ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21969	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a question for Mr Rasim Ljajic and Mr Svetozar Chiplic. The issue and suggestions concern the relocation of Belgrade Roma. It has obviously become a delicate problem, which causes unnecessary tensions and conflicts among citizens. I'm going to bring up the Obrenovac case. Obrenovac municipality decided to place 20 containers for displaced Roma in a location called "Grebaca", in the village of Zvečka, without having previously consulted citizens, there was no public debate or debate, it was not redistributed to several local communities. They decided overnight to pave one meadow, one ledge, and to say – there will be Roma, without any elemental conditions, without any infrastructure, with enormous pressure on the environment due to traffic, bus stations, supply, etc. That's not how you solve the problem. The Roma intend to put in the ghetto, on the reservation. There's even one dump, so they were planning on making Roma who will settle here a selection of secondary raw materials, turn into second-class citizens. I don't think that's just Belgrade's problem anymore, but the competent ministries and the whole of Serbia. I have one suggestion and a suggestion on how to solve it in a much more humane, humane way. Here's how. It's the Obrenovec case again. People at the top of the government in Obrenovac and at the head of some public enterprises saw power as an opportunity for personal wealth. They became the main builders, the main investors. It's an obvious conflict of interest. I don't mean the former or current president of the municipality, but first of all, people from two local associations who, of course, think in the interest of the citizens, and by the citizens mean themselves. Let them show solidarity and let them give one apartment in their buildings to one Roma family. Then we have another case, which could be a universal example. The urban mafia reigns in Belgrade's municipalities associated with urban services. I propose to Dragan Gilas to form a commission, because it will not be done by local inspections, but by the commission, only to determine how many in certain buildings it is, and I say that over 70%, more squares, past the allowed degree of construction, move into each of these buildings by one Roma family. This is much more honest, much more humane, and for people who have dealt with this illicit construction, with various modes, it can be taken as an extenuating circumstance when criminal proceedings are conducted against them. I've received further information from Minister Dacic for the Obrenovac that three criminal charges have been filed against an official of the Urbanist Department in Obrenovac for what I'm talking about. I immediately ask the Minister of Justice – what is the fate and many others previously filed criminal charges by the competent services, which are in drawers in the local prosecutor's office in Obrenovac? Let the Department of Justice, through the Republic Prosecutor's Office, request a report, and everyone will have something to see. I think it's one way to solve the problem of moving Roma families, and when the university is finished, it would be nice for local powerful people, or Serbian masters, oligarchs, to show solidarity again in their buildings and give one apartment for one Roma family; here are the solutions to the problem. Then the citizens of Zvečka wouldn't object, they wouldn't protest, they wouldn't find themselves hit and injured, but it would be nice and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21970	Thank you. Mr. Milos Radulovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21971	Madam President, I think the basic rule, when someone advertises the Rules of Procedure, is to first give a word to that MP. I'm advertising an article. 27, 85 and 100. Yesterday, at 1747, I asked you, while a direct transfer was taking place, when the recording of the delayed transfer of the Parliament's session would take place, at the time of the debate on very important laws, which are the law on state aid, the law on investment funds and the law on traffic insurance. At that moment, you are not, although you were responsible, the most responsible here to give notice to the citizens, gave that notice. I assume you slept at one o'clock a.m. The delayed footage leaves at one o'clock in the morning. This is another way of destroying the reputation of this House's highest legislative body. I am afraid that the threshold of tolerance and criteria when and under what conditions the transfers of this Parliament's sessions are interrupted are not getting any lower. I suppose you'll probably allow the National Service to be direct transfers and competitions in the hazena, in darts and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21972	Mr. Radulovic, neither I nor anyone from the presidency has found out, before I gave my word to Mr. Batić, that you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, that wasn't trendy. We just haven't seen you. The moment I saw you, I made it clear that you would get your word as soon as Mr. Batic finished. In fact, you are not talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have misused the notification, given the fact that article 100 provides that the MP has the right to orally indicate a breach in the conduct of the National Assembly President, or the chairman, if he considers that it is not in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and as you know, this Rules of Procedure do not regulate the time of transposition, and on several occasions we have explained that we are under the obligation to provide the public with work, which does not always mean direct transfers, but also delayed transfers. It is also very important that I read to you this part that says that the injuries of the Rules of Procedure refer to what was done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it is immediately after the injury has been done. Therefore, you have abused the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so anymore. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Since you answered the questions, first Mr. Riza Halimi. Mr. Halimi, you'll only press this middle button once. Sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask Mr. Obradovic about the threatened rights of Albanians to higher education. In fact, the government currently has a firm view of non-recognition of the University of Pristina diploma. In fact, most of the University of Tirana and Tet's diplomas are failing to nostifify. While at universities in Serbia, Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad there are no students from this area, Albanians from the Presevo Valley were announced last year by the minister of education and the president of the Co-ordination Body that they will be opened in Presevo and Bujanovac legal and economic colleges, in fact, cut off these colleges from the University of Nis. However, as we are now in June, when the time comes to enroll students and nothing, absolutely no practical preparations have been made, it means that this academic year will also be without enrolment and opportunity for young people from this area to study in a public institution in this country. Given that this is a very serious, very sensitive issue, because this does not allow for any perspective for young people in this area, so this interrupts the drastically, artificially, inflow of new personnel, not only to prevent employment, employment of young people, but to close the inflow of new professional personnel, then neither the laws we adopt – and on economic development and from all other areas of life, they have no meaning for this area, because there are no new personnel, new professional personnel are not coming in, when young people are being prevented from preparing themselves, to be educated, based on a particular constitution, law, and international conventions. Since it's a really sensitive issue, it's not just a matter of the Ministry, because I asked the Ministry of Education a more detailed question about educational workers' licenses, those who started working, and for 10 years they haven't had the opportunity to pass a professional exam and get a work license. Since this far simpler job, the Ministry still fails to resolve, this about higher education is a more serious problem and therefore it should not only be the Ministry, but also the Government and the Assembly to deal with it more seriously, to approach these sensitive problems more seriously, of course, when it is time, and not according to that logic – to create after the palitative, artificial organs, in order to solve the troubled situation. Not to go any further, I think this is a place for MPs to be familiar with a very sensitive situation, a dramatic situation, which threatens to escalate into serious problems and in the political sphere, so it is high time we deal with these sensitive problems seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21974	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21975	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to request a notice, within the meaning of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure, of the Government, of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, of the Ministry of Finance, of the Ministry of Justice, and that, and when to be abolished, they will put outside the power of the illegal and non-constitutional regulation, of the regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the protection of the part of the undertaking, which is based on the territory of the former SFRY Republic? These are the regulations that have been adopted since June 2008, until the end of May 2009. This Regulation determines that the transfer of property rights to real estate owned by legal persons whose head office is located in the territory of the former Republic of the SFRY may be transferred to a new user, i.e. a temporary user, without any legal work, which is settled in such a way as to oblige the temporary user and the rightful owner, therefore, a foreign legal person from the former SFRY, to conclude within a certain period of time a property-law agreement on how that property will be shared between them. According to this Article of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation, a new institution is established to transfer ownership rights which our positive regulations do not know. In this way, the competent authorities are required to carry out the transfer of ownership rights without any legal work being concluded; it is sufficient only that the legal business has not been concluded. This is contrary to the positive regulations, the Law on Fundamental Property-Laws, the Law on Transport of immovableity, the Law on Liabilities, and, if contrary to the law, those Regulations are contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitution provides that the laws must always comply with the provisions of the Constitution. These regulations are contrary and ratified to the International Agreement on Succession, which was concluded between the former republics of the SFRY, because, contrary to the provisions of that law, the law is now, because as soon as it is ratified, the international treaty becomes part of the legal order of the Serbian state, so it is contrary to that law and the law has primate in relation to domestic regulations. These regulations also have concrete consequences, and the issue is that domestic legal entities have bought from the company Borovo real estate, in particular 25 business premises in Serbia. They paid those business premises, paid taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. They also got the consent of both the justice ministry and the finance ministry and the economy ministry, the legal work was completely legal. However, they cannot own these bars, these properties. Otherwise, in addition to those regulations adopted by non-constitutional and illegal regulations, the Government has duly reached conclusions, which it has forwarded through the Ministry of Justice, courts, which are required by courts to stop in all proceedings where there is and the procedure for determining any right between a domestic legal entity and a company whose seats are located in the territory of the former SFRY. These domestic legal entities that were registered as legal owners, as a consequence, had the consequence that they could not exercise their right to take over these business premises in possession. Thus, in this way, the government directly influenced the executive, judicial authority, courts, and also made it impossible for our domestic legal persons, who had acquired property from the Borov, to take over the property. My question is - when will the government, or the competent ministries, lift these regulations? So, not if they will, but when will they abolish these regulations?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21976	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21977	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the KIM Minister urged Serbs and the management of municipalities in the north of KiM on Monday to co-operate with the EULEX mission, reminding us that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given its consent to deploying the Eulex mission to the entire territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and warning us that it is impossible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to make one decision, and local self-government in KIM is different. Once again, I will remind the citizens of Serbia, you, gentlemen of the MPs, and the KIM Ministry, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made such a decision without a decision from the Serbian Parliament and despite a petition of about 56,000 Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM that the Eulex mission should not be accepted, because it will not be status neutral, but will implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. The government made the decision it made, and gave guarantees to Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM that the Eulex mission would be status neutral and that it would implement a six-point plan for Belgrade -- Ban Ki Moon. Serbs and non-Albanians accepted the mission's deployment in the entire AP KIM territory, just so they wouldn't be against the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia, although the decision was made at our expense. Since the Eulex mission does not implement the six-point plan in Belgrade – Ban Ki Moon, it does not intend to, but rather carries out activities aimed at installing customs duties and charging customs duties at administrative crossings in Brnjak and Jarinj, while implementing the Ahtisaari plan, for us Serbs and non-Albanians it is unacceptable, because customs is an attribute of statehood, and we do not intend to live in an independent state of Kosovo. As the KIM minister warned Serbs and non-Albanians and local self-governments in KIM to co-operate with the Eulex mission with a slightly threatening tone, I ask the KIM minister two questions. Do you, Mr. Minister and your ministry, intend to co-operate with Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM, to participate with us in making important decisions to preserve the southern province, since you have not done so so far? The second question, will you coordinate the decisions of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government in KIM, so that they do not differ, and to the benefit of all of us, start serious negotiations on the implementation of six points in Belgrade -- Ban Ki Moon, or will you continue to co-operate only with the Eulex mission, to the detriment of Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM? Since I have a little time left, Madam President, I'm going to ask you a question. On 9 April 2009, exactly 60 days ago, I asked the question of the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skundric. Until today, I did not get an answer, although I repeated it at a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I ask you – are the members of the Government also obliged to comply with the business provisions by individual members, or are they only the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? You, for not implementing the Rules of Procedure, make sentences and warnings. What will be the sanctioned Minister of Energy, given that 60 days did not answer my question?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21978	A number of government members did not respond, and we updated, or asked to respond again. This will now be an opportunity for another emergency, both mine and our joint, assembly, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of questions, Madam President, you said that you would urinate to get an answer to the question – what about the 2001 law on the property of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, which was to be distributed, 50%, to all parliamentary parties? There are, too, many months and I haven't gotten an answer yet, so I'd remind you to pawn your authority to get it. First of all, today I intend to ask the Ministry of Justice, the Government, but also the ruling majority - what is this doing with this country? We are aware that in recent days, a hack has been rerun against some journalists, allegedly war-wreckers, and they are digging up and pulling things up again, so that all those who took part in the defence of the SRJ, now Serbia, will be made aware that this is forbidden and will one day be held accountable. First of all, that campaign was launched by the Radio "Free Europe". If we look at what the "Free Europe" was doing, we'll be absolutely clear. It's an institution funded by the Central Intelligence Agency, or a shortened CIA, founded by Frank Wisner, among other things, and one of the founders of the CIA. What is the problem with the campaign against our journalists, it also triggered this special prosecutor's office, headed by Bruno Vekaric. The question arises – how does it come to mind that Bruno Vekaric should start this when it comes to Serbian journalists? We had a chance to see yesterday, on one show, and Mrs. Balletic, who was told by those from the Radio "Free Europe" that in 2007, she worked on the TV "Most", whose owner is a prominent SPS functioner, at a time when you were not in the coalition with the "yellows". I guess if a journalist is convicted, then the owner will have to, too, it's perfectly normal, I guess it's affecting what his journalists are going to do. I ask the question, how is it that Bruno Vekaric does not think of trying at least to be objective, in a way that would allow him to show the world, including Serbia, that he is impartial, that he is not an ordinary servant, that he does not execute the orders of those who want to destroy Serbia, so, let's say, he has not raised any questions about journalists who have celebrated their lies when it comes to the Serbian people? Not only did they celebrate themselves, but they received extremely large and valuable world rewards for it. Just to remind you that Roy Gatman wrote in 1992 that Serbs had conquered northern Bosnia, and his sources were Ali – 63 years old and Meso – 53 years old. He won the Pulitzer Prize for this discovery. Let me remind you that a reporter named Penny Marshall in Trnopolje took pictures of an extremely thin man, and next to him were quite normal people, and that video served as evidence that the Serbs had established a concentration. That is why the UN imposed sanctions, among other things, on Serbia. James Harf, from Ruder Finn's agency, "found," "convinced" three Jewish organizations to make an ad in the New York Times to protest against the UN and indeed James Harf boasted that they were able to identify the Serbs in public opinion with the Nazis immediately afterwards. To remind you that at that time, Enrico Josif, otherwise one of the people who survived the Holocaust, claimed to be conducting a media genocide against Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21980	It's been five minutes. Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21981	Will you just let me finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21982	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21983	Also, John Burns of the New York Times won the Pulitzer Prize because he claimed that a Serb killed two Bosniaks from Vogosce. That Serb was shot, and after five years, those two brothers were found.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21984	Thank you. There are clear questions, but you've been talking for six minutes. Five minutes are scheduled. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Thank you for reminding us that the Assembly is again updating and uraging with all those ministers who have not given an answer within the usual time limit. Mrs. Tabakovic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21985	Before I ask a specific question, I no longer ask for the interpretation of what is written in the Rules of Procedure, and I am talking about Article 235, which regulates the right of the representatives of the parliamentary groups as president or the authorising officer to request, in one oral address, on Tuesday and Thursday, a notice relating to his work, means, I do not ask you to interpret the Rules of Procedure, because it is obvious that this interpretation goes from day to day, from case to case, but I ask you to establish Article 3 of Article 235, which says that order and word is given, starting from the representatives of the least group, to the greatest, and that makes it the chairman, by the registered representatives, once and for all – whether it is an electronic application, whether it is a written form of a form made up of you or the parliamentary groups individually, because I do not want the interpretation in the presidency, in which we are concerned by the people who are involved in the matter of which we are in which we are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21986	Mrs. Tabakovic, please, I'll give you back your time, because this was advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21987	It's my right to ask for information on how to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21988	Both written and electronic; the largest number of representatives of the parliamentary groups checked in at the moment when we moved on to the realization of Article 235. On that occasion, you and Mr. Ilic were gone. Therefore, those who were then registered both electronically and in writing were called in order, in accordance with Article 3(3). You signed up a few minutes ago, and that's why Mr. Todorovic got his word before you did. In the meantime, Mr Ilic came, and that would mean – as anyone comes and logs in, that we give him a word if it belongs to a smaller group of MPs. I think I'm correctly interpreting this Rules of Procedure. Please understand that. Now I'll give you your time back to the beginning, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21989	I'm sorry, I'm not asking for an interpretation, I'm asking you to specify your login, because – do you have five logged in on your screen, so the sixth jumps off the screen or not, we don't see it on any screen. Please understand, Mr. Todorovic's word, I absolutely don't mind, on the contrary, I am pleased by the questions he has asked, but in order to be able to respect order, that order must be established unequivocally. I'll use my right to ask the question again to ask you. Yesterday you informed us that the transmission would be interrupted at 1750 hours and that you would share it with us, that you would have information about when the transfer would be delayed. We advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, saying we couldn't ask for time when it would be broadcast, but that you could. In this way, I would like to say that Radulovic was right when he advertised Article 27, because you should ask, and on the basis of the following sentence, we are getting questions from citizens, who say, "Can we know when the transfer of the Assembly will be broadcast, not because of Radulovic, and because of Jorgovanka, but because the public of the work of this assembly does not mean recording the course of the session, but the broadcast of the course of the session at the time announced to those for which the public is established?" Please, I speak Serbian, I don't complain, I don't ask for an explanation, it's not defined. If, in the public service, you mean recording, and not when he's going to watch the one who's interested in this, I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21990	The answer to this question was received by Mr Radulovic, and he would be identical – a business obligation for direct transfers is not regulated. Our public service would be correct to let us know when the delayed footage will be broadcast. I'm asking them to, but we don't have a contractual relationship where they're obliged to inform us, they're doing it in accordance with their programming schemes. Therefore, when we have a congregation channel, we will be able, in a way that is very correct, to suggest all of you, to ensure the public in the work of Parliament. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21991	I wanted to ask the prime minister one question, to which I repeatedly asked for an answer, and I never got one – how did the debt of three billion euros to the IMF occur? What study was done for these funds? How will the distribution of these funds be made, and who will make the distribution? How are we going to have control of those funds that are in charge? It's a big number of three billion. Did this come with a shortcut, without ratification in the Serbian Parliament, because it is not ratified, we are not informed, and all banks, all financial institutions outside did not want to release any credit lines without ratification in parliament? Is it a service for Kosovo to enter the IMF and Serbia to keep it quiet? These days, it is said intensively that Kosovo, retailes, has already entered the IMF and will be able to use IMF funds. Is this an indirect recognition of an independent Kosovo, as we have done by accepting the small door of Ahtisaari's plan and, additional to this -- what about the six points that have been amended in Ahtisaari's plan for Eulex to enter Kosovo? What happened to those six dots? Who ratified them, who approved them, and was any of those six points accepted by the Security Council by the United Nations? I'm sure he didn't. Totally, Ahtisaari's plan was implemented in Kosovo. I repeat the question - three billion euros in debt to the state, and nothing, practically, is covered by the stability of the Serbian economy. What businesses? Who's he gonna give himself to? Who are the beneficiaries of these funds, and is there a possibility that the prime minister will ensure that at least twice a year the National Bank of Serbia submits a report to this Parliament on its work and on the state of the funds, the state of the foreign reserve, where they are located, in which banks, how, under what conditions and in what way? We don't have any information on that. The National Bank of Serbia completely ripped off parliament. The Governor of Serbia has never honored us to come here to say anything, simply do what he wants and see him on TV when he makes his statements, only with party markings. Who stands behind the governor, who helps him in this job and how does he do his jobs without consulting the Serbian Parliament? Again, the most important thing is whether the three billion euros, injected at the small door in Serbia, are the services for entering the IMF of an independent Kosovo, as this is widely discussed? Pristina keeps saying that they are on the threshold, that there are only some minor formalities and that it will be announced very soon that Kosovo has been admitted into the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21992	I thank you for asking, and it will be forwarded to the government and the resolution ministers. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Nikola Lazic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session to be attended by Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. They're in the building, and I expect them to show up any minute now. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Associations (Principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the SRS – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak only once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Sasa Dujovic – MEP SPS-JS, MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic – MEP G17 plus, MP Zoran Shami – Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Sladjan Mijaljević – SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister. Just sign in. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21993	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone because it doesn't work in these seats for MPs, or there's no card, so that we don't waste time and wait for the card to come, I'll turn from this pay phone. This is the fifth draft association law since 2000. We had it in 2001, 2006, 2007 and 2008. So, the fifth bill of law that we are trying to achieve freedom of association in our country in a way that is necessary, necessary, in accordance with all the highest standards that exist in developed European democracies. I explained this bill six months ago in the Serbian Parliament, and I don't think there's a need to explain it widely now, because we're going to have, in the end, an opportunity to discuss individual solutions through the debate. What I would point out as the most important thing in this bill is that we have fully liberalised the system of establishment of the Association of Citizens. This is the freedom available to every citizen of ours; three natural or legal persons are enough to create an association of citizens. Another important change and important thing is that the association does not have to register with the competent authority. Anyone can freely join in, act as an association of citizens, but it requires registration to have a legal personality. Any person who does not need a legal personality does not have to register with the competent national authority. The third important thing is that the competent state authority cannot appreciate the purpose, the integrity of that enrolment. It's the so-called. the method of reporting, he only registers with the competent authority. The state authority may refuse to register it only in legally prescribed cases, which have been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Only the Constitution, as the highest legal act, has imposed restrictions and the law fully respects those restrictions. Therefore, it does not extend the list of restrictions on the establishment or operation of the Association of Citizens. The association, in addition to full-time natural and legal persons, can establish minors. It's an old practice in our country, from the time of SFRY; children were able to start associations, so they exist in alliances of scouts, scouts' alliances, scouts' alliances, mountaines, etc. NGOs, or citizens' associations today, have tens of thousands in Serbia. They're being held in two registers. One register is in the MUP, the other is in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. After the adoption of this law, there will be only one registry. Registration will take place at the Agency for Business Registers, as a public agency which, in addition to business registration of business entities, under the law established, can carry out other jobs, registration of other entities. We felt that it was comprehensive, efficient, economical to use the resources of what already exists and that, in this way, the first-degree registration was run by the Agency for Economic Registers, by being a entrusted business of the state administration, and that the supervision of this job was maintained by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The second-degree body is the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. All sub-legislative acts are also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and this decision that the Agency for Business Registers is to run this register should be understood as a technical issue, nothing beyond that. I have repeatedly said that this is also one of our obligations, international ones, but we are not doing this because it is our obligation to join the Council of Europe. Of course, and that's a good reason to do something, because when we take a commitment, we have to fulfill it; we would be unserious if we were to act differently. So, not only is this an international obligation, but because we want to provide our citizens with the freedom of association according to the highest European standards. On the other hand, although we liberalise the establishment and operation of the association, we also impose rather clear elements of control over this work. I think it's a full interest not only of the state, but of the associations. In our immediate past, and even today, many associations of citizens have been subject to various suspicions, different accusations. The most common question was who financed who, of whom he worked. This time, the question will not have to be asked that way, but it will be quite clear who is funding who. All sources of funding are completely transparent. If he gets money from abroad, he's doing it according to a law that regulates payment traffic with abroad. What was another of the specificities of our current structures is that foreign associations' representations worked here, practically, based on some certificate issued by the Foreign Ministry. That area was completely unregulated. This law also undermines the representations of foreign associations under the same legal regime as domestic associations, which means that in terms of state control and the procedure, above all, in the material business, domestic associations will, therefore, be in line with our legal order. I expect the National Assembly to support this law. I expect that from the parties that did the government and in the previous assembly, because this law, with its basic elements, came about in 2006, so I'm a little surprised by some amendments, but we'll have a chance to talk about it. So, since 2006, we've kept this concept. As far as the association's assets are concerned, it's a subject that's often being set up. We have not defined ourselves as the principle of justice – which the association has acquired by its own work, let it remain in the association, which has not been acquired by its own work, it is social property, which will become state-owned. It's fair and I think it's easy for everyone to prove what they got by a gift, what they got by their own actions, what they inherited, and everything they didn't, it's a social property, and this law will turn them into a state property regime. I hope that we will have a constructive debate and that the MPs will support this law on associations. I'm sure this law will speed up the association of our citizens, because it's not just associations that deal with human rights, although I find them very important and useful in every society. Many people are interested in associations. Most of the 30,000 associations have nothing to do with politics. These are people who deal with issues that they consider important, to achieve some of their own, but also common goals that are related to environmental protection, and to the protection of persons with disabilities, and to protect vulnerable groups and many other issues, practically, all those issues that we face in everyday life, which are, in fact, outside the policy domain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21994	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Committee on Justice and the Administration and the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Mr Momo Colakovic first called among representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21995	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry and the Government, the MPs, the PUPS Group, supported this law in December and we remain in the evaluations and attitudes that we have given at the time. This means that our parliamentary group is supporting the law. In December, we made several amendments, several of which were accepted, embedded in this bill. Also, some of the ideas we gave back then are embedded in this consolidated text that we received for this session and we thank the minister and his associates for that. With regard to the importance of this law, there is no special need to speak, but to point out, we have about 2,500 pension organizations, we have about 170 associations and alliances. We think it is very important to ensure that the offices of relations between people, citizens who organise themselves to achieve their and common objectives and tasks. I would point out the importance of this law and because our pension organisations, as well as other humanitarian organisations, are dealing with, above all, humanitarian activity, solidarity and social problems. In this regard, we welcome the solutions offered, that these associations can be engaged, in addition to activities related to the regulation of relations between citizens, and other issues such as health services, the possibility of craft services, etc. Why do we support this law? I'll just look back on a few important questions. First, what we had discussed with the Ministry in December is that there are no unions here. This should also be undermined by the fact that we've been spoken to several times by union organizations and alliances, that we know it precisely. If necessary, the trade unions, in agreement with the ministry and the government, will agree whether there is a need for issues on the organisation of the trade unions to be governed by a special law. In that sense, we welcome the Ministry's position. Secondly, it's very important for us that all associations register. It was formerly with the Ministry, and the current solution, according to my assessment, is in line with government measures related to rationalisation, savings. That, too, we welcome. The third thing that matters, in our opinion, is the question of the activities of the association. It is very important that it is possible for associations, in addition to the activities for which they are organised, to enable the activities that must be incorporated into the statutes of each association, related to activity and in social areas, on social issues, on a smaller scale, for their members and their associations, such as heating, winter, etc., some services, hospitality, etc. Fourthly, we think it is very good that this law specifies the possibility of funding certain programmes of the Association of Citizens from the Republic of Serbia's budget and, in particular, from the budget of local self-government. In earlier times, at least PUPS MPs, we had all associations and organisations on the budgets of local self-government and on the budget of the Republic. Since 2000, these associations have not been on the budget. We think it's very good and therefore we welcome the regulation that is precise in the law. We also think it's very good, that's the last question, the regulated property issue, both the one acquired, what the minister was talking about, the funds of the association and others, and how the issue of using the property is regulated. Anyway, what we're tracking, the property is state-owned, is used by associations. Local self-government rights are transferred to regulate the issue and they are authorised to dispose of the property. However, it is very good, and it needs our organizations to know that those who have found themselves in that property continue to use the right as long as they exist. That's very important to us. For these reasons and many others, the PUPS will vote for this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21996	Thank you. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21997	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, respected representatives from the Serbian government, the draft association law is in front of the MPs for the fifth time, with the serious intention of proposing that more order be introduced into this area of social life for citizens and their right to association, that this area is finally really regulated. The importance of this law is unnecessarily speaking. The association of citizens with their own free will, in order to realise and realise their ideas, is one of the foundations of democracy and the fluids of every democratic society. On the previous proposal for a law on association, the SPS-JS Parliament Club has tabled several amendments, with the aim of improving the proposal for a legal solution. We were very pleased to find that the promoter accepted and included our two amendments in the new Association Act. However, this bill, as before, has several solutions that cannot be considered to be best and applicable in practice. It is therefore extremely necessary to clarify this. At the very beginning of the Proposal for a Law on Associations, the Proposer fully equalises trade unions with other associations of citizens. The application of the Association Act to trade unions would have inconceivable consequences, start with the registration in the register, and the new proposal completely amends the registration procedure and determines the other body in relation to the solutions so far. The proposal for this law gives the impression that this is deliberately done by trade unions, although it is contrary to all international regulations defining the position and role of the union. All the conventions of the International Labour Organization related to this matter have been ratified by our country. This law will only allow the creation of hundreds and thousands of NGOs. According to the Labour Act, the registry of trade union organisations is being conducted at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and under this bill, the Agency for Economic Registers will be doing so in the future, while the second-degree body would be the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, not the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We believe that the proposed solution is not good, because the union is an organization related exclusively to the world of work. Given this, it is clear that the union is an organisation of employees, and as such an organisation cannot be classified as an association. Trade unions protect workers' rights from labour obligations, which is one of the basic constitutional rights of every citizen. We hope that the proposer will consider the position of the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Serbia and the amendment that we have submitted as the SPS-JS Parliament Club, and will respect our opinion that the unions should be deleted from the competences of the Association Act. Unfortunately, the promoter also remained on earlier proposals related to the number of founders of the association. In fact, Articles 10. The proposal still stands for a proposal of three founders, which we believe to be a small number, and that a large number of MPs could be observed and the number of founders could be increased. Also, we find it unacceptable that underage persons of only 14 years of age can be the founders of the association. Such a legal solution can be the way to serious child abuse. Several solutions to this proposal of the Association Act deserve commendation, so we would single out Article 22(5), where it is possible for the Assembly of the Association, its statutes and acts to allow, or transfer, its powers to other bodies and associations. A commendable solution is also provided for in Article 36(2), where legal and natural persons are allowed to be properly exempt from tax obligations, in accordance with a law introducing appropriate public revenues, provided that the association is assisted in order to implement the statute of intended objectives. The draft law on associations introduces one newspaper. It is funding through projects of a large number of associations that are classified in associations of public interest. We would especially point out here that in associations of particular interest they are classified in associations dealing with martial law, which we are particularly pleased with. The SPS-JS Parliament Club also considers the process of registering the association, which moves from the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the MUP to the responsibility of the Agency for Economic Registers. This is a very bad solution, although the proponent in the explanation makes arguments for such a procedure, and that the basis for such a solution was found in the Law on State Administration. We believe it is very important that the solution so far relating to the registration of the association be united at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which has been fully qualified to run an association registrar, and there is no negligible fact of great experience in the service within the Ministry which has so far dealt with this job. If some associations want to deal with economic activity, it will provide for the establishment of its business entities and manage them through its bodies, which, as its founder, will set up and control, all of which will, in that case, be registered with the Agency for Economic Registers. Such a registered economic operator could focus its economic activity on achieving the objectives and statutes of its founder, which are individual associations. The SPS-JS Parliament Club has also tabled several amendments to the Association Law. Amendments to Article 2 have been tabled requiring the erasure of the words ''s trade union' from the association to which this law applies, Article 80, which requires the property used by many social organisations to be the property of these social organisations, i.e. associations, and Article 81, which requires the procedure for determining ownership of the work and the entire property, according to the case of the Republic of Serbia, which, under this proposal, intends to convert the property of social organisations into state organisations, and then to move the dispute before the court. We hope that the promoter will seriously consider these amendments, read them carefully and adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21998	Thank you. Who calls from the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u21999	Listening to the minister's statement, we saw that there were five attempts in a short period, five laws that came to Parliament and were constantly changing. It means something's wrong. This law is wrong, and it won't last long, so we'll probably have another debate next year about the new law on associations. What's the point of the whole story? We want to make a good law, which will last longer than a law that will be able to abuse itself multiple times and as soon as those abuses are observed, changes immediately by some new law. I can't reconcile with the fact that associations can make underage children, children over the age of 14, with the consent of parents. It's child abuse, I find that impossible and we disagree. Look only in the founding act, one underage child can make an association with two foreigners, and it can be a citizen of Serbia. How will parents answer for that? What's gonna happen here? There will be a series of abuses. It is possible that two citizens of foreign states, with one of our minors, are building an association that will cause a number of problems in Serbia itself. That's not right. Another thing that is very important, these associations have always been used to get some media support, to mine and destroy certain work by state or some other institutions. It is very easy to use various associations of three members, if they have the support of some media in Serbia, to fully undermine the work of some important institutions. Let's just take associations that are now beginning to niche across Serbia, which are attacking the Serbian Orthodox Church, on certain dignitaries of the SPC, on certain institutions. I remember, from previous periods, associations that had no basis for having received large credits to build a freezer. People got together, made a freezer, now they're chasing, who's gonna pay for it, what way, or some other investment that took place, and now we don't have a chance to regulate it. I think that through these associations, which can be misused, media attacks on certain individuals can be done; that story is very important. We remember various associations that were receiving space on large televisions and which were mined by certain projects. I remember the concession, when, for God's sake, some association, two or three citizens find someone and come out, they're looking for something that's against the law, but they're allowed enough space, and then the public gets upset and there's all kinds of problems. We've been listening recently, I haven't even been able to replicate a minister here, who, based on the association and their opinions, has eliminated the thing he ran and the contract that his Ministry of Finance rules. For God's sake, he said, "You know, citizens react." What citizens? There's one in the association that finds two others and builds an association. Of course, we provide them with a space on B92, go to Insider or Polygraph, then a certain story begins that it revolves with Serbia, and then we get more and more involved in these stories and we completely mine certain projects. Penalties are extremely strict. If we take one minor and two foreigners, people who are not Serbian citizens, create an association, and a parent, who is consciously -- unwittingly signed something, has great penalties to pay, etc. Then, these strict criminal provisions create a problem by legally sanctioning various associations, they will go to creative people, who can go to good associations, if there are more associates, to make better effects. So, all those who want to work on a project, on some job, they're gonna come out of this story, and that's how we're gonna drive them away. Another thing that isn't regulated, donations. It's said to be freed and not necessary. If it is the regime that will abuse a particular association, it will urinate to release certain obligations, if it is not, it will collect a certain obligation. Let's just take how many associations paid the VAT, with a promise that it would come back, and for years nothing worked on it. We only remember the Association for Denationalisation, which was completely devalued and destroyed, and had good intentions to protect certain private assets of citizens. We covered them with various other associations that had three members, and they completely mined one good intention of a strong association. The people of amateurs are in the association and, I repeat, the sentences are quite large, so we're going to remove them creative, simply, from this form of association. Then, many funds will be identified for various associations that have good intentions, but we will have major problems if we do not release all associations of these obligations to the state. Therefore, we cannot say – we will try to fix it with amendments, and how much we will succeed, we will see, because the ruling coalition, as it always does, will vote for it and vote and we will have one bad law on associations again. As it was last year, I hope we'll do it next year. We always abuse certain associations for political purposes. Those who do not comply with the ruling coalition policy will be removed, destroyed, sanctioned, and those who do a certain job will remain and will be provided with certain funds, so many good projects will be mined and many attempts to bring something into order in this country will be corrected. It is particularly incomprehensible that children will be abused, I wish it were not so, and for political purposes, and in order to bring down certain projects and certain institutions. We have had an example these days, an attack on the Serbian Orthodox Church, where even children have been abused, unconsciously, attacking the dignitaries of the Serbian Orthodox Church who are intruding in certain places, to God, European and some of our ruling institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22000	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22001	On behalf of the G17 Plus Party, I would like to say that we are happy to support this law. My opinion differs greatly from what we just heard, because I believe that freedom of association is one of the basic human freedoms and rights and that modern, developed democratic society must be based on the freedom of association and on the functioning of the association, which absolutely contributes to its development and, I would say, are one of the basic conditions of its development. Do we need associations when we already have a state? That's, I think, the question that's being asked here. I'll answer the question. Can the state do exactly what it takes and can the state meet all the needs of the citizens? In 1776, Thomas Payne said this way – the society is the product of our desires, and the state is the product of our faults. ''The society encourages our happiness, positively equating our feelings, and the state, negatively limiting differences. Society protects, the state punishes. '"It's one of the possible views of the attitude of state and society. In this context, NGOs and associations of citizens are representatives of civil society, although civil society is a broader concept than associations and NGOs, which we will talk about today. I want to give a brief review of how civil society and the NGOs and citizens' associations have developed in Serbia. It's no newspaper and it's no product of modern times. These attitudes are the result of delusions, prejudices, and, I would say, a great deal of ignorance. There is already a very long tradition of association between citizens in Serbia and it encourages, I can say, from a long time ago. In the 17th and 18th centuries there were significant associations of citizens, and they were largely religious associations in that period, but also various types of partners, various types of association, which were known as mobs, responsibilities, legates. So there is a rich tradition in our society that citizens join together to contribute to the development of society. Of course, humanitarian organisations should not be forgotten, because they were always very prominent, they played a very prominent role in our society. I want to say that Serbia still had a law on freedom of association in 1881. It's something that I think should be highlighted and respected at this point, because far from being the first law to speak of freedom of association. So, back in 1881, we had such a law, which, I must say, also regulated the freedom of association in Serbia. The law then regulated some status issues, registration of the association; it was carried out in the city's administration of the city of Belgrade, and the final authorisation was given by the interior minister. That law also regulates the principles of the work of the association, just as we are now trying to do. As far as the term is concerned, NGOs, which have caused a lot of controversy in our society in the last 10, 15 years, and 20 years, given that there are numerous prejudices about NGOs, I would also like to say that the term "non-governmental organisations" in our society is not new and that it is still mentioned in 1874 in the Serbian vote, which was called "The Voice of the Public". As far as recent history is concerned, of course there were associations of citizens at that time, and after 1945, unfortunately, a large number of associations were shut down and their assets were confiscated; here, above all, I am talking about various legions and foundations, but at that time the hobby associations, sports associations and, of course, social organisations were encouraged, as they were then called, which were engaged in some activities that were useful to society. This period should not be taken as something of reputation, since at that time the freedom of association was largely limited, by the fact that associations were only able to deal with some types of activity, and that no political action and influence on policymaking at the time was possible; if they had any connotation of the protection of human rights or, possibly, some political freedoms, associations were banned and shut down. I believe that, to a large extent, our impatience stems from that period, so to speak, both the sight and the mistrust of the association of citizens who are not strictly controlled by the state. The very freedom of association is just the opposite of state control of association. After that period, in the 1980s, the awakening of freedom of association began, in the form of various integrations, primarily a group of intellectuals, who joined together to promote human freedoms and rights, above all, political freedoms at the time. These were mainly civil initiatives that represented the introduction to multilateralism, which began, as we all remember, in the 1990s. In the 1990s, the NGO, or association of citizens, characterized, above all, strong resistance to the regime of the time, the fight for human rights. The work of peace and humanitarian organisations that provided the necessary assistance to the impoverished population was then highlighted. After 2000, we can say that the NGO's civil sector is active in Serbia, that it has attempts to partner with the state, but also that it is characterised by a rather weak structure. As for what the situation is today, firstly, it should be said that NGOs and citizens' associations operate in conditions where there is no adequate legal framework. So, the legal framework, as Mr. Minister mentioned, is obsolete and dysfunctional and does not meet the needs of today's situation in the NGO sector. As I said, the NGO today also characterizes a weak structure, bad connection and communication, even each other, there are no roof umbrella organizations, or very few. On the other hand, it is characterized by a fairly uniform value framework, a system of values; most of the associations that work today in Serbia and which we call NGOs have fundamental values, traditional values of Serbian, but also European values, which are also social inclusion, the development of democracy and advocacy for human rights. In 1995 there were 174 NGOs in Serbia, and in 2005 there were 1935. This speaks of the strong dynamics of civil sector development and a sharp increase in the number of associations in the last decade. According to some research that can be trusted, 47.1% of citizens are members of an association of citizens. If trade unions and political parties are excluded, 32.7% of citizens still belong to various types of association. I think this is a respectable figure, given that a third of Serbia's citizens are participating in the work of an association and a third of Serbia's citizens are interested in joining and acting together in achieving a goal. It's a fact that obliges us to do our part of the job, and the first step in that is this law, the adoption of a legal framework. The NGO has its weaknesses. As he recognized himself in one study, as his weaknesses he recognized elitism, and the existence of organisations that are those man show, too, a large part, and one phenomenon that we all need to think about together, both the NGO and the political parties, which is a possible politicisation of some associations of citizens. I think it's a complete destruction of the concept of association between citizens and the concept of civil and civil society when parties, or parties, are trying to have their own NGOs, which is not, I would say, so rarely in Serbia. I think it's a danger that, at a time when we are actively developing civil society, there should be something we should be very careful about. This is where I appeal to all actors, both citizens' associations and political parties, state and various institutions, to take care of it. There are many delusions about NGOs and associations of citizens, but I have already said why it is necessary that they exist, not only because of the freedom of association, which is one of the basic and guaranteed freedoms, and by all international standards, and by our constitution, but also because the state is not able, however rich, arranged and modern, to meet all needs itself and to be fully functional in all aspects. It's something that's been recognized by all modern states. So the state has to share responsibility with its citizens, and one way is to bring together citizens and the possibility to act in order to achieve their interests. In Serbia, NGOs, i.e. citizens' associations, mainly work in the field of social protection, poverty reduction, education, health, sustainable development, environmental protection, human rights, but also very prominent are various peace organisations and movements. What role does civil society, i.e. citizens' associations in Serbia, play today? This, above all, should be a part of policymaking, unlike those who believe that citizens' associations should only be involved in certain humanitarian activities. I want to make it clear that citizens' associations should participate in policymaking. The state has no monopoly on policymaking, citizens are there to correct the state and that, at a time when it creates its policies, actively participate and contribute to it. So it's an absolute delusion that the non-governmental sector should stay away from politics; that's the concept from the post-World War II that I was talking about. A very important, second option of action and other practice of the functioning of the NGO sector is the translation of policies into practice, especially in the period when we are all aware that many of our laws do not find practical application and that further engagement of all our country's resources is needed in order to translate the laws into practice. I think it is an area where a significant contribution and a significant partnership should be achieved with the NGO sector. Of course, the non-governmental sector should also give constructive criticism to the authorities, but also work to raise awareness in society, awareness of a significant problem or a problem that needs to become recognizable. Also, the non-governmental sector, i.e. citizens' associations, should be and can be a direct provider of services in various areas, such as social protection. Comparative advantages of the association of citizens in relation to the institutions of the state are, above all, their flexibility, the fact that they are closer to the needs of citizens, so they act directly in their environment, in the neighbourhood, in the local community, in the local community, and recognise the direct needs of a particular group of citizens; decision-making in associations of citizens is much faster, more efficient, without administrative procedures. Also, most of those who join in NGOs have some modern knowledge and skillful use of modern technologies, are trained to join European funds, which in my opinion is a great advantage when it comes to the development of local communities. We talked about regionalization a few days ago. I want to say that in poor and away from Belgrade, parts of Serbia are quite low in capacity and resources and what must be done – that is to use all resources. The experience of Italy, for example, shows that it was incomparably faster to develop those local communities, under equal conditions, of course, which used the resources of the NGO sector, because development is possible only with the use of all resources and partnerships of local communities with NGOs, i.e. with associations of citizens at the site, something that absolutely contributes to their development. What's the state supposed to do? The state must cultivate a partnership relationship with citizens' associations and what we first need to do – that is to pass this law, which has the history that we know it has. I hope that we will finally end the full debate now, not only in principle, and that we will break the practice that has existed so far, that something evil always happens when this law enters the assembly procedure. Croatia passed the law in 2001 and then 23 thousand associations were registered. The adoption of the legal framework encourages the functioning of the Association of Citizens. Of course, the state needs budgetary resources to direct citizens' associations' programmes, but also to include citizens' associations in developing strategies and laws. I want to say that we have very good examples of state co-operation with the non-governmental sector, above all, through the Social Innovation Fund, where a large number of projects have been initiated in the area of social protection, in partnership between local or state institutions and associations of citizens from the locals. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has a very good practice with people with disabilities associations, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which included in the development of a strategy of a large number of young people and associations of citizens, but also through a budget incentive enabled the implementation of their programmes. I would also like to highlight the good practice of our house – the Assembly, where we have introduced public listening practice, as a form and opportunity for citizens to come to the Assembly and through citizens' associations, through a large number of citizens, in one process of getting familiar with problems, to contribute to better legal solutions and better control of the application of the laws we make. I don't have much time, unfortunately, or lucky for you. This law brings many good things to previous legal solutions, which have many shortcomings. I won't talk about their shortcomings. Now I'm going to talk about the advantages of this law. I want to point out that it's very good to have the possibility of bringing children together. Respecting all standards and all possible protection of children's rights, according to the Convention on Children's Rights, one of their basic rights is participation, their participation in creating their own environment and creating their own life. Protection is provided by signing under the age of 14 his legal guardian or parent. In addition, children can team up with their own organizations to achieve some of their own interests. Of course, we have a restriction that it can only work in certain legal frameworks, which do not violate basic human rights and freedoms. So it's completely protected, and children are given the opportunity to team up and create their own environment. I would also point out the principle of volunteering in the register as a very modern solution. The fact is, it's only three faces enough to form an association. I want to highlight the example of Denmark, Italy and many other countries that have no limitations in the number of associations, in the number of those who form associations, or, say, France or Germany, for which there are enough two people, or two persons, to form an association. Three people – it is something that is fully acceptable to European standards and is fully in line with modern solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22002	Time, Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22003	All right, I'll be done. I'll be right there. You won't give me the right to say the weakness of the law. I think the basic weakness is property and we'll elaborate it when the amendments are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22004	End your mind, and that time goes on the expense of the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22005	You'll allow me, I'll use a few minutes of the MP's group. I would like to point out that we have worked in the Assembly with a large number of citizens' associations in order to address some of the problems of citizens and achieve the basic function of the Assembly, which are better quality legal solutions. I want to mention them – Association of Citizens "Long", from Ade; Association of Students with Handicap "Group 484"; Centre for the Rights of the Child; Centre for the Independent Life of Persons; Association of Paraplegics Leskovac; Autonomous Women's Center; Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies; Creative and Educational Center; Coalition of the Refugees Association in Serbia. I want to thank everyone for contributing, in cooperation with us, to some better legal solutions, to the benefit and well-being of all Serbian citizens. On behalf of all these associations, all the citizens they have helped, on behalf of all those who, with G17 plus share a vision of modern civil, democratic Serbia, I would like to say that we are pleased to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22006	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have your word. Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22007	There have already been four representatives of the parliamentary groups, so I think a little consideration is needed of what has been said. I can only thank Mr. Moma Colakovic for everything he said. The remarks they made on the previous bill were accepted, apparently, to mutual satisfaction. I want to say that this law is the same as it was six months ago, by including the objections that were then heard and which were then given in the form of amendments, which we thought were very useful and should be found as the basic text of this law. I am sorry that Mrs Plassic did not complete the presentation, but I hope that later we will discuss these issues related to the property, although, unlike the 2006 proposal, when everything became state property, all the social property that belonged to the association, became state-owned, we defined ourselves as the principle of justice, aware that there are so many hunters who gave their houses to their association, where we have associations that had property. You've said it nicely, since 1869, we've had a constitutional guarantee of freedom of association, and since 1881 we have the first law on freedom of association, we have associations from the late 19th century, a series of associations. We have defined ourselves as the principle of justice, in that it secretes what was obtained from its own work, donations, membership fees (you have a mass of associations that had high membership fees), gifts, or perhaps property from earlier, which will be settled by the law on denationalisation. It's hard to find the right measure when you have 30,000 very different subjects, with a different history. What we felt was not correct with the associations, it was the 2006 Association Act – that everything belongs to the state. I don't think that's really correct with associations, as it would be completely abnormal for us to now transfer all the social property used by the associations to the property of these associations. We need to understand the difference. Then we have defined ourselves for this principle of justice, which will have its reflection, at last, in an out-of-party procedure, if necessary, or, God forbid, in a litigation procedure, if any of that kind of problem arises. I thank you for everything you said earlier and thus contributed to this discussion. As for the presentation of MP Sasa Dujovic, there is no reason for your fear about the unions. It is precisely, as we have established with the PUPS Parliamentary Group, that it is very clear that religious organisations, political parties, trade unions, sports organisations, all those associations that are regulated by special laws, do not apply the provisions of this law to matter regulated by this special law, or to trade unions, since the Labour Act defines who is running their register, as they are established, etc., all this has been settled by that law. This law, like "the crown," is applied subsidically to all the elements in which this other law has not solved that question. I was asked by my colleague Obradovic for political parties, and my conclusion is that there are almost no provisions that would have been subsidized in any case, let's say, political parties, because the Law on political parties has resolved all the issues. There is no concern for the Alliance of Independent Unions or anyone else when it comes to the application of this law. There's no need for that kind of remark. As for the Agency for Economic Registers, trade unions will not be held at the Agency for Economic Registers, they are headed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This solution with the Agency for Business Registers, after a long discussion, discussions, checks, along with the people of the Agency for Business Registers, is an idea that has been accepted. The objection was, or the proposal came from the Council for Regulatory Reform. I'm saying, we've talked a lot, and we think the agency is really capable of doing this job effectively. We of that agency, in fact, need future laws to create a very specialised agency, which would run different types of registers for the needs of different state bodies. Why would the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, which is well equipped and capable? Don't forget that the Ministry only runs that part of the register that he took over from the federal level, that there's a huge amount of maybe 14 or 15 thousand associations currently running in the MUP. Why now would the Ministry of State Administration have to increase its capacities, employ new people, buy new techniques and run all of that, when we have an established agency, which has room to take even more work than it currently does? I repeat, the minister responsible for the tasks of the administration is bringing in sublegal acts under which the Agency, or registrar in the domain of the association, and the supervision of the tasks carried out by this law is at the Ministry of State Administration; at the same time we are a second-degree body, we decide by appeal, etc. I think that the idea with the APR should definitely be accepted as a technical question, who, technically, will carry out the job, according to very strict rules which, otherwise, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. As for Mr. Ilic's remarks, he left, I'm sorry, but there are colleagues, and this is again about Mr. Sasa Dujovic, the issue of minors was regulated in 1982, by law then. That's when minors had the right to team up. In addition, the issue has been regulated by Article 15 of the Charter, or the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We ratified that convention. They have children and must have the right to team up. We've only increased protection compared to the previous period since 1982, so far. We're looking for a certified statement from a legal representative. Don't forget that a 15-year-old child is able to work, that, as my esteemed colleague knows, a partially responsible 14-year-old child is like a younger minor. I think he's being treated like a younger minor, and he's 16 years old. I remember so much from my practice. But you're a mathematician, so I forgive you. In the end, I have to note that this solution is the same solution that then coalition partners, including Mr Ilic and the DSS, voted for in 2006, when this was proposed by Zoran Loncar, as minister, the same solution, and 2007, when I proposed the same solution, as in the coalition. So it's completely illogical that now, the DSS and New Serbia, you've changed your mind about the associations of minors, when it's identical to what Zoran Loncar wrote and proposed and what I wrote and proposed. The remarks are now being made by the minister who twice voted for the solution, to detail, to the point, to the point. This, of course, applies to Saša Dujovic, but I hope that this argument is sufficient for both the Convention and the fact that it has existed since 1982. Well, as a child, I was a member of the Boy Scouts, and he signed the same thing and teamed up. I didn't need any parental confirmation, which was a mistake, because at the time it was considered a good practice of socialist society and communist ideology, that the community should take over some roles of the family, which is nonsense. We all agree on that, but that's when it happened. You remember it yourself. As far as discharge is concerned, it's Article 32, it's not volunteering. The law correctly states that it is a release of obligations (no, Article 36, I wrote it down) that it is in accordance with the law introducing the relevant public income. We have only given that possibility, in accordance with the law introducing the relevant public income. Now whether that public income will work out in one way or another, we don't know. But this law, which introduces some public revenue, will give clear criteria for eventual release, in part or in full. It is not the matter of this law, but it is important that this law put the possibility that associations can be freed in certain segments of their operations, but, again, in accordance with the law introducing public income. There's no volunteering here. The fact that this is the fifth bill and that we are the last country in the environment to pass this law, absolutely the last. According to counterpart Plassic, Croatia still brought it in 2001, everyone brought it, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia, BiH. It's bad for us being last, it sounds bad, but there's one good thing. This law also detailed the practice of applying such solutions in neighbouring countries, and all that was heard in the five-year debate on these issues, and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Believe me, compared to the countries in the environment, we've created, it may sound immodest, but using their experience, we've made probably the best law of everyone in the environment, because we've had the opportunity to use their experience. If we'd done it before, before them, we'd probably have made some mistakes and tripped about some of the things they've been tripping about in their practice. That's it. I will try to answer every one or several questions, which I hope will satisfy the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22008	Thank you. The word has Dr. Zoran Shami, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22009	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, God has helped three times; it seems that some associations have resented God badly, so I guess they'll help the fifth time. Now let's be clear, on the one hand, the DSS absolutely supports the need for the adoption of Association Laws, because it is, as I say, a very important area. On the other hand, the DSS supports the idea of gathering citizens in the association on a number of issues, and we think it's very good that there are a large number of associations in the country. However, we have one specific history of the association in the last 60 years, even in the last 20 years, even in the last nine years. We have one negligiblely small number, so to speak, of troubled associations, which, they wanted us to -- they didn't want, on everyone's mind when they mentioned the association. We have a small number of individuals who are related to what is called "non-governmental organisations" in terms of associations of citizens. The term 'non-governmental organisation' is completely wrong, because the larger number, especially, of the few more present associations, are very government associations, however, not our governments, but some other governments. It's never public, it's never transparent, so it's not worth discussing. I don't know who on the professional side wrote this text of the law. It's my impression that he was made by a professional and wasn't made with a bad intention. But that does not mean that there is no number of provisions in the law that should not be changed, so the DSS, in that regard, has submitted 28 amendments. Since the law has 98 members, it's not that many. The amendments were made not to destroy the concept of the law, but to fix certain things, so that some lightly written things, which do not mean anything, would explain and to solve some issues that have not been settled in the law. I don't have as many objections as Mrs Plassic has about the property part, but the fact is, and here we have proposed an amendment that should solve a case that isn't so rare, which is that in the past they've left a variety of legions to some associations. Unfortunately, we're not even close to adopting a law on denationalisation, so we're starting to find some legislation in the middle of Belgrade making a real hotel, etc. The fact is that there are legislations left to certain organisations and that these legislations are available to these organisations, it is only a question of how to solve an additional problem, which is that there are more subjects on the same topic; there are more Esnaf associations of one and the same esnaf, and, let's say, there are legates left to that esnafu. We've made one proposal that doesn't touch and harm anything. We have not resolved the issue of legates that have been nationalised since 1945, so they are not denationalised yet, but will be resolved by the law on denationalization, but we are solving the issue of available legislation for some associations. By the way, I don't know where you get the idea that the DSS is against minors starting associations. I don't know how you ended it. We have submitted one amendment, but not in the sense that it prohibits minors from forming associations, but in another sense, which Mrs Vojić-Markovic will explain later. The DSS will implement its position on this law after discussions on amendments. We have submitted 28 amendments and I assure you that they are all submitted with the intention of correcting the text of the law. It is not about the amendments that we would be dazzling in this congregation. In the end, Mr. Chairman, let me say two or three sentences that have nothing to do with this law, but I feel the need to pronounce them. I'm sorry Mrs. President of the Assembly isn't here, but Mr. Secretary could hear that, too. It's about the attitude of RTS towards this assembly. I agree with Madam President of the Assembly that not everything must always go on a direct transmission, something can go on a delayed transmission, if something is important, so it is necessary to interrupt the transfer of the Assembly, but it cannot be transferred to the Assembly at one hour after midnight. Then you can choose whether you will look at some channels, unfortunately, porno, whether you will watch the distinguished Mr. Nikola or some of the ladies who chair the assembly, whether you will watch the MPs of this assembly. This would be funny if it weren't sad. I ask all MPs of this congregation, whether they are in the congregation majority or minority, to understand that RTS is making fun of this congregation, to humiliate this congregation. I would understand that it is private television, so it can do what it wants, in accordance with some rules of the game, but this is the state television paid by Serbian citizens, which is very neatly paid by all Serbian citizens and the time for the transfer of the Assembly must not be within one hour of midnight. It's not about any formal violations of the Rules of Procedure, this or that. Most seriously, I ask you, those whose duty it is, to protect the integrity of this congregation. Otherwise, we'll have to take some other steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22010	Thank you. I could totally agree with you, only I regret to say, to our misfortune, that it is not the only media that has such a relationship with the Parliament. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22011	Mr. Minister, this is the fifth law that has been in the process since democracy is in this form, or the kind that you represent has come to power. However, four previous attempts failed. With him, and some governments left. Here, now and the fifth draft of the law, we sincerely hope that something similar will happen, for good. Mr. Minister, you're saying that some of the concepts mentioned in this law, such as political parties, churches, religious organisations, trade unions, organisations or groups of organisations that will be defined in specific laws. We agree with that and our concept is precisely that these organisations should regulate special laws. However, as long as these organizations, their names, the names are in this law, we must comment on them, we must look at them with more respect and give our vision and interpretation. We can't take your word for it, because the law is older than the minister; if you hadn't put the 2nd position of the 2nd term: political parties, unions, churches and religious communities, we wouldn't have commented on it, because there would be no need. But as long as that's the case, we must express our vision. Mr. Minister, we talked about this law half a year ago, when you pulled him out of the assembly procedure. That's when the opposition asked you to withdraw the law and return it to congregation procedure. You pulled it, but not because we asked for it, but because you had a problem with the budget; you had very little time, so some law had to be withdrawn to get the law passed. After half a year, you return the same law on associations, only with a few cosmetic changes, and nothing more. I can't believe that an educated and intelligent man wouldn't have taken advantage of the opportunity given to him during a public debate and debate in principle, which took place in the Assembly, that all those amendments that we've submitted were not incomprehensible to the law, most of them more than positive proposals. I therefore legitimately conclude that someone has made a very serious decision and, in Serbian, has put pressure on the Assembly to return to this very, or almost unchanged bill. I underline, we are for one of these laws, which is the law that needs to be regulated by this area of association of citizens, because the SRS is always for the laws, especially for the good ones. To those in need of some help, or we estimate that we need some help, we intervene with a certain amount of amendments, so we have also submitted to this bill 70 amendments to 80 members, and I see that other parliamentary groups have been up-to-date, so over a hundred amendments to this bill have been collected. We are for the law that regulates this area. During the previous principle debate, three concepts were formed through the amendments submitted. One of you, in the form of a bill, is now the fourth, and the other two were formed during the amendment to your proposal for legislation, from the part of the ruling coalition MPs, which has been seen today through this opening principle debate, that is, this part used by authorised representatives. So, three concepts; one part of the ruling parties gave the concept through their amendments, which differ again from your bill, then the opposition – DSS-NS, especially the SRS, offered a third concept. We're all going to defend our concepts, and you're here to try and keep as warm as you can. What you can't, or you can't change, you won't change, but it's ours to say what we agree with or disagree with. Of course, we won't praise you very much, because we are still the opposition. Keep doing your job, we'll do ours, and we'll see where it all gets us. Since we have almost the same target, same distance, we have submitted these 70 amendments. Of course, if you do not accept everything in the future, through the formation of this new law that will appear by leaving the Assembly, or after the vote, it will go to your cheek and to your soul. It's ours to say and save ourselves. So we've been looking at this law on many sides, legal, sociological, security, religious, etc. As I said half a year ago, I can't believe you had the courage to present a bill like this to us in the Assembly. You've returned a confusing bill to us again in the process, because we see that almost every organization that had the desire to be registered, and couldn't meet the criteria through special, parent-laws, is trying to do it now through this proposal, or future law on associations. Through this list of wishes you have come up with such a bill; some organisations would control even more than you should, some you would like to deprive, and some of whom are disgusted, against which they are taking serious actions, or operations, the most developed, and other countries in the world, you would allow them to exist here in any form whatsoever. A month ago, the Law on Political Party was passed, and you said in the media these days that you were proposing a whole set of laws on political regulation and political parties, on the election process, as I understand it, six-seven new laws from that area are coming. I'm asking a logical question. If there is already a Law on political parties, if we're going to pass these six more new laws, isn't it possible that through this complex, this whole set of laws we regulate all the issues that are important for political life, political engagement, public work, secret work, I don't know what work of political parties, and through the electoral system, but to mention the concept of 'political parties' and in the law on citizens' associations? We can trust you with the word that these parent laws, special laws will be applied, but we are still coming into this confusing situation that someone may be able to see through their fingers to form an organization and with three members, although it was a proposal in the Political Party Act – 5,000. I don't know if it's adopted, someone filed an amendment on 10,000, so I don't know how long it takes there, and now we're talking about political parties that can register with three members. We're getting into a situation where we're wondering, why are we even talking and why are we thinking about it? We're talking and we're thinking about it because you put that notion into the law and we have to process it, so I suggest you delete the political parties from this law and let them deal with these six-seven laws that are meant to do so. Then, unions, can't we just go back to some special law, and I think it exists, to regulate that area, don't we already have thousands of unions? Of course, you should give people freedom to team up and organize, but you need to set some criteria. If you once again have the term "sindicate" in the Association Act and if you have members who say that only three members are enough, or need three men to form one organization, then why those three men not to form that organization? Why would they have to ask a couple hundred like-minded people to form it again? In the economic situation where we are, we see terrible scenes, like from some psycho-horor films, in Serbia, before comedy, like yesterday in Lapovo, where I don't know how many people lie on the track to commit suicide, where people of 60-70 cry because they don't have bread to eat, because they wonder where they spent their 30-40 years – in some halls, in some factories. Some of them also had some work activities to build these halls and these factories. Today they have no sense of privacy, that they have invested anything in it, and besides, they have no economic satisfaction, no elemental ability to live. They want their families to solve the problems of their existence by their suicide. That's really amazing. If someone wants to trim existing unions, to have as little power and less influence in society as possible, I can understand that, but I can't figure out that whoever proposes the law only looks at it from the point of view that it will last two, three, four, five months, not two or three years or 20-30 years. You know, government regimes are changing. Was Sloba for 10 years, here you are, 10 years, I guess someone else will come after you to be 10 years, to finally light this Serbia. Unions gain representativeness by the number of members. Suddenly we'll get unions that have three members. How long does it take them to acquire their representativeness, to be recognized by the government and to start negotiating with them, or to make sense again, that if we saw that only three or four trade unions took 3,500 people to downtown Belgrade on May 2nd and 3rd, again, three or four other unions, and that those 3,500 people in the streets of Belgrade caused panic in the ruling coalition, where individual spokesmans and mayors began to appear to ban gatherings, police using force to prevent gatherings, etc. What happens, Mr. Minister, when 30, 40 or 50,000 people are found on the streets of Belgrade in a few months? You notice, the critical mass went down compared to 1999 and 2000, when it took you 300,000 for the Slobodan Milosevic regime, and you blew it up to half a million in the media. I hope there are now 50,000 sober people to change you, but I'm saying, you don't have to act panicically and make certain legal decisions in order to get rid of certain organizations. On the other hand, through this bill of law, you provide an opportunity for each family to register their own union, and then – a seal in the pocket, a jury account on the memorandum and in the battle for bread cover, so how can anyone manage. It's amazing, but again you've put this bill to register churches and religious communities. I am particularly affected by this subject, and later in the principle debate, I will deal with it in more detail, especially through certain examples, and I must, because I have remained in your debt in the last sitting, when this law was on the agenda, in December of last year, because you put a few thesis through your replica, and I have to answer you on my own, which I will answer through the examples. The law on churches and religious communities was passed in April, or May 2006. It has certain criteria as to which organisation can register, has prescribed criteria, 100 members to register, to have a specific programme, statutes, that it must not come out of a specific framework, etc. What are we getting here? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I can't take your word for it, I have to believe what's written on paper, in this bill of law, which is that three members are enough to organize a particular organization, or church. I don't know why you're entering the field of work of another ministry. Why are you interfering with their business? Because they may not be able enough to recognize what they should do, or do you have better experts in your ministry on religious matters than they do? It is also possible, given that our minister of religion lives in two countries, works in four jobs, only God knows whose citizen he is, he was a member of who knows what and which parties. I can't believe you put the concept of the church, because the last one who formed the church, about two thousand years ago, unfortunately some, that organization still exists, had the power and power to experience persecution after the formation of that organization, or the church, the only assembly, the apostolic, and to be killed, but it had the force, so that death won by a speedy, or urgent procedure, as you say, in just three days. I don't believe that you in the government have such visions and attitudes, that you are so strong that you can organize churches, though, watching you perform, I really believe that some of your ministers, some of your colleagues, believe that you and the mountains can move, especially in election campaigns. Let's say, with the expertise and mechanization of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, with the Messianic Visionary of Mr. Tadic, or with the financial structures of Mr. Dinkic, which are such that we can, or can't see even in homo-series, the type of "Muska", famous British humorist series. Or maybe I'm wrong, because the next group of organizations you listed in the bill are religious communities. It is an even wider concept than a church, and that group, for example, includes cult-type organisations, who find for their teachings a foundation in Hindu religion, which is a syncretic type, and there it is said that everything and everything can go together, that everything can be believed, only if it suits the guru, or God who walks the earth. To inform you, currently in India, which has over a billion inhabitants, there are approximately 500,000 of these guru registered, which are worshiped at the level of deities. I am now extracting one reciprocity, what is a few ministers, of the eight million citizens of Serbia, compared to these 500,000 in India? And last time I did, and now I'm going to explain and show, especially later, when I have more time, which are all masks that use very serious sect-type organizations and how they're going to register and perform towards you. Of course, I don't have the illusion that you will accept our amendments, but I hope that these suggestions and this evidence that I show you will serve that, the moment they come and demand to register, you can easily identify them and that, perhaps, if you dare, you reject their application for registration. As I said, many serious countries in the world, especially these Western democracies, your false friends, treat this problem much more seriously. They've also brought some resolutions, which I'm going to quote later, to show you how countries you admire do it. Please don't throw dust in our eyes, that we have to look through some colorful glasses, with a glass view, because we're not hippies. There may be some ministers in the government who are still living by these doctrines and these teachings, but for us and Serbian citizens, we can't look through those colorful glasses anymore. You said last time - we'll only register normal organizations, because you don't believe, I guess, that they'll rush Satanists to register with us. He won't. First, their nature is not such that they will run to register, and secondly, you have already given them the opportunity, as you just said from the pay phone, to have the right to exist without registering. Mr. Minister, you say - European countries have this law. Of course they have this law, because they can afford it, they can allow themselves to train, train, train and prepare their youth through such liberal laws to take responsibility, or responsibility for certain actions and certain events in life, and to bear responsibility for their actions, because they are regulated countries, are not countries like ours. In these countries, Western democracies can't find a restaurant or a coffee shop that works after ten or eleven o'clock in the evening. Their youth goes to bed at ten or eleven o'clock in the evening, and ours is only then being prepared, or'mounted' to go out into life, and it comes back in the morning, at four, five or six o'clock, with bloodied and cut eyes, angry at everyone around it. They're doing it because someone's propagating to them that it's "fancy," that it's "in," that that's how we should live, that we shouldn't work, that we should just have fun. In those countries that have arranged systems, sleep is taken at 22 or 23 hours and only special citizens, who may long for some red lanterns, and red lanterns can be found in some suburbs, and everyone else lives a normal and balanced life. After a while, when such a system is set up, such a quality system, you can pass such liberal laws and allow young people from 14, 15, or 16 years of age to bear the consequences and responsibilities of organizing in certain organisations, not that their mistakes are paid by their parents, by fines of 50 to 500,000 dinars. Thank you. It'll be a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22012	We are moving to work in order of the Members of the People's Parliaments, according to the application for a word in principle on the proposal for a law on associations. The word is Mr. Djuro Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22013	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I firmly hope that we will finally pass this law, which, as we have already heard, has been in the process and what has been happening to it for the past few years. It's time to get something that's a dry need, for a number of reasons, and bring it. As for the assessment of this law, I have to say that he, professionally speaking, is from a legal-technical point of view, one of the laws we've had here lately, i.e. It's very concise, precise, the definitions are clear. We're not going into whether this law could materially have covered something broader and other problems, but on this legal-technical side, it's really one of the best, in my opinion. I think it's very important that, by passing these laws, we solve some of the problems related to this regrouping, what associations are, what NGOs are, what this civil sector is, what this third sector is, etc., to clear up some things there. I must say that even the creators of this law were not easy, in my opinion, to pass one of these laws, given that it was, as we heard, about 30. 1,000 of these working entities, however, are the dominant groups of the so-called. lobbyist associations, but to make one common multiple of all that to make this work properly, I think it's a really great skill. That's why I think it's very good that in the law, in Article 78, it sets a time limit of 18 months to see how all this is going to work and whether it's going to be necessary for some specific cases, individual associations, maybe some special law, which I think will be necessary. As has already been said, the proposal that we have made has been respected when it comes to Article 7, about that part of the association and its status, I think it's settled well now. Some other issues have been well resolved, although I think that Article 7, or a member who speaks about associations that join together, or they join in alliances or other associations, may need to find some other formula that would specify it, because there are problems related to territorial relations and the relationship of something that is not territorial, and it is possible that these associations, as you can see, are created on one and another basis. Also, compared to the earlier proposal, when both those who register and those who do not register have identical status, it is now segregated, so those who register have legal personality status, and those who do not register enter the regulatory area according to the rules of the civil partner so that there should be no confusion in the future functioning of such associations. It's an extremely good solution, although I don't think it's just a matter of this law, but it's more of a problem with the laws in the field of fiscal policy, in terms of dealing with economic activities. Here it is envisaged as an option, which goes for the purpose of what the status provides for as a goal and obligation, and which is why the association is formed, but I think there is a situation where it insists on something that is not a major economic activity, and in practice it is exorcised by the great punishment of these associations that, for example, sell coffee for ten dinars, so it is now considered a big business. And these retirement clubs, the clubs for the living room, are constantly exposed to some kind of procedures, regardless of what they have fixed cash registers and what they have prices that are at the level of what is not profit-making, because associations and are not some profitable organisations, but they still have to live on certain incomes, which are provided, in the first place, with membership fees, somewhat, with these donations and gifts that eventually appear. So far, the associations, apart from these latest NGOs, were not exactly at the mercy of the government when it came to the possibility of competing for certain programmes. When I was in the Alliance of Pensioners, at the level of the City, we tried with the late president of the Belgrade City Assembly, when he was late Djindjic, then we made a programme that was assessed as good and we got some funding. I think the future should be a little clearer and more precise for everyone to be equal, not for some to be privileged. As for the property issues, I think the solutions... (President: Time.) I use those six minutes as a whole. (President: You can't. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22014	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, first of all, I would like, at the beginning of my presentation, to point out the objection of the chairman who gave me no word when I answered the line, because I was directly mentioned by the minister, our MP club and myself, as well as my fellow attorney. I'm sorry the minister doesn't have the right to tell you right now, but I find it very awkward to discuss, because I think there are certain objections that the minister might respond to directly. But what's there is, it's not the first time, maybe the man was really stopped and he had to come out for a moment. The Law on Associations that is before us is a law that has its own good side, that must be said, but there are also a number of things that the NS Parliament Club cannot agree with. The president of the Velimir Ilic Parliament Club spoke about it and the objections stand. I'm sorry that we're interpreted by a colleague from G17 plus that, perhaps, she can't agree at all with some of our remarks, but it's a matter of assessing anyone who proposes the law and who supports this law. There are great illogicalities when it comes to the relationship between this minor and his legal representative, which is what counterpart Sasa Dujovic of the ruling coalition also noted as a remark. It is not disputed that children can be members of the association, it is not disputed that in some situations they can be founders of the association, but it is extremely controversial, first of all, the number of founders. Article 10: "The associations can establish at least three founders, with at least one founder having to have a residence, or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". Hypothetically, a child his father supports in being a member, i.e. the founder of the association and, for example, two members of an association that is not from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's very imprecise. You shouldn't have left this opportunity. We believe it was much more acceptable, and New Serbia has also submitted an amendment in this direction, that the association should have put 10 founders, regardless of the things they are called on, as in some other countries it is constantly done. We're constantly calling on other countries, giving examples, and suddenly we're going into something that's completely unknown to us, in this way. I will remind you that ten founders are required to establish a cooperative. What's the problem here? If a 14 - year - old child is able to establish, or be one of the founders, the question of responsibility is raised. Of course, the child cannot be held accountable for his actions, but this law has provided for something very dangerous, and we have to point out that – criminal provisions and criminal provisions for economic crimes. It's a message why in this part of the law there's a commercial offense in the first place. I am responsible for telling you, if a commercial offence is mentioned, then it must be the jurisdiction of trade courts, and not, as the law provides, municipal, or basic, in the new territorial division of the judiciary. It is known that when it comes to a commercial offence, a trade court decides. If such criminal provisions are provided for founders and for a responsible person, then there is a fundamental concern in situations where children appear as founders, what will happen to those criminal provisions, who will pay for it, assuming that the child will not be a responsible person, but that it will be someone else, but it appears as founder and can lead to a problem even to its parent, who is a legal representative. There's a great danger for associations of this kind of criminal policy. I have to say it more than once, because the fines that are scheduled and up to 900,000 dinars will put certain associations in a position that they will go bankrupt very quickly. That is why New Serbia has submitted a number of amendments in this direction that, if criminal policy is foreseen, those penalties will be significantly less. This is about, in practice, amateur societies, and we're afraid that in this kind of criminal policy, people who want to join together, people who want to do some activities, they're going to get into a situation, a small number of good and honest people who don't have direct benefit from these associations, they're going to move away and they don't want to team up, because criminal policy can suit them personally, because the penalties are extremely large. I draw attention once again, when we talk about details, that if there are economic offences, it is necessary to accept the New Serbia amendment that says it is the jurisdiction of the trade court. There's still a lot of things, unfortunately, time is extremely short. In the case of registration in the register – registration in the register shall take place within 30 days of the date of submission of an orderly application for registration, and already Article 33 says – the association shall report to the registrar any change of data to be entered in the register within 15 days. In this Article, why would the State Authority be privileged by deadline in relation to these people who are in associations – that in 15 days they are obliged to report changes and to decide within 30 days? In Article 35. The government is prescribing the amount of registration fee. I think it is unnecessary, that it is necessary for the minister in charge to deal with this, because, after all, why should the government be drawn into some of the affairs that are in the power of the minister? When we talk about the way the association's assets are acquired, one good thing is predicted, something that has been said for years, which is that natural and legal persons who make contributions and gifts to associations can be exempt from the relevant tax obligations, in accordance with the law that introduces the relevant public income. Here we have, as a Parliament club, submitted an amendment that and the Priors stand – can be, will be. If we really want to help people in associations to gain a certain profit for subsidising these associations, then we need to stand - 'beings', because it will be stimulating both for donors and for associations to fight for every penny. As the bill says, 'I can't be', it's going to be a selection of how anyone likes it, someone's going to be released, someone won't, and there's an unfair competition coming up right away. Therefore, we believe that this part of the law is good, but with this change, it will be. When we talk about opportunities for foreigners to establish their associations, we should pay attention to whether the principle of reciprocity in this situation is satisfied. This law has a series of inaccuracies to be removed. That is why the New Serbia Parliamentary Club has submitted a sufficient number of amendments, which we believe should be accepted in the debate on details, especially those on criminal policy, because the penalties provided for by this law are extremely large. In the case of transitional and final provisions, which goes in favour of the Minister, we have submitted an amendment. The law states that within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the minister is laying down rules for the implementation of this law, and we believe that it takes 180 days to implement this law from next year. This isn't just about the minister, it's about the association, getting used to this kind of merger. That is why this deadline should be extended because many associations have begun their activities. Maybe some associations don't want under these conditions to continue their work. In that sense, Article 90 would also change – a three-month deadline would be replaced by six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22016	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22017	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, is the first in a set of acts that should regulate a broad field of association of citizens in the coming period, which would finally bridge the legal vacuum that dates back to more than two decades. The changed social environment, the second system of values, but also the European practice of modern democracies, require the creation of a new legal framework, which would clearly define the place, purpose and role of the association of citizens. Starting with the contemporary experiences of Europe and the countries in the environment, the legislator also introduced specificities from our society, but also the need for a clear definition of the association of citizens in Serbia, although through sublegal acts should possibly consider establishing a regulatory body that would articulate the real value of the business that associations are dealing with, firstly, because of the fact that there are already traditional associations in society, as the minister pointed out, with a decades-old rich tradition, to those who are more like an initiative to change social relations, problems that are daily manifested in the dynamics of transition societies. A special group of these organizations are phenomenal associations, which have been created with only one permanent goal, some of which have been used for the political needs of the destruction of authorities, which should be a clear line of distinction in the coming period between the general social action for a particular social group, or for society as a whole, and the consequent interests of certain political elites, which would achieve their ideas through a wider front, mainly through propaganda through certain associations. It is therefore necessary to make clear the difference between political action and the functioning of organisations and citizens' associations for the benefit of the wider social community. The status definition, a clear programme and statute in accordance with the Constitution must be the source of the rights and obligations of each association. This should also apply to foreign organizations, as well as to their branches in our country, where it must be done to make the full nature of the work, but also to the contribution of those associations that are present in our country. In this segment, the legislator is quite liberal, which requires clear definitions of which segments and which needs of our society of this organisation should be dealt with. The legislative proposal does not clearly define the extent to which the association's measures may be profitable organisations, as well as under what conditions the association may have the right to enjoy property in social or state property. The method of state of property is not a feature of European practice, but, if that should be done, it would be worth starting with previous status changes in social organisations, starting in the early 1990s. First of all, because some, first of all youth organisations and associations, without a clear legal framework, alienated property that, de facto, now and de jure, was not owned. There is no need to mix the ownership of political parties, which cannot possibly be undermined under the entire assets of former socio-political organisations. Since the property is clearly demarcated early in the last decade, it is important that the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate clearly determines nature, but the source of rights and jurisdiction over property, in order to avoid so far volunteerism in interpreting the unconstitutional provisions of "revolutionary" laws, after so-called "revolutionary" laws. democratic change. These irregularities, as well as the legal gaps in the proposed law, should be clearly defined by means of, possibly, sublegal acts, but also by these amendments that exist, which are probably good. We also last time, when the law was on the agenda, asked to increase the number of founders and we think that would be good, although we got the answer that it was practice in other countries in the environment. We simply think that if someone can't find 10 founders for one association, then that association shouldn't even exist. Also, through some sub-legislative acts, as the minister has already noted, that it is his responsibility to propose, a new environment should be created for the smooth work and development of social organisations and associations of citizens and the entire NGO sector. Therefore, the legislative project should, in principle, be supported, as will be supported by the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, but with all the proposals that will be put in place, as I have already said, through amendments, in the final form, in this law on associations, as well as in other legal and sublegal acts that will define certain parts of the matter to which the law deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22018	Thank you. The word is Mrs Stojanović Svetlana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22019	Dear Members of Parliament, when the draft Law on Associations was previously on the agenda of the National Assembly, the text offered did not distinguish between associations of public interest, what all art associations are, and other associations of citizens who gather around some personal interest – associations of philatellists, fishermen, numismaticists, etc. That was what I was talking about at the time in the discussion in principle, and I would be glad if my presentation had contributed to the proposal for a law that today lies ahead of us in Article 38 — the means to implement the programme of public interest. I will read part of Article 38 – The funds to promote programmes that implement the maintenance, which are of public interest, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. ''The Government, or the Ministry responsible for the area in which the basic objectives of the association are achieved, shall allocate the funds set out in Article 1 of the Article on the basis of the public competition carried out and conclude the contracts for the implementation of the approved programmes. Under the programme of public interest set out in Article 1 of this Article, programmes in the field are particularly considered: social protection, martial law, protection of persons with disabilities, social care for children, the protection of internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija and refugees, the promotion of birth, assistance to old people, health care, protection and promotion of human and minority rights, education, science, culture', and art, 'information, environmental protection, sustainable development, animal protection, consumer protection, the fight against corruption, as well as humanitarian programmes and other programmes in which associations are exclusively and directly following public needs. The government regulates closer to the criteria, conditions, scope, method and procedure of allocation of these funds. The provisions of Articles 1 to 4 shall apply accordingly to the funds allocated to associations from the budget of the Autonomous Province and the units of local self-government. ''Article 38 defines well-defined areas in which public needs are met exclusively and directly. A significant fall has been made, so instead of an autonomous province in the plural, Serbia has two, in the view of the 5th member, to mention an autonomous province in one. I expect this error in the technical order to be corrected. I am concerned, however, that, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of the Association Law, it is not necessary to provide funds from the Republic's budget for the implementation of this law. If so, Article 38 will not apply, i.e. the minister who adopts the rules for the implementation of this law will not take into account Article 38, which obliges the funds to promote an association programme that is of public interest to security in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For art associations, the art is also interesting. 42nd and 43rd, and I'd like to draw attention to them. The property of an association that was social, or state property at the time of entry into force of this law, in the event that these associations cease to work, becomes property of the Republic of Serbia, and the right to use it belongs to the unit of local self-government on whose territory was the headquarters of the association. Many art associations, which have a long tradition of 50 and 60 years old, whose founders are some of the greatest names of Serbian culture, use exactly property in state, once social property. I believe that the legal solution by which this property cannot be transferred to other related associations, but to the republics, or to the state, is correct. Let me point only to the need for two technical editorials. Instead of "the termination of the association", the entire text of the law should be written as follows: "the termination of the work of the association", as stated in Article 57. Article 52(1) states: the liquidation of the association is carried out when the association has sufficient financial resources to cover its obligations; I suppose it should write – when the association does not have enough resources to cover its obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22020	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22021	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no minister. I think we have two very serious things that we would need an explanation about this law. We discussed the Association Law last time and of course the LDP will support the bill, as it has tried to do so five times. I hope this time there will be a vote on this law. But it is two changes that were not the subject of the talks with the experts of the Council of Europe. With our membership in the Council of Europe, we have taken on certain obligations to respect certain declarations that are adopted there, concerning the organisation of NGOs, one of which I believe is a lapus, and I am sure you will accept that. In Article 13, as regards minority languages, it is envisaged that a non-governmental organisation, i.e. the association of citizens in the language of a national minority, can be registered, but it is limited only to those NGOs dealing with it, I will now quote, I apologize that it would not be misunderstood – if this is provided for in the Statute and if the objectives and achievement of the objectives are aimed at protecting and improving the interests of members of the national minority. We do not see why some association of citizens who, for example, are engaged in the protection of persons with disabilities, and whose majority of members, or activists are members of a national minority, why would such an NGO or association of citizens not be able to register under the same conditions? We have proposed an amendment, which we are sure you will accept, if not, in Parliament most of it. What, however, in some ways raises doubts, is this Article 26, and there were also words this morning, in a way, about it. It is a register, i.e. a state body run by the Register. We have consulted NGOs with whom we have long-term co-operation and, more or less, the only serious grudge is this. We wanted to hear the explanation, we submitted the amendment. The amendment provides for the Registrar to be run by the competent ministry. Now I will try to give at least three reasons why, in our opinion, it is impossible to run it by the Agency for the Management of Business Registers, and why it would be logical to run it by the Ministry, as it has so far. The first reason is that, in a certain way, or certainly, it is against the constitution for the Agency to run that register. I'll try to quote members 18 and 55. The constitution, though I'm sure you know them. Article 55 guarantees freedom of political, trade union and other association. Article 2 is intended for associations to be established without authorisation, i.e. only by application, and continues to say – with registration in the register run by a state body. If we look at the Public Agency Act, which regulates and works of business registries agencies, Article 4 of this Act says – The government cannot direct the work of a public agency, nor coordinate it with the work of the Authority. There is no doubt that the agency is not a state body. Since Article 55 does not provide that the obligation of a state authority can be delegated to another body, we do not see any reason why the Agency is now doing so. It is true that its work can be extended by law on the Agency for Economic Registers, but is in conflict with another member of the law. Therefore, the Agency for Business Registers is not a state body, because the Government cannot direct or influence its work. Furthermore, as regards the practical reason, the management of a register in which citizens' associations are registered must be subject to international standards for the protection of the freedom of association prescribed, e.g. by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. Since this Convention does not apply to economic operators in a very small but irrelevant part, we are certain that there is no person in the Agency for Economic Registers who has the knowledge necessary for this part of the Register. Finally, as a third reason, we think there is no danger for large associations of citizens, but for the small way, this is a restriction of freedom of association, in terms of the fees to be paid. There's a fundamental difference. So, if it's run by the ministry, only administrative fees are required for registration, or for registration in the Register. However, I don't know if you know, I'm sure you know, the Business Registers Agency is operating on a semi-commercial principle. Let me tell you a few details. For example, for the registration itself amounts to between two thousand and 10.5 thousand dinars. For any change in data, it's up to 9.5,000 dinars. For registration, adding some data – up to 5,000 dinars. For the issue of a copy from the Register – 1.5 000 dinars. All of this is paid by an administrative fee paid to the ministry, which is 1750 dinars. If it is a big and traditional association of citizens, it would not be a problem, but for any smaller association of citizens, which has some ad hoc goal or desire, believe that several hundred euros just to come into a position that they are doing the problem, in our opinion. That is another reason why the Agency for Business Registers should not be required, but rather the ministry to run the registry. Finally, I have already said, according to our knowledge, that on this bill, that is, most of the Law proposal, experts of the Council of Europe gave consent, i.e. they participated in the draft law. However, these parts have been changed after these consultations and, since we do not know what the position is, but it is not important, the fact is that no member of the Council of Europe has a register of citizens' associations in any country. Since we do not know the opinion of the Council of Europe experts, as well as that NGOs themselves are against such a solution, I ask you to consider that possibility, and I am sure that the real reasons are on our side. As far as everything else is concerned, there is no doubt that the contribution of the Citizens' Association to the democratisation of society and is one of the best parts of Serbian society, most progressive, I mean all associations of citizens, and everything this Parliament does must do in terms of strengthening and strengthening such initiatives, because they are necessary for the democratisation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22022	The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22023	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, as the previous speakers pointed out, had apparently had one dynamic prehistory by this moment, when we entered this principle debate. We hope to come to a vote and adopt a bill like this. It may be too much to point out, but such a law, which regulates, first of all, the operation of so-called. The NGO, the third sector, is of great interest to both the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, and I believe that most citizens are convinced that the huge potential that lies in this sector is something that deserves adequate legislation. The G17 plus parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal. I believe that it is very professionally done and meets the most European standards in the field of civil and human rights, as well as freedom of association. What must have been a very complicated and delicate task of those who have proposed, who have been writers of this bill, is a very sensitive matter, in which, on the one hand, we are setting very liberal conditions for the association of citizens, and on the other hand, that we are not in any way jeopardising the freedoms and rights of other citizens. It is known that the adoption of this law is one of the obligations arising from our membership in the Council of Europe, but it is also one of the laws that must be in the Corps of those on the path of European integration. The existing legal environment is, more or less known, time-surpassed and does not provide adequate space for the functioning of numerous associations and organisations. This is further evidence and reason to establish these legal frameworks. The bill itself fully respected the freedom of association and, what is particularly important, has a minimal impact on the autonomous arrangement of the association, i.e. This is defined in the section relating to parts of the statutes providing for the legal functioning of the association and protecting third parties in a possible dispute or procedure. We believe that the liberal conditions set out for the creation of an organisation itself, of three people, are fully in line with the standards that exist in the developed European countries, as well as the special condition – that organisations, or associations, are not conditioned to register. Of course, most associations will want to register, as this enables themselves to become a legal entity and to report in that legal traffic, and what is particularly important, thus obtaining the right to apply for funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government. What I would like to point out here is something that may be a negative practice in local self-government, which is that, in much of Serbia's municipalities and cities, there is still a principle of almost discretionary right to share budgets with certain organisations. I would take advantage of the opportunity to point out to Ministry representatives that the pressure of local self-government must be strengthened to cross, almost everyone, into public competitions and thus allow greater competitiveness in the budget application. On the other hand, it's very important that I have had the opportunity to personally make sure that a large number of these associations and organisations only formally submit a report on the spending of these funds, and a number never submits them. It is a good point in the bill that all those who are legal entities, which are registered in the Register, using these appropriations, will have to submit a report that must be within the framework of the rules governing accounting and audit. It will certainly serious the work and spending of funds by these organizations. I would not agree with my colleague that the transfer of these public powers to the Agency for Economic Registers is against the constitution. Of course, there is matter in the way of the Agency Act and the Ministry's right to transfer certain state affairs to the agencies. I think we're going to have a double benefit, we're going to achieve an adequate efficiency of registration and possible update of data on emerging changes, as well as economics. The Agency for Business Registers has proved to be effective so far, and I believe that this process will, in general, be carried out in a quality way. What I also want to point out is that it is good to continue the trend that we had in the Law on Political Parties, which is to prevent the administration's silence when registering, which will further protect the freedom of association of citizens. I would also like to point out that the organisations that have chosen to deal with the economic activity of this law will actually focus on being treated as economic operators; they are subject to all those standards governing economic activity. I believe that, in the coming period, the Ministry of the Sea, quality and appropriate sublaws, will edit this area more closely because of possible abuses in the conduct of economic activity by the association, which we cannot rule out at this point as we discuss the law. What is also an additional quality of this law is a way of dealing with assets in the event of an end to the operation of the association. It is certain that all associations will have to formulate within the statutes, in fact provide a definition of who is the heir to this property and it is good that the law said that this successor must be a domestic and non-profit person whose objectives must be close to those for which the association was founded. There will be no rare case that what will not know who owns the property at the end of the association, in practice we will meet, becomes the property of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the existing regulation, that is, it will be local self-government. What I'm saying is that here, too, an appropriate sublegal act will be needed to determine the criteria, what are the approximate goals dealing with the next legal entity, because there is space here too, or there will be a space for abuses. I would further like to point out that it is very good that the requirements for respecting the principle of justice are respected; given the current situation as we have and which is an inheritance from previous forms of property and organization in the form of social organisations, this is the principle of founding the fact that we have. This is good, first of all, because it will not endanger the work of individual associations, or, even, most of them, and, on the other hand, I think it's very good that, by treating the property that will be owned by local self-government, the tenant, i.e. the association that appears will not be exposed to the pressure of local self-government in terms of exposure to market prices. In this place, I would warn the Ministry's representatives that even here local self-government, given the deeply politicised society in which we live, can use the moment in which it appears as someone who rents a certain space, to perform, possibly, pressure and find a suitable empty space in the law, to prevent the association from acting and achieving its objectives. It is good to mention that part of the organisation that, under the pressure of the law, has passed from the status of the association to the social organisation, and thus, practically, their assets are nationalised, if they had previously, and that something that is still not the subject in this Parliament, which should soon be, and that is denationalisation, which would bring some of these funds back to associations. Also, I think it is very fair that the motioner mentioned that it is possible in the court procedure to establish the previous financing of the immovableities that were in the capacity of use by the association and that the association, if it owns evidence, is likely to have problems, but they cannot be fully eliminated, prove whether it financed the immovable property through membership fees, donations, etc. On the other hand, it's good that all mobility belongs to the association. This would complete this part of the analysis of this law and I will repeat that the G17 plus, our parliamentary group, will support this law. It represents the appropriate social and European value we advocate. I believe they will encounter a very good reception both at the association and create a good environment for the further development of the Republic of Serbia and, in general, our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22024	The People's Messenger Bozidar Delic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22025	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to discuss the content of the law, I would like to refer to one practice in the work of this assembly, a violation of Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This law, like many other laws, was submitted to the Assembly to adopt an emergency procedure. If an explanation of such a proposal is considered, it may be detected that it does not comply with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Namely, the mentioned member of the Rules of Procedure, in paragraph 1, is said – the law can, exceptionally, be passed by emergency procedure. It is clear that this is an exception to the regular procedure, which should be interpreted closely. The common rule of law is that exceptions are narrowly withdrawn. If one norm, in this case the provision of the Rules of Procedure, is the exception to another, the general norm, then it must be interpreted closely, i.e. as its legal meaning, to take what is narrow. In this case, as in the case of many other laws in this congregation, the said provision was not interpreted in this way. If the position of the second member is examined, it is easy to note that in the case of an Association Law, the conditions for the adoption of an emergency procedure are not met. According to Article 2, two conditions need to be met so that the law can be passed by emergency procedure. The first condition is – a law governing issues and relations created under circumstances that could not be predicted. The second condition – that law-making causes adverse consequences to people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. It is clear that in this case the conditions for the law to be passed by emergency procedure have not been obtained, and in this way Article 164 has been violated. Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, this is a common practice, that laws are passed by emergency procedure, although there is no basis for this in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. Why am I saying this, gentlemen? In the past weeks and months, we've talked a lot about Parliament's dignity. The Parliament's dignity should be guarded by all MPs and MPs of the opposition, but also by MPs of the post. We have experienced in the Assembly that the government, by sending laws and by demanding that they be discussed by an emergency procedure, this home, as the highest legislative body in the country, is seen as its transmission, or as its pendant. If I mention only one law, the Chamber of Commerce Act, which, gentlemen, you voted against, means it can't be passed by emergency procedure, and immediately, at the first next session, that law came to you in the procedure, it says that not only individual ministries, but even certain ministers are stronger than this highest legislative authority in this country. So much for respecting Article 164. Now I'd like to say something about this law. Mr. Secretary is back. I learned from him that this is the fifth time this law has been in the process, but I've had a chance to read some three proposals. I believe that the main reason for this law is that, after so many years, it has not been brought forward that all the proposals so far have had certain gaps and shortcomings, and that they have been referred to by both domestic and foreign legal experts. First of all, it was about their inconsistency with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This law is certainly necessary, however, I would now like to point out that there are a lot of irregularities in it, in different members, which may be possible to correct the amendments. If we start with Article 2, Article 2, it is pointed out that the establishment and operation of individual associations of citizens can be arranged, or is already governed by other laws. On the one hand, it's good, because it accepts the reality that there are such, meaning special laws for individual associations, such as, say, sports or some other. On the other hand, this is in a certain way discrimination among the associations themselves. It may also be discussed whether the contradictory provisions of Article 2(2) are with the provisions of Article 2(2) of the same Article, as well as with the provisions of Articles 12(4) and 37(2) in respect of non-profits and acquisitions of profits. Article 2(1) defines associations as non-profit organisations, and other marked provisions in the work of the association include the acquisition of profits. True, the law also puts certain restrictions, that it is possible to achieve this acquisition only to the extent necessary to enable these associations to perform their functions. However, the proposal did not make a clear distinction in the rights and obligations between the founders, members and members of the association, as well as members of the managing body of the association, or the alliance. Article 10, which has already been mentioned several times by fellow Members, found that three persons can establish an association, and nowhere is it foreseen whether the founders are members of the association and what their further rights and responsibilities are in the functioning of the association. My fellow MPs have rightly focused on this Article 10, because, even though Mr. Minister in response has called for conventions signed by our country, if it takes three founders to establish one association, why is it not said in the law that at least two founders must have a place in the territory of our country? Or, if it is said that even underage persons at the age of 14, they can form an association, why is it not said in that same article that, if they are minor founders, of three founders, at least one founder should be a full-time and business able person? When it comes to Article 5, it is not clear what the public of the work of the association is. How does the public’s obligation to work come true? The fact that the way in which the work is done is governed by the statutes cannot be sufficiently precise. The registrar, when deciding on the registration of the association in the Register, will establish from the statutes as provided for that the public service obligation of the association is fulfilled and will assess whether the provisions of the public service law of the association are respected. This way, however, too broadly defined the discretionary right of the registrar when deciding to apply for registration is further extended. It should specify what the public of work is, what are the minimum conditions for the public of work to be carried out. In this respect, it is also problematic to apply the provisions of Article 74(1), which provides for criminal liability in the event of breach of the provisions of Article 5. In addition to the need for the public work of the association, it is also necessary to achieve the protection of the personal data of its members, and in this respect this member is inaccurate. As regards Article 7, despite the fact that Article 7 has found that the provisions of this law are applied accordingly to the alliances, certain provisions of this law are not sufficiently precise to apply to the alliances. For example, Article 22(2) found that all members of the association constitute a congregation of the association. Since the members of the association's alliance, they certainly as legal persons, cannot be members of the union assembly in which they joined together, but can only be their representatives. The proposal does not regulate the issue of the establishment and operation of international alliances based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the membership of foreign associations in domestic alliances. Namely, these issues are not regulated by Articles 7, 59 to 68, which, among other things, have been governed by the issues of the association of domestic associations in foreign alliances and the issues of operation of foreign associations in the Republic of Serbia. I want to further point to article 20 of this law. It is not clear from the wording of this Article whether there is the right of a member of the association to initiate proceedings before the competent court for the determination of the invalidity and the statute itself, as the most general act, or its amendments and additions, or only other general and individual acts of the association adopted under the statutes. In addition, the "basic court" clause is used. From the law that has been passed, but which has not yet entered into force, and given the experience with earlier laws, right in that area, and because of not exactly the positive attitude of the domestic and foreign expert public on this law, there is every opportunity that its application will be delayed for a longer period, and it is necessary, Mr. Minister, to replace the word "basic" in the word "general" or to rephrase that position to read: "Any member of the association can initiate proceedings before a competent municipal, or fundamental court". Also, the provision of Article 2(2) does not comply with Article 44. Certainly, Mr. Minister, you could have solved this problem in another way, in transitional and final terms, in Article 90, where you have otherwise made an exception for Article 32(4), where you can regulate what is related to Article 20. As regards Article 22, it has been omitted to indicate how many members of the association are required to apply this position. As far as I know, one of the earlier draft laws here predicted that the association should have at least 100 members so that the statute could provide for the presentation of members in the association assembly. In that sense, this problem can also be solved through amendments, but it is important, because in the way it is now given in the law, it is impossible to apply this attitude. As regards Article 23, no provision is provided for to regulate the situation when an agent oversteps its powers. Is it in this case that the legal work that has been completed is in vain, that is, is it the third person who enjoys protection? Systemically interpreting the Bill of Law, or Article 22(2), it could be said that the third security persons are protected from indifference in the event of overrule of representatives, but that the introduction of a provision that would clearly define this would eliminate the ambiguities that could arise. As regards Article 32(4), this is an exception to the generally adopted Institute of Silence of Administration, which is assumed to have been rejected by the party unless a decision has been reached by the authority of the administration within the specified time limit which the request of the party is adopted or rejected and that the party may, in that case, appeal to the second-degree authority. In addition, it is unclear how the registration in this case will be made in fact. If the Proposer has a clear solution to this situation, then it remains disputed, which is why he postponed the application of this position to two years from the date of entry into force of the law in Article 90. As regards Article 36, it should be clear whether the article is referring only to domestic or foreign sources of these funds. Article 37 is extremely important for the full application of this law. In paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: The fulfilment of this condition shall be assessed by the registrar. The discretionary right of the registrar is set wide again. It is disputed that the conditions for individual cases will be applied, for example, when economic activity is linked to the objective of the association involved in helping children without parental ageing. This may be a wide range of work, especially when taking into account the applicable classification of activity, which is precisely referred to in Article 2(2). The aim of the proposal is obviously to allow economic activity to be carried out in order to finance the activities of the association to achieve its objectives, but not to allow the association to become a company. This is quite all right, but the last request is achieved by the provision of Article 2(3), where the activity of the smaller volume is required, i.e. that the activity is carried out to the extent necessary to achieve the objectives of the association. Therefore, the word "activity" in the plural should be used, so as to allow the association to carry out more economic activities, in terms of the current classification of activity, with these economic activities remaining within the frameworks of Article 2(3) of this Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Does this provision provide that only the association is to be entered into the Register of Business Entities, but as an association? Then the question arises – can only one or more actions be carried out, in the previous position I talked about it, and according to the current classification of the work used by the agency? If only one activity can be performed, or only one activity can be registered, then the problem is that, according to the classification mentioned, there are activities that are very similar, or almost identical, especially if the business activity of the association is not performed in order to obtain profits, but classification is defined as two separate activities, while in practice both of these activities can be closely linked to the association, in terms of this article, and that of its other position. Therefore, in this article, the word "activity" should be used in the plural, with the fact that, unlike companies that register only excessive activity in the Agency, the association should assume that it registers all the activities that it can perform, but not to be, for example, more than three activities. This would lead to a meeting and the need for the State to clearly control and prevent the association from becoming a company but also the need of the association, given the diversity of the objectives they have and for which they are established, to have the need to carry out more than one of the activities that are related to their objective. The position of the 5th member is partly contrary to the provisions of Article 44, although it may be possible to overcome this provision, or inconsistencies, with a valid interpretation. However, I believe that Article 44 should be completed and agreed with Article 37(5). As far as art is concerned. In 38 and 39, something of particular importance does not apply to all associations, but it could refer to some NGOs, especially those who care about human rights, who personify certain personalities known to our public. Let's say we take the humanitarian law fund led by Mrs. Natasa Kandic. Given that Mr. Minister said how many entities it is, how many associations it is, and that Article 71 provides for the supervision of his ministry to be carried out, and then linked to these members who speak of a ban on the work of the association and with an article. In 38 and 39, on the delivery of the report, where it is said that annual accounts and reports on the activities of the association are submitted to the members of the association, in the manner provided for in the statute, I do not see any other possibility, except that the ministry provided for in Article 71 of each of these, as far as is said, several thousand, or ten thousand associations, i.e. Inspectors or representatives of the ministry must visit to see if these associations work in accordance with their statutes. If we were to return to Article 22, which speaks of the Assembly as the highest body of the association and that the Assembly must meet at least once a year, and that financial reports are also being considered on it, I would like someone to present to me some of the financial reports that Natasa Kandic provided to anyone in this country. If this were to be linked to an art. 38, 39, as well as Article 49, which refers to the conditions for erasure from the Register of Association, the association is said to be deleted if it has been twice as long since the time established by the Statute for holding the session of the Assembly, and it has not been held. Also, I would also like to see someone present me with information when Natasa Kandic submitted financial reports to someone and when the association, or the humanitarian law fund, maintained at least those annual sessions, at which each association is mandatory. As for Article 42, the problem with this provision is a situation where there are functional and other alliances, and for example, some domestic association is a member of an international alliance, from which it received funds. When the domestic association ceases to exist, the international alliance that invested its assets gets nothing. Of course, all of this applies if this provision of Article 36(1) is interpreted so that the association can acquire assets from foreign sources. However, neither the domestic bond of which is a member of the association is explicitly given priority in the transfer of assets when the association ceases. Article 50. It would be good to introduce a provision under which it would be possible to impose a ban on the association only if its illegal activities, i.e. activities of its members, cannot be prevented by other means, especially in the light of the possibility provided for in Article 71 and the criminal procedure which may be conducted against individual members of the association engaged in activities not authorised in the sense of this law or criminal law. In Article 53, the term "decision of the association" is not best set, before this decision is referred to in the next article as "the decision to open the liquidation procedure". It is therefore more appropriate that this be a decision to open the winding-up procedure in this Article, and The 53rd and 54th were thus termologically harmonised. Article 57 should provide for cases where a minority of members could dispute the shortened winding-up procedure, since all members of the association are responsible for the obligations of the association in solidarity for the next three years from the end of the operation of the association. Mr Minister, in Article 71, it is necessary to define the inspection supervision more precisely, in accordance with the other provisions of this proposal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22026	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22027	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, is a very important law we are passing today. Mr. Minister, without some false modesty, I must tell you that you have prepared an excellent law, that you have made a good trade in the Serbian Parliament, because this law, first of all, has passed a serious public debate. We've had multiple proposals for this law in the congregation procedure. I think the proposal that lies before us today is a proposal of an excellent law, a fundamentally done, precisely defined, clear. In the end, this is a law that meets one of our obligations to the Council of Europe, because we have committed ourselves to passing this law to the Council of Europe. It is good that we bring it today, because it will regulate one area that is very important in all societies, both in transition and in post-transition periods, because democratic states know the functioning of the NGO sector, civil sector, or associations of citizens, whatever term they use. It is important that we know that democratic states really cultivate their third sector, their associations, because these associations are making democratic adjustments, articulating civil dissatisfaction and much more often and much better than political parties or competent institutions have seen some problem, and in the local community, they solve this problem much faster, more effectively and better. Today, I must thank all NGOs, who have made an immeasurable contribution to the fight for democratic change, which have also contributed to the adoption of this law and the position to make this law. I have to refer to some criticisms that have been heard today at the expense of this law, especially criticism from the part of those opposition parties who are dissatisfied with the number of people and the number of citizens formed by one association, who say the number is three small. On the other hand, we heard some criticisms that were intended, in my opinion, to mock this law, which is not appropriate to the atmosphere in Parliament, but certainly not prohibited, because anyone can talk about the law in the way he thinks it is necessary. Every law that is passed will apply not only to associations of citizens, but, perhaps, to those who criticise the law, because if someone is unable to cross the censorship in Koseric, then it is enough for him to have three members to register the NGO and association of citizens and to participate at least in civil life. Therefore, I see no reason to talk about the law in this way and that this law connects with the Law on Religious Organisations, because in the Constitution, the Church and the State are separate. I think it's about the concern of those people who are so critical of the law, not the desire to be criticised by the law. In the end, I must invite all MPs, all citizens of this country to support citizens' associations, and NGOs, because we live in a time when very often NGOs make fun of each other, they call themselves ugly names. People who start organizations are insulted. Very often these people are imputed to be foreign mercenaries. It is forgotten that these associations of citizens who help, for example, people suffering from cerebral paralysis, the Alliance of the Blind is also the Association of Citizens, the Mountain Rescue Service, which provides assistance to thousands of people in Serbia, is also an association of citizens. Not only are these associations of citizens, it is also the bridge of our country not only towards Europe, but towards all the countries of the developed world, because they are more often accepted into international, European, global associations, but they meet the standards for operating not only in Serbia, but throughout the world. If we take these organizations as a bridge that connects us, then let's not put all these organizations in the same basket and talk about all the associations of citizens in the same way. For the end of my presentation, I call on all MPs to support a good NGO, a good association of citizens, is called "My Serbia". He is working to promote Serbia, to promote the purchase of domestic products – "let's choose domestic" and develop an economic patriotism that is very needed during the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22028	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. Mr. Zoran Bortić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22029	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Government's representatives, the esteemed fellow MPs, the tradition of the choir and the agreement established in the political being of the Serbian people, and based in all the constitutions of modern Serbia, from the Sretenjski Constitution, to this day, finds its own political expression and in the bill of law that we are talking about today. In his history, the Serbian people had a common practice of fighting for their interests through various forms of organisation and presenting them in different forms to the state. Depending on Serbia's state order, the people's organised initiative has come across different solutions. It was once rejected without hearing, and on other occasions, it was the driver of social change in Serbia. From Maticesrska, the Serbian Literature Association, the Serbian Cultural Club, to today's citizens' association, this citizens' initiative has driven positive changes in society and has been the critical consciousness in Serbia leading to progress. In this sense, today's law is a good legal basis for regulation and support of the initiative, free will of Serbian citizens and their associations. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the bill because we believe that the state must provide good assumptions and support for the launch of every citizens' initiative. With this in mind, we are also obliged to point out that norms, i.e. the law, must not be an obstacle to the free and creative will of citizens to come together about ideas and to move their organization. This does not mean that, within these initiatives, the state should also allow those ideas that are against the common interest of Serbian citizens, the preservation of the identity and integrity of our country. The state must not allow the display of racial, religious, national hatred, as well as the forms of fascist behaviour of certain groups, which have never had a more significant foothold in our society. Similarly, the state must not allow social groups and influences that will lead to destabilising Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity under the form of free citizens' initiatives. For all things, I believe that the law on the Association of Citizens, enriched by the amendments, is to be adopted in the debate at this session. It should not be allowed to, under the advent of the urgency of adopting laws, substantiation, or to produce weaknesses that will leave behind long-term and incomprehensible consequences. As one such weakness, I consider the bill of law in Article 10(1), that only three citizens can form an association, and that only one of those three founders must have a seat, or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this regulation can be a source and a legal framework for many of the problems that could arise in the future from this organisation of the Association of Citizens and should therefore be adapted to the general interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22030	Mr. Myalyevich, do you want to start? Mrs. Golden Djeric? He's not here. Jelena Travar-Miljević? He's here. Here you go, Mrs. Travar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22031	Dear Presidents, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would certainly speak affirmably of this law, because this is a law that will support MP G 17 plus. On the basis of the Constitution, which in its works regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, in addition, guarantees freedom of political, trade union and any other association, as well as the right to remain outside each association, and under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which this country ratified in 2003, we have obtained a law on associations, or a draft law on associations. We all know that the legal framework for the establishment and operation of the association in the Republic of Serbia is currently quite broad and unhomogeneous. Since one of the laws was passed nearly 20 years ago, about 25 years ago, and the other 15 years ago, I think it is necessary to pass a new law, which will fully regulate this matter. I would like to remind you that there is a tradition of guaranteeing and enabling association on voluntary grounds, in order to achieve common non-profit objectives, which, through constitutional norms, still meets in the 1869 Serbian Principality Constitution. The first law to regulate this question was passed in 1881. In Serbia, there are associations that work more than a century, and often these associations preserve culture and tradition, and besides, we have professional associations, which work. I would point out that the adoption of this law is also one of Serbia's commitments, by joining the Council of Europe. I would stress that a certain newspaper in this law is the status of NGOs, which, by virtue of one of the basic principles of the status of NGOs in Europe, predicts that enrolment in the Register of Associations is not a condition for the establishment of an association. However, by enroling in the Register, the association acquires legal personality status. In addition to the above, it is proposed that the association can establish at least three founders, with one of the founders having to have a residence, or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this law, there is a possibility that underage persons, aged 14 years, may be the founders of the association, which is in accordance with the ratified UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, of course, with a certified written statement of consent of its legal advocates. The Register of Associations, as mentioned many times today, runs the Agency for Business Registers as a trusted business, in writing, as well as a unique central electronic database. The registration in the Register shall take place within 30 days of the date of the application for registration, and the association shall report any change in the data to be entered there within 15 days of the date of the change. This bill regulates, in addition to the above mentioned, the assets of the association, the carrying out of activities, status changes, the termination of the work of the association, as well as the functioning of foreign associations, which has not been regulated by any law in the Republic of Serbia. The bill contains a normative relationship that enables foreign associations to function, and these associations, in fact, operate on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whose activities are directly aimed at providing humanitarian aid, establishing co-operation and improving expertise and scientific knowledge and research. I believe you already know that the successful co-operation of the government and the non-governmental sector is considered one of the criteria to measure the degree of democracy of a society. After the adoption of this law, the possibility of formalising the co-operation of the government and the non-governmental sector could be considered, as possible through agreements, councils and offices. In any case, these associations and NGOs should be provided with a single legal framework of action and this is one of the pro-European laws that, I repeat, the G 17 Group will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22032	Thank you, Mrs. Travar. Miljevic? Mrs. Radovic, will you do it now, or should we start taking a break? Depends on how much you plan to speak? Let's start a break, then 15 o'clock? Then we'll be in 15 hours. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević will be first. I'm setting a break until 3:00. [[After break – 15:00]] I'd like to inform you that we will be working after 18 hours today, in accordance with Rule 85 of our Rules of Procedure. The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22034	As I said in my first presentation today, that the concepts of "political parties", "sindicate", "Churches and religious communities" are not mentioned in the law, today's discussion would be different, however, given that they exist in the law, we must observe them in our own way, of course, each from their own angle, each from their own perspective and each from their own profession or interest. It seems that some colleagues selectively involve the hearing authority, and some, apparently, and logic, especially those who have won power from certain NGOs through military methods. I'll talk about them later. I trust Minister Milan Markovic, who is not currently in the O.R., that he will not register destructive religious organizations, but some religious organizations will; well, that's in the bill of law. The question is, which one? Traditional churches and religious communities are already registered. Some have existed for centuries, some millenniums in these areas, and they are registered and registered under some other law. Then, logically, the question arises – what other religious organizations will be registered under this law? These are new religious movements, sectarian-type organizations, which world experts have recognized as socially dangerous. So we didn't invent hot water here in Serbia, and they didn't first appear here in their destruction, but they appeared there somewhere in the developed West. They're detected there, they're watched, they're defined, they're placed in certain legal frameworks, and there's a very serious struggle against them, on several levels. This fight, or that protection, is being fought in a preventive, repressive and educational manner. Today I'm going to talk about those associations of citizens, NGOs of a religious type that have proven destructive. I won't talk about those who are good and who are positive, or those NGOs that are involved in humanitarian work. Let us deal with humanitarian work, and we welcome it, all honors, but the bill mentions certain concepts and we must act preventively. Knowing the work of certain organizations in the world, and also here, at our place, I say, if the minister put this term in, of course, I wouldn't talk about it, but that's why I would talk about some other NGOs, the type of "Resist", from which our distinguished colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, where they were, what they were doing, who planned them, who financed them, who trained them, where they were trained, what they left behind when they passed through some territory – smoke and ash. And this building, this congregation has experienced a very sad fate from such and similar organizations, but I'll talk about them a little later. Many of these organizations, which I described last time, which today, with other examples alone, I will describe, use different masks. They won't come to the ministry and say, "We belong to that and that organization, we know you won't let us register in that way and that way, so let's try it." No, he's going to offer a new look, some new organization behind which he's going to take cover, one, two, three, five, and then these five new NGOs are going to work for them. The plant may be abroad, as it is, but there will be five NGOs here with a stamp, with a jury account, with a memo, an office, etc., that will carry out not what's written on paper in their statutes when they register, but something else entirely. Now I'm going to show you, on the case of such a serious organization, which exists with us, how they do it. Here's just a few: an organization behind which stands the sect of Mun's followers, or the Moon's Unity Church, which brings together particularly academically educated people. It's said like this: "The religious masking organizations that stand before them are the assembles of world religions. Moon calls upon the religious leaders of various confesions to the cleansing movement.' Then, "Collegial Association for the Research of Principles." Look, in these names, there's nothing rhythmic and terrible, but their actions and actions have led to world experts putting them on the list as destructive organizations, to mention them wherever we can, so that someone in a ministry doesn't cheat and register such organizations. Furthermore, the Council of World Religions; the goal of harmonising religious leaders' views, organising international gatherings, means that all participation costs are borne by their organisation. For example, the patron of this organization is a monophystic episcope pair of Paula Gligori, leftist by definition, longtime official of the Ecumenist Church Alliance. Then, "Forum Religion and World Design", an organization for theologians and politicians who are interested in religion, founded in Germany in 1984, "The Association of High Schools for the Study of Principles", "International Book March for the Unification of the World". The goal is to attract the attention of the young, the environment in which the sect plays its tentacles. Then, "International Religious Fund", founded in 1963 as a Conference of Religious Leaders, well, the "Religious Youth Service", the "International Religious Fund" programme for young people of various religions, has a social component, then, "The Youth Seminar on World Religions" – invites students to travel around the world to Mun's account, to meet other religions and learn tolerance. This sounds familiar to me, like some mantra used by some political organisations that flock to the EU's embrace. Then, cultural mask organizations. These have been religious so far, and now we're moving on to culture. The International Cultural Foundation, the bearer of the cultural-political activity of the sect, was founded in 1968 in Japan. Then, the New York City Symphony Orchestra. The Munov movement was founded in 1972. Then, "The Way of Harmony," the moonic version of mystic character, founded by Dr. Suk Jon Hu, serves to recruit through martial arts. There are also scientific masking organizations. The International Science Unity Conference organises conferences of scientists, a section pays travel expenses, can register whoever it wants. Then, "Professorial Academy of World Peace." She was particularly famous for us during the 1990s, and she was passed by by some of our young students, young people and students, as exchange students, spent a year, two, three days in that America and their families paying for that time for $100,000 and more expenses to get them out of the claws of those organizations. Then, political mask organizations. "The Conference of Associations for the Unity of North and South America" – the aim is to fight communism and win the Munovic Ideology within the "World Media Association". "International Security Council," "Federation of Women for World Peace." Moon owns a large industrial complex, Ton Yill, where, among other things, weapons are produced. Mun is also the owner of many newspapers, among other things, and the Washington Times, which we have heard in other exhibitions. This is just one organization and only one part of their mask organization that I've just counted. They will surely come to take advantage of every possibility; if the concept of church and religious community remains in this bill, or in future law, they will surely come and seek their place under the sun in our already tormented Serbia. I see that in this country we do not take very seriously a particular problem, as some countries have understood, as you like to say, developed democracies in the world, how they regulate certain problems, how they protect their citizens, and nobody in this country protects us, not only not to protect us, but literally, they turn us over as a prey, as a free shot to these organizations. On February 29, 1996, the European Union adopted its first resolution against such organisations, and it calls for prevention. Now I'm going to quote just some points from that first resolution on sects brought by the EU, and before that, I'm going to tell you that we don't have a strategy in our country, in our country. It has to be done by several ministries; in laws it is very badly arranged and whenever it is mentioned where it should be arranged, invited, those sitting at the head of certain ministries are looking to escape through closed doors. I don't know what they're afraid of. Let's say, point E, or C: 'Consuming that the activities of a group of sects or sects are a phenomenon that is constantly spreading and which can be seen in increasingly different forms throughout the world'; point E: 'Consuming that certain sects, which are operated in the EU as parts of an international network, carry out illegal and criminal activities and constantly violate human rights and engage in human rights and abuses, sexual abuses, inciting aggressive behaviour, spreading racist opinion, taking away freedom, human trafficking, tax fraud, illegal trafficking of capital, trafficking of arms and drugs, violations of labour rights and illegal medical practices'. Therefore, in this resolution, the European Parliament recommends the following Member States, or those countries that are keenly seeking to become their member. For example, point 3 - asks Member States to examine whether their judicial, tax and criminal rules are sufficient to prevent the activities of such groups from being linked to illegal proceedings. You notice that these are their judicial, tax and criminal rules; today we are talking about a law where certain concepts are mentioned. I don't know why Honorable colleague Milivojevic has something against an orderly state and against a law that should be the most extensive of new proposals, and that of your friends, not my friends, showed me in 1999 what my friends are like, why they don't want to edit those laws to be a little nicer and better. Point 4 - asks the governments of the Member States not to grant automatic status of the religious community. This is known from today's debate, mentioned Article 2(2), which we most speak of. Therefore, point 4 requires the governments of the Member States not to automatically assign the status of the religious community, and to examine, in the case of sectarian organisations involved in illegal and criminal activities, the possibility of withdrawing the status of the religious community, which brings tax relief, certain legal protection, etc. For example, point 7, and there are nine, asks the Commission of the Member States for the highest level of vigilance to prevent illegal sect organizations from using community financial assistance. So some religious organisations will use the possibility of registering under various masks, and then, as legal organisations, they will make certain business plans very quickly and enter various processes for the award of humanitarian aid. In our case, the situation was really drastic and in the previous address of the Assembly on the first draft of the law, which was in December of last year, I talked about several cases, but it was the most drastic case that happened on Belgrade's homestead, where one of the witnesses satanics butchered one child and one young man, and it was a motor saw, and then a senior respected colleague from the ruling coalition appeared, I guess that he would try to disprove what I said, and he started talking about some Amish cult from America, about their wearing hats at every opportunity and comparing it with each other. It speaks of how much there is no understanding of certain problems in this community of ours, which you are leading. You close your eyes, you stick your head in the sand, you only carry out what you're ordered to do. The next example is about the security aspect of these organizations. An organisation called Aumshiriko was in Belgrade in 1993. Their delegation, electrical engineers, came in, and most of all they stayed at the "Museum Nikola Tesla", talked for a few hours, and they were most interested in some of Tesla's secret weapons, so after a while, after only a year and a half, they'd show up on the scene again, very seriously, in Tokyo, throwing poison war poison "sarin" into the subway, where nine people died. Of those thousands of people in the subway, several hundred live like plants today. Of course, Japan is not Serbia, but is a serious country and have gone into very serious repression against them; it is the third segment of protecting its population. They've made over 400 raids, arrested over 600 people, sentenced over 40 people. Of these 40 men, 15 were sentenced to death, and among them their leader Shoho Sahara. If those organizations weren't naive, he said that while the state of Japan and the city of Tokyo were conducting police investigations, they fought back by sending a letter to Governor Tokyo, where his secretary was killed; her hands and eyes were killed, she remained disabled. They also fired four shots in the chest of a police officer in the city of Tokyo, who was badly wounded, but survived. This all points to, all of these actions, both sides, that whenever these problems and these concepts occur, we need to act preventively, we need to get to know the public about what is and what is done to us and what can be done here. Of course, it must also be noted how certain people, who are to implement a particular policy, do not implement a policy of protection, education on certain socially dangerous organisations, events, etc. We ask that this member be deleted, or at least these terms, because, as I said in the first presentation, there are laws of origin that regulate political parties, and trade unions, and religious organizations, and churches. We will see if the minister, or the ministry, will say or do something, or accept that amendment, because I see no reason for certain social organisations to appear in several places, if one law can regulate their work. Of course, there are also NGOs, which I mentioned earlier, mentioning also the distinguished colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, and which I will now mention. The Resistance and its similar NGOs, which have been burning and burning here for the last 15 years, have been included in a very small number of organizations for which we have to take special care of what they do, what they do, and beware of them. This bill and future law treats at least 95% of positive organisations, socially beneficial organisations, which help people, who organize a certain free part of life, or working day, to deal with certain recreation, to socialize, to share experiences, to deal with certain hobbies, to break up the everyday stressful lifestyles in which we have been dizzy for the last twenty years, but there are also those three, four, five percent organizations that really fall into the order of NGOs, and that is how they are represented, and the other is what they leave behind, what they do and what their actions are. I already mentioned the Resistance. For example, I have one moment where I could attach myself to Article 3 where the formulation stands in Section 2 – the objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting an accent on the "violent." What does that mean? That some non-violent methods can be destroyed, that some non-violent methods may be used to remove some authorities in some countries, by organising it through their instructors, which are trained by instructors of some countries that we know very badly here, i.e. countries that are very well known for various Segedins, Budapests during the 1990s and so forth. These organisations can't operate just like that, they need to get some help from certain funds. They're not any secret funds and those countries that make politics around the world today, I mean mostly the United States and their satellites, they don't even do it in secret anymore. For example, I hold in my hand a document in English, signed in Washington, or Washington D.C., on January 12, 2007, and it is an establishment of the United States Army civil afarce branch, meaning, civil-military operations funded by the United States, through several of its NGOs, and signed by Francis J. Hervi himself, secretary of the military. You can find this and similar documents, as well as entire operations, training and work plans, on sites funded by these organizations. Through NGOs, these negative ones I'm talking about and who need to be kept, especially from their financials, many goals are being achieved. A little while ago, a former colleague of mine mentioned some people here, I'm not going to mention their name so I don't give them any meaning, but I want to mention the operations they've been conducting over the past 20 years. Let's say, information or information operations, psychological operations, military deception, security operations, electronic war, computer-based operations, in various stages, just before 1999, something during 1999, in those three months of campaign, as they say, and that campaign worked on our heads, until today. Of course, in 2000, October 5th and what we experience from their dunes to the day of today in Serbia. Then, they create public relations, carry out civil-military operations and defend public policy in those countries. You notice, whenever someone mentions the United States and the like, they immediately find people who oppose it, or at least smile cynicalally, in order to somehow disprove everything that even Americans and their services themselves bring to the public. We're talking about their listeners, their NGOs, or our NGOs that they finance. What do they say next? They are, of course, involved in public diplomacy and are working on the secret information of the international public on the activities of the US government designed to improve the foreign policy objectives of the United States and to expand dialogue between US citizens, institutions and their partners abroad. Then these partners are voting our contract SOFA here in the Assembly. You know that, I've said it myself many times, for me, an act of high treason, because if you approve a foreign army that can absolutely, without any control, stay in your territory, then it's an occupation; you can't control them, you can't verify them, not just them, but also the companies they're working with, so if some company is supplying US military toilet paper from Turkey, and it's going through Serbia, it's not going to be able to check their vehicles, what's going on inside. I said there are several very serious NGOs in those countries that transform huge funds. They're going to paint your school somewhere, bring you a couple of computers, somewhere they're going to have to set up a board that they did, somewhere their ambassador's going to go out at the sports center '25. May he collects plastic bottles, I suppose, in agreement with Minister Dulic, but he will also fund certain NGOs that welcome every conviction, every dragon punishment given to our citizens in The Hague. Let me remind you, the people who led this country, the complete military and political summit, has so far been sentenced with 1,000 years of imprisonment, and some NGOs and their presidents, who are receiving various medals from our country's sworn opponents and enemies, welcome such gestures and acts. Of course, we can inform ourselves on sites, because, as one colleague said earlier in the ruling majority, we need to know that we are working with high-tech devices like computers, that we know that we find certain sources of funding, so that we can get some money for our work, too. However, we differ in something fundamental, we differ in work. With those money they want to finance my life and my work, I wouldn't finance a second of my life. There are some political parties that allow themselves to do so, which have become an instrument in their hands, because it is obvious that NGOs are not enough to win power, and then certain political organisations must also be created to fight for as many votes as possible in this poor and distressed Serbia and implement their policy. We hear very often – we will have two controlled sexes, a left hand and a right hand; I just don't know who will control them. In this bill, which is really necessary, we need to distinguish those organisations that are good, which help the wider community, the organisations that have done a lot, some and bled out, from Triglav, to the Curse, to those organisations that would fight today, burn and burn in this country Serbia. That is why attention should be paid to these other organizations, even when such draft laws are being drawn up. It is not always possible for everyone and everyone to be able to check, uncritically, register, and especially not create a confusing situation, by allowing 14-year-olds and upwards to form a particular organisation, so that they can be both foreigners and two minors, and all they need is a full-time person, who will be a mask for their actions, because those who are unconscious, those who cannot recognize certain temptations that offer such a liberal bill, can make serious mistakes. Those who have not completed some schools, or have not had enough years, do not have the maturity to recognize a particular problem they are facing can also make certain mistakes. These violations have been sanctioned in this draft of the 5,000-dollar bill and up to 50,000 dinars. In order for a child of 14, 15, 16 years of age to enter one association of citizens, all he needs is the signature of a parent or guardian, who assumes responsibility. You have a picture of yesterday, people haven't received a salary in Serbia for 10 months. It's not a pay, it's about ten thousand dinars they call pay. They lie on the rails to be run over by a train, to save their family from another mouth that needs to be fed, and you give their children 14, 15 years of age the opportunity to commit a certain offense and that poor man who was lying on the line yesterday pays 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, 100,000, 200,000, 200,000 dinars for a mistake made by his kid who played a little bit. This proves certain indifference, in that sense, that we have to protect those who are not very aware of every moment in life that surrounds us, have no experience, or have no education, to those whom I have just absorbed, who will gladly betray both God and the people for a yellow bank, or a handful of dollars, who will work against the state and against their families just to have to train or train some corporate shoes, jeans or sweatpants, to move into some stronger car. He will go, as a team mentioned earlier, who was brought up, trained and funded here in Serbia, after Hungary, went to Georgia and made 'Kmar' there, went to Ukraine and made 'Poru', went to Belarus and did 'Zubr'; well, they evacuated from Belarus a little faster than they planned. They also work and work in Russia and lead them, look at the wonders, who? John David Naybor, the man who was arrested here in 2002, February 11th, at the Charic Motel, with former Chief of Staff, Mr. Perisic. When he introduced himself, he said he was a diplomat. When they took him to the military security rooms, he showed a map that he was the director of the CIA for the Balkans. Do you know how this gentleman came to SFRY when and what he was doing? He came as a preacher of the Holy Scriptures, the New Testament, the Pentecostal sects, in Osijek, 1985. It was his mask. Professor and preacher, he organized a religious-type organization, and then he created a network that had been burning and burning here for almost 20 years. When he was kicked out of this country, he did a job so well that the Agency didn't want to give up his services so easily, so they constructed the story and the event that he died in a car accident in Hungary. A bereaved widow there far away, in America, even organized a funeral, so that journalists would break into it only three or four months later, that he painted his hair and shaved his mustache. I say, today, here he is, in Russia, doing what he did here and here, helping, instructing and funding a small number of NGOs, which exist to do some evil. Certain people who gained experience through the NGO Resistance, in the 1990s and 2000s here, and in Moldova two or three months ago did something similar. High-tech assets, computers, which have something called the Internet, or Searcher, so when you ask a few questions, you get countless answers. So we got answers like that. Because of all these events, all of these behaviors, all of these acts, or the misdeeds, that have happened to us in the past, which hurt us terribly and terribly, if nothing else, then because of those victims who have neither been guilty nor due to the debt suffered here from 1991 to 1999, we must fear our false friends who are the financialists of such organizations, given that these'snakes' have bit us, we must also be afraid of lizards. I am not alluding here to a respected colleague, Milivojevic, that he is a lizard, but I say that such situations are and such is the weight of the pain we have survived over the past 20 years, which we are constantly being prepared for, through decentralisation and similar things that are being announced to us, meaning, further breaking the state of Serbia, that we must protect ourselves and protect ourselves, of course, preventively, this is preventive. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted over 70 amendments to improve the bill. I see that other opposition colleagues have submitted amendments, so of the 82 members, as far as I think this law has, there are over 100, maybe 150 amendments. In fact, another law was written in parallel. I propose that the Minister withdraw this bill from the assembly procedure and that this time respect a little more amendments than he has applied, so that he proposes a more concrete bill, which will protect all categories of society and allow all categories of society to join, join, and work on the welfare of our country, that he must not, under some fear or tension, accept everything that he is commanded, open his eyes wide to himself, to his own cheek, accept to his own soul certain events that are being prepared in this country, which some people may cost even heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22035	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing that this bill is on the agenda today and that we have a chance to discuss it again, given the fact that the civil sector in Serbia has been waiting almost nine years for this law. This bill of law has, in some ways, a strange fate. Whenever it appears in the congregation procedure, more specifically, when it is on the agenda, then the government falls. And now we hear various announcements that such a possibility stands. The last time he was withdrawn in December of last year, to allow the ruling coalition to, with delay, adopt the budget by New Year's Eve. The basic reason for the adoption of this law should be to introduce order into the civil sector. This area has so far been governed by two fully anachronized laws -- one since 1982, the other since 1990, which are in no way in line with both the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which Serbia ratified in 2003. It is good that for the first time, the establishment and operation of foreign associations will be regulated legally, given that it functions without any legal basis in Serbia. Today, there are about 200 of them, and they only function based on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' confirmation. When the draft law was on the agenda in December of last year, DSS MPs made very arguments and their objections to the provisions concerning the existence of two registers -- one that would be responsible for registering NGOs from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and another that would be responsible for registering NGOs from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It is good that these provisions in this bill have been rejected, because, as the DSS Parliamentary Group and then, and we now consider it quite natural that one country has a central register, because this would ensure uniformity, efficiency and economicity in keeping the register itself. Despite the sakes of this law, this bill, I'm going to have to refer to some questions that aren't best regulated... May I ask for silence, President?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22037	Gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22038	Despite the benefits of this law, as I said, there are some that we as a parliamentary group cannot agree with, because we believe that they are not adequately regulated. First, it is about giving consent, i.e. opportunities for minors to establish associations with the consent of legal agents. I don't need to be misunderstood here, we're not against those rights that minors already have, but we think that the biller should predict one species, one method of protecting minors from possible abuse. We know that 14-year-olds here speak explicitly – minors from 14 years of age are unable to fully understand the very meaning of this association, nor can they assume in which direction their eventual association can be manipulated. On the other hand, the issue of data protection is also very much related to both minors and adult members of the association. We believe that this issue is getting the greatest importance of the moment when the question of shutting down the associations themselves is raised. The question arises – what happens to the documentation? What's going on with the lists of members of those associations? Who can, after shutting down the association, use these lists, in what way and under what conditions? One of the biggest problems with this bill is the way of funding NGOs. I have no illusion that such a big question can only be solved by this law, but I think that this question should have been better, more detailedly regulated. We know that, roughly speaking, NGOs are funding from both members' contributions and donations. Donations can be both domestic and foreign – by foreign foundations, foreign governments, states, international organisations and individuals. That is exactly the biggest problem we see in manipulating NGOs, both the country itself and abroad. No one in Serbia knows exactly how many NGOs there are, nor can we foresee at all what these are funds that foreign foundations bring to work for NGOs operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There are estimated to be around 30,000, and only 3,000 of these organizations can be called NGOs in the right sense. When we mention NGOs, in particular, there is an impression in the Serbian public that there is a certain Natasa Kandic, Biljana Vuco-Kovačević, Sonja Biserko and others. Of course, I agree with the minister, because I think that perception is wrong. It is necessary to distinguish those NGOs that act in accordance with democratic rules in the state and which contribute to the democratisation of one state and, on the other hand, to distinguish those that are politically active and controlled by foreign governments and stakeholders. There are several very wealthy NGOs in Serbia. We recently had a chance to hear that an NGO, Mr. Deretta's Civil Initiative, has an annual budget of over a million dollars. I think it's very important, both with the public and with the competent state authorities, that they know how to fund it, what are the money, who, in particular, finance it and who finance it, in the end, reports by the Helsinki Committee of Sonja Biserko? Who's funding, mostly, the monstrous lists of undesirables? When some names are at stake here, we're talking about the names of the media's most represented NGOs, then I'm thinking that the provision of Article 50. The bill, which regulates the ban on the work of the association, should not have only a declarative character. What is the name of this non-demand for the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, when Mrs Natasa Kandic, as a personal guest of Hashim Thaci, attends the declaration of independence of the illegal state of KIM? What is it called when Mrs Sonja Biserko says – Serbs must face the loss of Kosovo? Or, when it says – Vojvodina has voluntarily entered Serbia, after that and Yugoslavia, it has every right to state what position it wants? What is it called when, in May 2007, representatives of all the numerous NGOs, who have the highest representation in the media, send a letter to the address of 27 EU member states in which they openly seek to tighten their relationship with Belgrade and even end relations with Belgrade, while all Hague indictees are in front of The Hague tribunal? There's a lot of statements like this. There are many who wonder how it is possible for the Republic of Serbia to look favorably at the functioning of such organisations, how is it even possible that no one has stood up to them so far in breaking up the state itself? Therefore, I believe that the state should urgently address this problem, deal with these matters and make provisions of Article 50. The draft laws on associations no longer have a declarative character, but to live in practice at the most recent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22039	MP Janko Veselinović?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22040	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22041	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22042	Mrs. Djukic, how many minutes do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22043	Twenty-four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22044	Okay. I'll be a little different from my fellow MP, Sladjan Myaljevic. In today's two speeches, he expressed some principled views on the challenges, threats and dangers of a more liberal concept that he advocated, and pointed to problems that this bill essentially does not solve. At first, I'd like to draw attention, first of all, to the public, which translates into "Citizens' Association." This means that the form of organization is plural; it's not single, it's not dual, it's plural, and the plural is slightly more than three. Three citizens and more should join together and their association should get some form of organization known to the law and constitution. The activities they have found must be in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the work must not be done in a way that calls into question the fundamental principles and foundations of the constitutional and legal position of the State concerned. If we go from these basic principles, then we come to the conclusion that, in order for something to exist as an association, there has to be a lot more than three members, or more than three founders, because when it comes to one founder, it's a one-personal form of organization. When there are founders and two members, it's a classic partner. When there are three, I have to tell you, in Batic's Law on Organized Crime, it's already a form of organised crime, it's already something more serious. We believe that a far greater number of persons should be the founders of something that is the association of citizens, because a large number of founders show the seriousness of the initiative, the seriousness of the work they want to deal with and the seriousness of the area in which they want to act. Of course, this bill does not touch political parties, sports associations and religious communities, but practically everything else falls under the influence of this bill. That's where the real problems come in. Sometime in the late 1960s, a Colonel of the CIA, as a young man, retired, took a walk in Washington, and read on some wall an ad that young students organized a meeting, a gathering, where they had to talk about something. He didn't disguise himself as a hippie, he came in, he heard what was said. He commented that it was the most common nonsense compared to the strong U.S. and that a handful of hippies couldn't stop a country, as we now had the opportunity to hear that organized crime couldn't beat the state. When he saw those young bright faces looking at the speaker as a messiah, he concluded that it could be used for a new form of political action, which is destroying the regime, destroying the authorities with non-violent methods. In any case, the colonel realized that the noble ideas of gathering people about what they want to be fishermen, what they want to be divers, what they want to do with sports, what they want to collect postage stamps, where, as a hobbyist, by their affinities and abilities, they can overcome even the range of professionals in these areas, can be misused, of course, all in terms of psychological-propaganda action, seducing mass. He did a project and after a few years, when he defended the project, it became an official CIA project. The CIA has tried many locations to do so. She went to Burma infamously. They were expelled. This type of association was later called "non-governmental organizations". The biggest prank is the name of the NGO. This means that it is some form of organisation of people who have nothing to do with executive power, but what abuse of that term we had to see in 2001, when the Republic of Serbia's budget was adopted, when Dereta led by a large group of NGOs, who sought funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, because they were the 'first fighters' of the five-octobaric changes. They were very strong in the "Condom Against Cordon" action. It has its own history. The question is, if the government is funding an association project, is it an NGO association? You know, it's similar to the media, there's no independent and free media, they're all as dependent and as free as the boss says. Sometimes you know who's boss, sometimes you assume, but you always know who's the editor-in-chief who makes headlines above texts. If the government is funding something, then government subscribers shouldn't say they don't belong to the executive government. They've extended the arm of the executive authority, just as retired Colonel CIA in his work explained and described it. Unfortunately, we have a situation with one paraorganization, the Resistance, and I remind those in power of the SPS that these are personnel trained abroad, which have been used here; apparently, it's not good for parents to scold their children because they're all children for the Resistance. It's an organization that didn't even have its own organisational structure. We knew that there was Professor Cedomir Cupic, so Jagoda Jorga, she ran away, no longer wants to sit with these, but those who fought over the couple at that time at the Resistance today sits in the ministries. The State Secretary at the Justice Ministry is Homen and his office defends Mr Tadic in court proceedings. You've seen for yourself, the board of conflict-solving interests couldn't even point a finger at home. We have a few people here, in the National Assembly, who represented the Resistance, and you know for a fact that it was a paramilitary, violent organization, which burned and burned even this congregation. When you see a representative of the Resistance in the National Assembly, in the O.R., you get the impression that someone has returned to a place where they have done a very significant job. "Resistance" is not known for loving fire, you understand that yourself. It's a similar situation with CESID, so I don't order any further. I could talk about it for a million years, but in order for the audience to understand this passion of the members of the association who say they're NGOs, that fighters are for something, which is something that belongs, more widely, to some part of the segment called freedoms and human rights, to say that then we should assume, let's say, that whoever runs the humanitarian rights fund is a consistent human rights fighter. A consistent human rights fighter must not make any kind of discrimination or differences regarding individuals, either by faith, by color, by material condition, or by political views, etc. However, when you are also known by the government of a popular NGO, human rights fighters, in the public of the Republic of Serbia represent only the rights of the Shipara from KIM, and no Serbian, or Serbian organisation can reach them, or they never say that there are human rights of Serbs, then know that the NGO has disqualified itself, because it has shown discrimination rather than pathological commitment to man and his rights. You see, snow usually falls when it's not his time to see clues. The public sees these clues, and it's good that the public sees these clues, because that way they can better understand the authority that erases these clues, the turkey dots don't apply, now they're good, nice, model gentlemen, they don't come down from the media and they become something called moral ethalon. Now you see how this moral standard was created. The project, made by retired Colonel of the CIA, states that a politicistic form of dissatisfaction should be made. That means there's a group of five-six and there are two-three thousand groups of two-three. They give moral lectures over the years, criticise. Politically, they do not declare themselves, and for a month before the elections, when they have already promoted themselves as persons who have moral credibility, they irrefutablely execute an attack on the electoral body to vote for a specific option. Here, on one very clear case, let's show what it looked like. You remember, in order to somehow survive in power, you first initialled an agreement during an election campaign, and then you signed that agreement, and the next day you got a "cook" in Brussels so that it didn't apply, as far as the other side is concerned. Then the campaign started, so the associations of citizens, and banks, and businessmen, and all in turn created a climate -- there is no alternative, we have to ratify this accession agreement. With this agreement and this act of ratification, we say - we give up customs and your goods can enter here uncontrollably. It's become the main thing. According to the finance minister, we lost 200m euros in booze, as a permanent loss of the Republic of Serbia, a permanent loss that could not be financed by agriculture, a permanent loss that could not be financed by the state's social functions, but someone calculated that it had received political authority, showed the ability to talk to the West, which at the same time kidnapped us and KIM. I'm just a man and I'm confused. Everyone says it should be accepted. Well, how come we little, uninformed, not to accept? It's been a few months, it's been a draw, there's a negative impact on one of these operations, there's a silence, and then there's another story -- well, we're small, we have to run that so-called. Realistics, and it's based on having to accept everything, except to commit suicide, even though we can argue about it a little bit; if we have to, and we'll do it, because we'll get better. Here, "it'll be better" for nine years. Anything to accept, and it'll be better. We're in a situation where the economy is in total chaos, the factories aren't working, people are kicked out of the factory can't concentrate on how to secure existence. The state doesn't have the means to cover that social. Today, Serbia owes more than the former SFRY. What is the impact and importance of NGOs? You're confusing society with terms like, say, "civil society." If there is a civil society, what would be the opposite of civil society? There'd be some company in uniform. Are we such a society, in uniform? I guess in our society there's always been a lot less people in uniforms, and a lot more in civilian suits. It is one media manipulation to create just some impression, to complete the work, by system – hold the water until the masters leave. This law, or the law that would arrange this matter, is what we need. First, because they are still in force, some passed laws, passed immediately after Tito's death. It all changed in the meantime, we're all stronger to learn that what is presented as good isn't exactly in practice so well, but has proved to be pretty bad. There are a large number of citizens' organisations in which they exercise their right to join in for some of their interests andaffinities. What we have spoken today from the SRS and all the criticisms that we have made do not refer to this kind of organization, neither to the mountaineeres, nor to the mountains, nor to the philatellists, nor to the pensioners or anything like that. Where they have their own personal interests, as a collectiveity, they can make them come true, and that's not a problem. The problem is with those who are "outside hungry and inside miserable." The problem is that in this situation, everyone can become, thanks to the media, some person for respect and some imagery, like a transmission to the rich and developed West. I am a major opponent of the concept that citizens' associations can participate in the competition and receive funding from the budget for some of their projects. Why? Because it's the best example of absolute contradiction between the concepts of "citizens' association" and "non-governmental sector". Anything the government finances can't be an NGO. Whoever gives money, he's the boss. I'm also a great opponent of this overemphasizing importance of the economic activity of such associations that have, even, three founders. Just to remind you, there was a man in Kragujevac who registered 60 associations, which in his name, on behalf of members of his family. Why? He couldn't pay the West as a natural person, but he had to go through the association, like a legal person. Look how far you're able to go. You said that the register of these associations is run by the Agency for Business Registers. Why? Why would she run the civil society register? Because those in the ministry are lazy, they know they're gonna get 50-60,000 new associations, and they don't want to keep records, but they kept the second-degree procedure. If a company, a legal person, registers with the Agency for Business Registers, and rejects a registration or some registration problem, who does it complain to? I guess the trial's going to court, huh? No, this is where the Ministry goes. In the first-degree procedure – the Agency, in the second-degree procedure – Ministry, and to find some cover, they say – what the Agency is doing are entrusted business. Everything the Agency does is entrusted to business. Why two different concepts? As they feared the economic activities of these three-member associations of citizens, they inserted a special member into criminal provisions as an economic offense. Is it possible that one association can commit an economic offense? It's a disregard for business regulations. I guess the work of the Citizens' Association is something other than business, and they say – it is essential. Why? Because they know what NGOs are going through big money. I don't know if the public in Serbia is aware, probably one of the journalists, if they can, will make a small analysis of how many NGOs, in any form of organisation and appointment, have participated in the draft rules adopted in the National Assembly. I can mention a few things to you – the Law on Public Information, here we have Doctors in the field of Journalist, former leaders of Radio-Belgrade. He just got the label. It is a miracle what can be done through the association of citizens you call out of charity – the NGO sector, or representatives of civil society. I remember that there are several of these young people's initiatives, which are known for being just a money-laundering transmission, and sometimes they report to give moral lectures by filing criminal charges against some people. Whatever you say that is contrary to the interests of the United States in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they will play it as a hate speech and anyone can get a criminal report; immediately the state of the nation - B 92, some shows on RTS, etc., and then the agency, it is transmitted, to the smallest village must be transferred, because someone needs to be robbed. Why? That's what the Americans are looking for because they haven't finished their dirty work on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Many of the provisions of this bill are ambiguous. They can be interpreted anyway, but the purpose of this bill is to amnesty and legalize everything that has been done so far, to allow them to continue in a new environment, again I draw attention to certain NGOs and individual associations of citizens. No one has anything against cultural and artistic societies, where tradition or modern dance is nurtured, where children are animated, entertained, completed their time for culture, for art, for creation, not to land in the streets, or "condoms go against the cordon". Those who went "condom against the cordon," you know how far they've made progress. That's our problem. We have submitted a number of amendments in order to get an opportunity to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that each of us must make a difference between these associations. Of course, we want to promote those associations that cultivate the tradition of this people, the customs of this people, cultural and artistic creation, all those hobbyists who want our youth, why don't you say all those who have an affinities to something nice, it nurtures it, but we also want to draw attention to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there was a retired colonel of the CIA who designed the form of non-violent change... (President: Will you bring the end, Mr. Krasic, it's been 24 minutes. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22045	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22046	Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad the minister has arrived, because what I think I should comment on in this law is really necessary for the minister to be here. So no one in Serbia knows reliably how many NGOs, that is, associations of citizens and various organisations operating in Serbia's territory at the moment, although some of them have a very long tradition. I mention only the Union of Engineers and Technicians, who have been pulling their work since the 19th century, or the Hunting Union, which, also, since the 19th century, has been a tradition of labor, but the largest number of these organizations has been formed in these 1990s, in the last decade of the 20th century. With its number and wide range of actions, this third sector, as these organisations and associations are otherwise called, has become a real partner to the state and I must say, the truth works, and so is counterpart Milica Radovic, a DSS MP, spoke, the largest number of these associations and organisations are working on the benefit of citizens and solving the needs and interests of citizens. However, there are a number of organisations that are working to harm the Serbian state and which are also a disgrace to this third sector and to the state of Serbia. So, this third sector, these organizations and associations are created, in fact, as an initiative for citizens to solve some particular problem, some problem that one part of the population is interested in, so we have an extremely large number of organisations, type of environmental organisations, working with old people, working with children, with people with disabilities. They are indeed working to benefit these populations, these parts of the Serbian population, and their work needs to be spoken out loud and publicly. On the other hand, the area of association of citizens is currently covered by two anachron laws, one from 1982 and one from 1990. They are not in accordance, at present, with the Constitution, and they cannot cover everything the new trends are wearing, so that the state, the serious state and has no instruments of control over these organisations and that is what citizens most often see and talk about as the biggest problem. The basis for the adoption of this law is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Mitrovica Constitution that Vojislav Kostunica has adopted and it offers very high standards of rights and freedom and great freedom of association. I have to say, I'm sorry that this law that's in front of us today, which really needs to be brought into this space, which is empty, in this vacuum, wasn't brought in in November 2008, because from then on, it's been, in my account, about eight months, and that's another extra time space where all sorts of ugly things have been happening, just from these organizations that I've been talking about. It is obvious that the text that was offered in November 2008 was updated, in that the objections and comments of opposition MPs were respected, among other things, and what we from the DSS were saying, which was the issue of these registers, double registers, one central and one related to Vojvodina. We then said that it was, about, a political concession that the ruling coalition must give to Vojvodina. Practice and time have shown that what we've been saying was true, because at the moment, when the Statute of Vojvodina is a little off, it stops and the need to make this register in Vojvodina, so obviously some problems have arisen in the ruling coalition, I don't know, but the fact is that what we've proposed and adopted. The biggest complaint that we have as DSS on this law concerns the status of minors, which this law handles at several points. First of all, the law says that underage persons up to 14 can also be party founders, of course, with the consent of their legal advocates, and minors up to 18 years old, so you, up to 14 years old, can, with the consent of parents, be members of certain associations and certain organisations. It seems to me that the Ministry, as a legislator of this law, goes through a line of less resistance, believing that the parent's signature as consent is sufficient guarantee for the state to remove responsibility from itself and to transfer all responsibility for the ignorance and ignorance of the parents to the legal representatives of the children themselves. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the fact that, while respecting the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child has the right to join in organisations and associations, the first position of the Convention says that the child is up to 18 years old. We have had an amendment intervention, and we believe that the exact same treatment should be the one up to 14 years old, as well as the one up to 18 years old, and that consent of parents is needed in both cases. What is practice and life, it is completely different from these parameters, shows that there are different kinds of abuses of this right that children should have, which is acquired right, and we as a party have nothing against this right, and these abuses are mainly done on this field of ignorance and mutation of various organizations, so that we have various abuses, e.g. Child trafficking, child pornography, various kinds of sexual abuses, various situations that no one can benefit from, and I think the proposer must have that in mind. I'm talking about mutating these organizations. None of them will say to themselves that they will deal with this or that useless activity, or dangerous activity, but will say that it is a humanitarian organization. For example, at the time of these great wars in Africa, there was a humanitarian organization of international character, called "Zoina Ark". She saved children from the war on affected areas, and these children, unfortunately, ended up in a wide chain of pedophilia in Europe. Behind a Dutch organization called "Martin", which was also humanitarian and charity, stood the same chain of paedophiles. So it is very important that the state maintains the right and the ability to control all of this, because one serious state must make sure that it is the one with the greatest responsibility for a very young population. When you become a member of an association or an organization, you fill in a certain approach. The text of that access makes people from that organization and you enter your data. When it comes to minors, he does not only input his data, but also enter information about his parents. A vast space for a very broad abuse and the possibility of protecting has to be taken over by the state. The state passed the Data Protection Act. He's got parts that refer to juvenile data. We think it's very important that the state says - I take responsibility, I'll find the instruments. In our amendments, we offer such instruments, that we really protect both children and their families from situations that are very dangerous. Imagine what could happen to the data from an organization that said to itself that they would be involved in the education of talented children, when you talented children, as a country, must be viewed as a resource for the future, and all this data very clearly, on a plate, is placed on someone who wants to abuse them. You don't have a chance to ban it, you don't have a chance to stop it. I think we have to take care of this together and I don't see any reason why you're looking at us as an opposition who wants to knock down the law after and after, we're just offering to improve it and we have amendments like that. The DSS is not against the rights of children who have acquired rights remaining and being detained. You've misread us. I don't think there's any room for that. We have nothing against it, we just need to point out that it's very important for the state to be the one who has the mechanisms to control all of it, to keep things in its hands, to have an increased degree of control and to prevent child abuse in this way. I just want to say one more thing, which was controversial and I can see that you didn't fix it in this text. It's a question of what happens to documentation when an association or organization stops working? All that data is going somewhere. They're going to whom? Is it possible to use them for some purposes they're not intended for? That's what you have to take care of. I think what we said should be taken seriously and that's all I have to say about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22047	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Jadranka Jovisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22048	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us today the draft law on associations. A large number of my colleagues today have spoken in favor of this law, so I will join them in that regard. As a first advantage, I would like to point out that this law for the first time has defined both domestic and foreign enterprises, associations operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is important is that these laws of the association are treated as NGOs, which can be established with at least three natural or legal persons who have complete freedom of association. It's a second, very important advantage of this law. It is this freedom of association that allows all associations to have full freedom of operation in achieving their objectives. However, what is important to emphasize? It is important to say that they must in no case violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in their activities in order to achieve their objectives, in any case they must not violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, they must not violate human or minority rights and in any case must not propagate any kind of hatred, racial, religious, national, gender, any. The important advantage of this law is the possibility of registering an association. It's the newspaper this law gives us. I must stress that the possibility of registering is entirely arbitrary. You don't have to register, however, in which case you won't have legal status. So this law allows any association to register in the register of the association. Also, in the future, the registry will be run by the Agency for Business Registers and only the association will gain legal personality status. If that does not happen, the association shall be subject to civil partner rules. And that's one of the papers this law gives us. What might interest citizens and citizens of Serbia, is who can, in fact, establish an association. There's been a lot of controversy here today. A minimum of three persons, physically or legally, can establish one association, while at least one of them has residence or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they can be commercially capable. Also minors who are 14 or more years old can establish an association, but they must have the consent of their legal representative, it is a key issue. When we talk about who might be a member of the association, it's also entirely voluntary. Anyone can be a member of the association, as well as be able to establish it, too, years are no problem. Minors under the age of 14 can also be members, their membership is signed by their legal representative. And minors who are 14 or more years old can be members of the association, with them being able to sign their own membership, but consent is given to them by their legal representative. I'd have to point out something I said at the beginning, and it's about stopping the association. I'd like to put an accent on the labour ban. Therefore, no breach of the Constitution, no breach of integrity, territorial, first and foremost of all, of the Republic of Serbia, shall be allowed to propagate any kind of hatred, national, religious, racial, and no harm to human or minority rights. In this sense, when it comes to stopping the work of the association, I would concentrate on this, because I think it's very important to stress it all the time on the occasions where we live. So no violation of human or minority rights or any propaganda of hate. As far as foreign associations are concerned, this law gives us one more newspaper, or advantage. Previously, they weren't listed in the register, although, in fact, they worked on our premises. But now they can register, have the opportunity to register associations, and the registry will be run by the Business Registers Agency in the future, which will be another advantage, given that a large number of these associations are also engaged in humanitarian work. That's another advantage, along with the ones I've listed and the ones that have listed today by my colleagues. I consider this law really good, clear, I think it will be useful for Serbian citizens and citizens, and in this sense, the MEPs of the ZES Group will vote for it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22049	Thank you. It's this list of candidates for the word "exhausted", or time spent. Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups, before I conclude the search in principle, I ask, do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise the right to do so under Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, and the Winters, when this law was on the agenda, so it was magically withdrawn, I was talking about the same subject I'm going to talk about today. The law on associations is both necessary and necessary and it is true that it is brought everywhere in the environment, in most countries, or in all countries, and that perhaps, as far as that goes, we are late. Although this field has been quite legally resolved so far, some other things have not been resolved in this society, some other relationships resulting from this are not resolved and allow for the possibility of widespread abuse of such a law. What, from a professional point of view, is lacking in this law, and what I really think is missing, not only in this law, but in the lack of some other laws that these countries in the environment have as accompanying laws, and those laws they practice, is this very relationship with the association of minors. The minister mentioned that it had been a practice before, in the 1980s. It's also post-war practice, but it was then in the concept of state policy. If you take the pioneer union, we can’t talk about it being spontaneous and the children being spontaneously organized, but it was in the organization of the state, which carried out clear educational goals. However, everywhere in the environment, although in BiH law, the law of Republika Srpska, some other laws, is not explicitly stated that minors can set up an association, that a minor at the age of 14, can be the founder of an association, with the authority of guardians or parents, there is no such thing, but there is one other law that is not spoken of here, which also has all the regulated countries of Europe, and also countries in the environment. It is a law that regulates the evening exits of minors, which is extremely important for this law to be implemented in the right way and to have the right and true sincere purpose for these young people. What is necessary at this time to bring into society is a law that will regulate the night outings of young, or minors. Both in BiH and Germany, and in all Western countries, and Switzerland, and England, minors cannot be in the city's nightlife after 23 hours. The fines for parents, or guardians are huge. In BiH, in particular, 600 converting marks is a punishment if a minor is found after 23 hours in the city. In our case, it became a practice for 14 - year - olds from 22 o'clock, mostly up to five, six or seven o'clock in the morning, to come out. This practice is accepted silently in society as a model of behavior, and then you have other harmful consequences, you have an increase in juvenile delinquency and is no excuse for us, nor a good excuse for saying that a minor is guilty, that he can answer. From whether we have a younger or older delinquent, society has great damage. What's problematic about allowing minors to get together is the number. Number three is one psychological, social border where individuality ceases and the group begins. The group imposes a leader, with adolescents very important. Adolescents are considered in psychological interpretation to be people, i.e. persons with yet incomplete, unformed and standards and psychological resolution. They tend to be unbalanced. If we have other social problems like we have in this society, if we have this much increase in unemployment, if we have this amount of hopelessness, the economic crisis behind our necks, if we have everything that follows this transition, which is actually a quiet revolution, or revolution that doesn't have an armed character, but that's why it's not without victims, then we'll see that the tribute to all of that is extremely great. Why, among other things, must someone talk and finally have to start thinking about this law, which has brought all the serious countries, which, however, allow some of the freedoms that we are seeking, but out of these freedoms must come some rights, some responsibilities and some obligations? One is in the set, not individually, so they don't have what's happening to them. After all, we had a recent one-monstrous case, that three fourteen-year-olds went into one completely harmless exact situation, in some cherry theft, and then two of them killed a third, in the most monstrous way. We've all been disgusted about it, but we haven't wondered why these excesses, which have been happening very often for the last ten and fifteen years, haven't been, say, thirty years, in our adulthood. Now, I have to say one other thing, very important -- why is it silenced, why is it allowed for minors in Serbia to get out from 22 to 05 in the morning? Why isn't there a campaign to keep parents from doing that, even if they're not the exception? It should be explained to them that there is also a medical unhealthyness of such outcomes, that the hormone melatonin, which turns into seratonin, is very important in their development, that it is produced only at night, when the organism is brought into a state of sleep, and that in the West because of that night's work is paid far more, in those same countries, because when you bring the organism into a state of sleep for a long time, when you need to be able to sleep, because man has a biological watch, the effects on the brain remain more permanent. I claim to you, as an educational worker and as a parent, following this phenomenon, that it is a project that is systematically implemented over young people. We are deaf about this need, which has been promoted by all of Western Europe, that young, or minors, at least can't spend the night on the streets. That's why we have a problem with Black River, not Black Rivers as Black River, but the problem of Black River users, which is why we have the silent opening of new private drug clinics. When are the minors gonna get the drugs? It's the easiest night, when there's no control of tired parents, but they're on their own, the streets, drug dealers, who are always awake and waiting for their new clients. So I wonder - what motives, whose motives are behind it? If we allow this association, then society must have other mechanisms that will resist the harmfulness that can result. We have no guarantee that three minors will not team up under the authority of someone with very bad intentions, that he will not invest in it. Of course, these are all things that we can say – it can be and it doesn't have to be, but there are great possibilities, because we gave them one mechanism, and we didn't create control mechanisms that will directly prevent them from affecting minors in a bad way. Only because of that element did I say the winter, when we talked about this law, and now I say that from my point of view it is unacceptable, although this law has many and most good things and we need it. We've had this area in place so far, and it's really important that it settles. Who is everything and how can affect this most important resource of ours, which are our children, we need to look out for the most serious and responsible. I think we and Mr. Minister, when he was on the Committee to explain to us the previous form of the law, the previous bill, we talked about it. I think we even agreed on that, because that is the most painful point of this society. We can't just pass one law, we have to fix the area, we have to even arrange all the control mechanisms of a phenomenon that we legally regulate and its possible consequences. So that's the solution to a social problem, and we in society, at this point, have a serious problem when it comes to minors. Only one who doesn't want to see that problem can't see it. When we talk about when they can be able to work, when they can be treated by law to be able to respond, or delinquently, when they can start a family, well, do you really believe that six-year-olds, to whom the law gives that possibility, in this country, that they can support the family at this point? Can anyone believe that he can solve the family issue at this point at the age of 16, if only the basic system of education passes, if there is no other mechanism in society that allows him to do so? Well, here are the people who spent decades in some companies, stayed on the streets. His parents stayed on the streets, powerless to help him. So it's not just legal. There is something behind which there must be logic, reason, experience, above all, experience and all other social circumstances. (President: Time) That's what we really have to respect. That's why we won't support this law, just from that point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22051	Thank you. Mr. Secretary wants to speak to us. Here you go. Mr. Shami. Here, you have 11 minutes. Do you want to put the card back on?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22052	Thank you. Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, I have already said that the DSS thinks it is worth passing the law on associations and that it also supports in principle one approach which, in the extreme line, should be as liberal as possible, therefore, that, without greater difficulties, anyone who wants to organise it in some association. It may sound paradoxical, but it seems to me that some of the organisations and associations that have been acting, or operating in Serbia, are probably also the biggest opponents of this law. When an illusion is created that there is no association law, then it can also mean that the state does not support the idea of an association; then the price of such organisations on the world market is much higher. Some of my fellow Members spoke about these and such organizations. We, and that's what I said, with our best intentions, have submitted 28 amendments, exclusively in order to fix some parts of the text, to explain some, perhaps, by my taste, too many declarative sentences. I'll give you a few examples, and I've already given you an example of where we're asking to resolve the issue of legislation left to individual Esnaf organizations. I ask the Minister to consider this proposal for a new member of 81. We have made some other suggestions -- let's say, in Article 2, we suggest that in the sentence, "the secret and the paramilitary associations are prohibited", deletes the word "secret". In fact, it's, like, a contradiction basically. This law does not deal with secret associations, nor does the Ministry of Ministers deal with secret associations. Secret associations deal, by the logic of things, with the police. Of course, if the association is secret in order to bring down constitutional order or work against the law of the Serbian state, the police will react. If someone set up a secret group of fans, I don't know, Manchester United, or Sharon Stone, this other one would have more members, the police probably wouldn't do that, but they don't need your ministry either. Next, in Article 5, which you are talking about, you have an undeniable sentence that the work of the association is public. We suggest that in some of his activities the association, at its internal meetings, can also exclude the public of work. There can always be more associations that deal with the same things and that are each other's competitors. If you and I have competing associations, and it's just standing so declaratively "the work of the association is public," I will be very pleased to come to spy on you, to hold your internal meetings. We suggest that the number of founders of the association increase to five, not to make it difficult. We demand that all five be citizens of Serbia, not to make it difficult to create an association, but it seems to us that if one member, as far as is enough, one citizen of Serbia can establish an association, it is not an association, it is an individual thing. I'll draw your attention to a few more things. We suggest adding similar to what we have proposed in political parties, when it comes to the name of the association. It is not enough to write, which is fine, that the name of the association cannot contain the elements provided for in Article 3(2) of this Act. You know what I'm talking about. It's all right, but it can't even associate with some associations with its name or, even, political organizations that existed in the past, which we can't essentially support exist. For example, I can formally have everything prescribed by law, and then call the Association of Redshirts, or the Lover of character and the Work of Adolf Hitler, etc. Also, in Article 35, where you're saying that the government prescribes the amount of compensation, that's fine, we've suggested a small addition, how much it can be the most. It's simply because sometimes a government that wants to choke the association can happen, and then it's going to prescribe a fee of, say, a million euros to register as an association. So that it doesn't happen, and our goal is not to make it happen, we should put in some sort of indicative sum. For example, we have suggested one average salary, that it should not be more than that, of course, can be less. We think it should be brought in. We also suggest that wherever the word "Autonomial province" appears in a single one, the word "autonomic province" is written "pulse." I mentioned article 81 to you, and that would mostly be it. We have more remarks, which Mrs Vojić-Markovic spoke of, regarding minors. So, the DSS doesn't think that minors should be excluded from the association and not given them the right, just asking for the matter to be more pedantic. We will use the right, when we discuss in detail, to discuss our amendments in more detail. I considered this appropriate to say now, simply so that I would give Mr. Secretary enough time to consider what amendments the DSS intends to accept. I believe the fifth time God will help and this time you will adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22053	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Mr. Todorovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dejanovic, you are violating the Rules of Procedure, Article 93, Article 1 indent 5 and Article 95 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have not informed the Assembly, although we have received the list here, there are three MPs left – Natasa Vukkovic, Mihajlo Puric and Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilović. I suppose they still have time to discuss, but you haven't called them at all. You may have received some notice, but it's not a private notice for you. This notice is, above all, for the congregation, for the MPs of the congregation. We have received this list of speakers, but it seems to me that you consciously want to deceive the citizens of Serbia, because by calling the MPs of the ZES, who would give up the discussion, you would show that your arches differ when it comes to the work of the Assembly. You've formalized it to pointless limits. It is enough for an MP to sign up at the entrance of the hall and here and the entire mandate not to enter this hall, except when a quorum is required and to vote, and he doesn't have to say a single word. That is why you are avoiding showing Serbian citizens that the ruling majority's MPs are acting exclusively as they think they benefit most, not as best for Serbian citizens. Your goal is to move to the second item of the agenda by six o'clock, probably the timetable for Europe is waiting for you. I guess you're catching him in 2022 or 2023, so you're in a hurry, and that's why you're willing to break the Rules of Procedure, which I don't think is an honor... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And you'd have to take care of it anyway, even in case you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22055	The messengers you mentioned have given up, just as they sometimes give up yours and we agree, in a communication between you and me, not to read them. Therefore, no member of the Rules of Procedure says that this is my obligation. I can accept the suggestion, and I won't give you any measure, because there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure or abuse. This time, it really wasn't. Otherwise, for characterizing me as a person using deception, you have no argument. You'd better analyze some that are closer to you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this law I have the same relationship as the minister himself. He proposed the law, we discussed it, we submitted amendments, and then when it was necessary for his friends in the government, he gave up the law to be on the agenda, that is, to complete the debate on him. He removed it from the procedure and waited for it to return to the agenda, and then came to the gym to convince us that it was very important for Serbia. So your law is not important to Serbia at all, Mr. Minister, as it is not important for you to fight for this law to complete its normal procedure. Although the Assembly was in some teatung, it seems to me that you have told us that it is very important to arrange the space in which the organisations in Serbia operate, and then it turns out that it doesn't matter at all. Speaking of this law, let me ask you, is it possible that the new bill provides for sanctioning what political organisations in Serbia are now doing, for example, the DS and the SPS, which are collectively repealing the regular elections for local self-government, and then in an unsuspecting campaign, have divided the electoral units between themselves within four days. One pays unpaid phone bills, one unpaid electricity bills, another – unpaid utility bills; 150 machines are currently organised by these organisations, at two locations where local elections are repeated, in the Voždovac municipality?- I'm sorry. This proves that no law is good enough to prevent the criminal association of individual political parties. So, Mr. Minister, you can talk to us here from Coolin Ban and good times, you can convince us that your wish is, that your goal is to make sure that the space in which political parties and other organizations act is fully regulated by law. You can convince us that our goal is to be one normal, democratic procedure and probably to make it so that your party is still dominant and that it can still expect it to win all the choices it appears in. Something good has happened for Serbia since September last year, Mr. Minister, and what happened in September, has somehow matured and produce fruit today. The fruits are that your party is not the strongest in the Republic of Serbia. He's getting naked now. The MP before me said that you all serve the shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure, or the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, in order to prevent us from showing everyone in the National Assembly how interested they are in the laws or fate of Serbia. It's not just the conduct of the MPs of the current ruling majority, which is like a soap balloon, flying, and it seems to you that it's strong, and it can be scattered at any moment. There are other kinds of behaviors, your attitude to the public of the work of the National Assembly. Do you really think we should wait 1:30 or 2:30 a.m. to see what was going on in the Assembly, and then the Public Service announces the reruns of some basketball games 15 years ago? Do you really think political organisations and other associations don't really care what results we've achieved in the elections, so the public service can't say who's leading by 15 o'clock on Monday afternoon, or at least who claims to have done it in those elections? You know very well how organized you and we are, that at half past nine, we knew the results of the election. Mr. Minister, you have taken an ungrateful role. I appreciate you, I've known you a long time, and you've been a great MP. You're the Minister of Use. You'll be the one who'll be passing the law. Here, now you've also been authorized by the municipal police to talk about how there will be more police now, what we feared since 1994-1995, when the idea first appeared in Serbia. That's when we really threw her away with rude behavior. Today you seem so strong that you can introduce it. I'm surprised there are no regional police, because of this division of Serbia, not the region. So the municipal police will probably have some regional character soon. It's stupid to have a region, and they only move within one municipality, because when they have their own region, they want it to grow better than it does. So, part of it is the naked behavior of DS and SPS, which wants to meet two unsatisfactory goals. You may realize them, but the citizens of Serbia know everything, even when you shut down the television broadcast. One goal is for the DS to have more votes than the SNS, as of today, and the future impossible in Serbia, and the other is to kidnap another electoral list one mandate and give it to the Socialists, so that you have the authority to form a local government. Do you think that's Serbia? If that wasn't prevented by this law, you shouldn't have come, Mr. Markovic, to the Assembly. This law should have been clear, that we are made by people who can say to themselves that they are honorable, that no one calls us wicked. You know very well, I lost one election to two million and 200,000 votes with 70,000 votes less. If the situation had been the other way around, if the one who now allows you to do this in Ripanja and the White Creek had less 70,000, you would have beaten us up until your candidate, Boris Tadic, was president of Serbia, at your will, and not at the will of the people. You're showing it clearly now. There's no dignity in you, you can't lose the election, you can't win the election, you can't compete. Someone made a mistake here, so he tried to help you do it, and even forced his members of the Electoral Commission to vote for your decisions. What is this decision when we all count at the polling station, sign the record, determine how many votes have been won and then something happens on the road from the polling post to the municipality, so there's one ballot more, so you can cancel the election?- I'm sorry. In this I would not participate if I had no bread to eat, and those who took part in it should imagine why they have such a steep fall, and those who are in power, and those who are in opposition. Serbian citizens see everything and know everything. So, you should've come, Mr. Minister, to say - forwarders, do you have a crust of bread to give me, I won't be a minister anymore, because these are trying to rob you of victory in the election. We'd separate you as much as we could, we wouldn't even make you move in with us. Today, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, that as Rasim Ljajic, you have made a statement that this is dishonest and that you will not participate. And what can I say to you today, that you repeat the regular elections to win? What would you do if it were more serious? Let me say, in local self-government, who knows what coalitions are going to be made, will there be additional elections, will we go to these elections again? But you, after 12 years of government, can't say – people, we don't have the most votes. What can I say to you, sir, for signing this bill? I don't know if you've even included the amendments you once accepted. If it is, it's just a sign that the law was bad. What can I congratulate you on in that local self-government? Before you, they wouldn't allow an extraordinary local election. Ask the socialists. They waited two years to hold extraordinary local elections in municipalities where power fell, and today you, socialists, suddenly join that same manner. I told you the other day, you totally joined. They act like you once, except you were severely punished by their ally from the West, and today you are driven by their allies from the West. You have coverage, it will not rebel against this behaviour. It doesn't have to rebel, let the citizens of Serbia rebel, let those who are enrolled in the voter lists rebel, to show their will which you now want to undo. Where's Mrkonjic today? Today, 150 machines work in two polling stations. It comes to me to file reports, to bring it down to you, to repair the situation in the White Stream for another 15 days, and in one part of Ripnja, to perhaps get men and water, finally. Maybe it's not enough just to pay them unpaid bills for electricity. If it is democracy, we will not participate in such a political struggle. We will not participate in such a political organisation of parties. You want to ban political parties because of some name that associated you with negative personalities from the past. You're to be banned after this behavior in the first election you've lost. What did you think you were winning forever? Well, you could've stayed there, you could've won forever. We'd always act like the wrong ones who lose, and they can't wait to lose. Today the situation is different. Today, a block has been created against you, stronger than you, and don't stop us from stealing, stealing, or Marriquettes, or monkeying. I called your president and he said he had no idea what it was about. He's lying, he's organizing it all. The party's president cannot help but know what the party is doing to him, and the president of Serbia cannot help but know what more than half of Serbia is thinking. We, who are now more than half of Serbia, think Boris Tadic fakes election results and uses you as pawns. You'll be remembered as the people who did it. Milosevic didn't sign the election, either, but you remembered the people who published the results that night. That's why I'm sick of watching you act in the National Assembly, playing Democrats, teaching people the wrong way of understanding democracy. It's an honor to win. It's an honor to lose. He who can stand defeat is more honorable than he who rejoices a little when he wins. There's a new wind blowing, so adjust to it. Don't stay away from anyone else, 'cause there's nothing going on. Everything that happens happens in the center. That's why, Mr. Minister, it's a nice law and it's written on nice paper, and until the president changes this paper, do as many laws as possible, so that we don't have to stick our fingers out for a worse kind of paper, which, as a savings, the president will certainly assign to you, but law enforcement, you increasingly employ people in the administration. Serbia's only employer becomes a state, DS, SPS, G17 plus and other satellites. Now you are employers, hiring your people, your friends, aunts, sisters, your servants, and everyone in the state administration. That you have opened a factory, that you may fill it with the workers of your parties, and that the factory is flourishing, that we may congratulate you. What's your factory? Local Self-Government, Regions, Privatisation Agency, Stock Exchange, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, MUP. Now we've reached the next law, which you're chasing to begin the debate before six, so it'll be over tonight. You think this people don't see it, that these election results are random and that the people made a mistake one day. No, it's not. Serbian citizens have understood everything. These elections are all over Serbia and you know it well. Two municipalities in Belgrade and one in the interior, it is your electoral body throughout Serbia. No more of those results from a few months ago. You've ruined it, and you've further weakened the position we found you in when we formed the break. I know it's past your time to call the election and that you can't win anymore, but don't torture us, don't torture Serbia, don't blackmail the only others, let the newspaper shave as Dinkic said – if the Democrats and the advances are anywhere in the alliance, I'm leaving the government. What's Boris Tadic talking about? Is it male or female? If he's a man, let him say you won't blackmail me. If she's a woman, let her say so. That's right, Junior. Something is, I don't think it's half-half. I don't know the man well enough, but if I were in the DS, I wouldn't give up the discussion, but I would say, I have one question for the president of the DS: How will he answer this blackmail? You might have kicked me out, like I did from another party, but that's how you live, that's how politics is run, not just wages and benefits, travel expenses, membership on boards. That's the purpose of politics. That's how you got us in a bad voice. That's how the people look at us now. He sees us as people who watch as much as possible to charge. Please don't get me those who don't have the right to give it to anyone else. As far as we're concerned, good luck to you and this law and everyone else you bring before the election, but it would be much better to check your rating, because all of us who are involved in politics and all of Serbia's citizens know that relations in Serbia are no longer what they were a year ago and that Serbia should give an opportunity to choose those in whom it now has confidence. Serbia shows you this in all the choices you can schedule and I'm sorry we worked so well for these local elections, as you will now find it difficult to decide on a new measurement of strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22057	Mr. Nikolic, you've been past the agenda all along, you've been talking about obviously your problems, and about correct co-operation within the ruling coalition, about the Public Service, about the elections, about Mr. Markovic. I have a need to ask you to adapt the vocabulary to the dignity of this House, in which there is also a woman of parliament. I don't think it's right, because of gender equality, that as a man chosen by citizens, even from my Woodland, this is how you present your relationship to women, to spread that atmosphere. I really ask that your relationship, which you have previously expressed in relation to women, be not a characteristic of your relationship with this House. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic has a word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Before you were advertised by the Rules of Procedure Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. You'll get your word right after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22058	Your Honor, Madam President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure by not interrupting the speaker at the moment he started talking out of the agenda. Let me remind you, this is Article 103(1) – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. It is not, Madam President, enough that at the end of this political speech, political tyranny, you gave a warning. This isn't the first time. We're already used to it, but I'd like to say that in this political speech, a lot of insults and inaccuracies have been spoken to this political tiara. As far as the SPS is concerned, he's fine, thanks for asking. I also want to tell you that the SPS doesn't cancel the election. Those who know less about politics know that too. I also want to say that I am not going to comment on the criminal association of political parties. That's what he says about who says it. I'd fall to that level if you'd comment on it, which I don't want to. Also, SNS officials who in the election campaign call SPS voters, LDP, SRS extremists, are again talking about them. Let me remind you, Mr. Nikolic, the SPS didn't have a ghastly fall. (President: Time. The SPS is pleased to announce because the only coalition that has received more votes... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22059	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22060	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you've done a rough insinuation about my relationship with women. That's not true, and you know it well, but something happens to you now that you're joining someone who's been talking about me that way, so it turns out it's not true. I used what you in Šumadia know very well that it is used when it is said to a man – whether you are a man or a woman. I didn't insult a woman, I asked a man if he could react like a man. You can't expect a woman to always defend herself, she's weak and weak, but a man always has to defend himself. After all, what I'm explaining to you, you can lecture me on the subject of holding and I'm really sorry that you're even twisting your science. I don't know what I offended Mr. Petronievich when he doesn't know why the results were canceled. If you knew, Mr. Petronievich, you'd admit it was a crime, because you're a citizen, at least one who came to the polling station and his sanctuary, gave his voice to someone; you didn't like it, and most of the people you have in the municipal election commission, you have annulled that vote. It's a crime. It wouldn't be a crime if you hit him with a slap, it's a violation, and you wouldn't even be responsible for a crime, and you stole his sanctuary, the voice he gave to the SNS. What you don't like, I don't know. Why weren't your election board members as safe as you, so they could find any objections? No, but you, the chieftains of the parties, have found a complaint. You didn't like it. This is my vocabulary, indeed addressed to those with whom you are now in the coalition. I never beat you, I never fired you from work... Finish it, please. )......................................................................................................... I wasn't stalking you. That's what they were doing to you. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22061	Mr. Minister, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22062	Thank you. At the end of this discussion of the Association Law, I'd like to say that we're going to consider all these amendments that have been submitted, that I think this is a very important law and that we're a few years behind on this law. I'm sorry he was pulled out of the procedure. The reason for the withdrawal was to make a budget, it's clear to everyone, but we used that time to put amendments and criticisms on that law that was heard in that debate. I think we've put them all together, except for some who couldn't come together as a concept. I repeat, this law is important that the right of all of us, all of our citizens, to join together, to make ourselves realistic, on the best possible basis, completely liberal, and, on the other hand, for the state to establish complete control when it comes to the material business of NGOs, or associations, because, as you all know, there is a shadow in the work of NGOs, precisely because they were not transparent sources of funding, especially those sources that come from abroad. I'm sorry that the debate on this law has served and that some other topics are being processed, but it speaks of applying to this law, specifically, to the provisions of this law, and there is no, at least not in some significant number. I must admit that I don't understand the New Serbia and DSS' remarks regarding the provisions of the laws I have taken from the Bill of Law, which was authored by Mr Zoran Loncar. Does the court of law and a provision change whether you are in opposition or position, or whether it is from your party or not? Obviously so, or perhaps it would have happened if then the minister here had no majority to pass the law. In any case, I sincerely hope that there is enough majority here to vote this bill. I think our citizens will understand the provisions of this law, take advantage of the opportunity, to achieve freedom of association. We want to speed up the freedom of association. Citizens' associations are very useful to every democratic society. Citizens' associations deal with topics that are not often dealt with by institutions. Citizens' associations often manage to put first the problems we as politicians don't see. There are many different associations of citizens, from those dealing with environmental protection, through associations dealing with the protection of various vulnerable groups, persons with disabilities, child protection, the protection of the elderly, to those associations of human rights and freedoms. We need all these associations, and all these associations need help in their work, and that's why we passed this law. I sincerely hope that this law will last, and that there will be more and more associations of citizens, and that there will no longer be any doubt in their motives, in their ways of funding and their work. I thank everyone for the discussion, I think it was very constructive and correct, and I promise that we will take all the amendments that we have submitted seriously and everything we find possible to adopt, that we will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22063	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm finishing the initial search. Mr. Obradovic, are you advertising the Rules of Procedure? There was nothing offensive or vague and you have no basis for replication. I'm sorry, I can't give you my word. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNAL POLICE (principle) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I would like to remind you that, according to Article 94, the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours and that it has been deployed in the following way: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by MPs for this item of the agenda: Milica Petronijevic – the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, Jovan Palalic – the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica Group, Milan Avramović – the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22064	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to say that in every law that I have proposed to the National Assembly in some way, or to a greater or lesser extent, I have believed. I'm not saying that every provision of the law was exactly like that so that we could stand behind it 100%, but I'm telling you that for every law that I have proposed in the National Assembly, I deeply believe that it has changed Serbia better. This also applies to previous laws, including those before him, such as the Law on Political Parties, and to laws relating to local elections, to local self-government, to a number of other laws that I have defended in the National Assembly. And for the law now on the agenda, the law on the municipal police, I believe that in each of its provisions changes Serbia better. So, it's a law that introduces something new in our lives, something that we'll meet in our cities every day, something that should solve what might piss us off today at every step, whether it's that someone spilled a bullet where it doesn't belong, whether it's someone who's irresponsible walking around domestic animals, dogs, places where they don't belong, or in an unprescribed manner, so a three-year-old kid and a dog are being pushed into the sand, whether a child is going to play or a dog is going to have an emergency, whether it's an unconscious driver who parks a car in the middle of a road where the citizens pass, whether it's a bar where the music stops until five in the morning, instead of all this ends at the time how local self-government determines and that people afterwards can sleep peacefully. So there's one part of the common order, which we call communal order, and that communal order is, in some ways, in our country without adequate protection. The regular police have their jobs, these jobs are difficult, complex and dangerous, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the regular police have as much as they do and they can't exactly get to any place where it's necessary to maintain communal order. Mayors, city council presidents are trying to maintain their community order in their midst. They want their parks to be clean, they want their citizens to have no problems with the music from the cafes, they want unconscious drivers to be prevented from obstructing the regular flow of traffic and the regular functioning of people, but they don't have an instrument that they can achieve and their desires and citizens have no one to complain about when they face such a kind of problem. Something called the municipal police has long been introduced in the Western states. The various variants of the municipal police are different. In some cities, the municipal police also have some criminal powers, research, therefore, prosecution of perpetrators, and in some countries there is nothing more than a common utility service. We've been thinking a lot about what is appropriate to our terms and we've defined ourselves as a concept that's closer to the concept of municipal police, in the sense that it's a special service, with special features and with one part of police authority. We therefore predicted that in cities to establish a special administration within the city administration, it is the administration of the municipal police, that one officer can be employed by 5,000 residents in that administration, that the municipal police will have their own uniforms, that the appearance of these uniforms will be decided by the cities, that through these uniforms they may express their speciality, but that consent will be given to it by the Ministry, as is the case with street names and similar symbolic acts that can lead to certain problems within the local self-government, because some group thinks it is offended by that symbol. They'll have their own vehicles. In Belgrade, for example, there is likely to be a boat that will regulate coastal issues, in line with city possibilities. They'll be organized in a certain way. They will have certain means of coercion, it's a pendrek, it's handcuffs, when, in exceptional cases, I hope, rare cases, they need to be applied, but only in the way that it's regulated by appropriate positive regulations, and since police powers are applied, it's the regulations applicable to the police, so the law on police and the sublaw on the application of these funds. So, the municipal police should be something that's at the service of the citizens for the most banal things, but the things that make our daily life miserable, the things that can piss us off from the early morning, when we get out of the building, to things that can make our night's sleep worse. The communal officers will undergo special training because of these powers. The plan and programme of the training will be jointly established by the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. They will be subjected to appropriate tests, psychological and physical, they will be subject to regular and extraordinary tests of their abilities, and when the need arises. It is very important for this service to experience its initial steps in such a way that the idea itself is not compromised. As a result, we did not appreciate some ideas from some cities that the powers of municipal police officers would be greater and even more serious. On the other hand, we have not respected the attitudes of those who feel that they should be municipal directors, since we already have experience with the communal directors. Unfortunately, the authority of the communal directors has been hit. It happens that a communal officer comes in and tries to remove anything and experience threats, even physical attacks. The communal officer, however, will have a uniform, will have certain means of coercion and will enjoy special criminal and legal protection. A communal police officer informs his head of administration of his work, but at the same time of any use of funds used under the law governing police powers, he is obliged, and his boss, to immediately, without delay, notify the police station. The communal police are some kind of younger brother of the regular police. The communal police are here to help everyone, to help the city carry out its duties, to help citizens in small problems, what they will certainly report, to help when children from school should cross the street, to help, when a event is held, to get people in that crowd, to guide them where and how they should go. The communal officer will be our neighbor, the man who will help us, who will inform us and who will at the same time assist the police and inform her and give her the necessary information and, in cases where they act together, will be under the direct command of the regular police. I really believe this is a law that will significantly change our local self-government. This is a law that, when it comes into force, will be a sort of test for our cities. We have passed the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Territorial Organization, divided our municipalities, and now we have cities and municipalities. We told the cities then – don't try too hard to get the status of the city, the cities will have much more obligations and much more responsibilities. The first of these obligations and responsibilities is for cities to establish the service of the municipal police. As the municipal police develop, we'll see. Let's leave time to see what the results of her work will be. Many community presidents contacted me and asked why municipalities do not have municipal police. I understand their desire and need, but this is a very sensitive subject, this is a very sensitive service, because it has contact with what are rights and freedoms of citizens and it is better to introduce it first where we believe that the best and most responsible idea will be implemented, and these are our cities. If this works in cities, we'll see further development of the municipal police. It is undeniable that something similar in the future should be extended to municipalities, but in the end, we need to see the future constitutional and legal development of our country, the possible change in the Constitution towards a different territorial organisation, and, accordingly, see how the future service of the municipal police will be organised. I would really like the MPs to support as much as possible this idea. There is no need to be afraid of new things, especially new things that in parallel have produced extremely good results. I hope we have a quality argument like we did before, and I will try to answer every question that comes up in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22065	Before I ask if the words of the rapporteurs of the committees are wanted, I would like to inform you that representatives of the MPs' groups are MP Simo Vukovic, Parliament Group G 17 plus and Parliament MP Zlata Djeric, Parliament Group Nova Srbija. Do the committees want the word? The Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic? (No) Legislative committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Given that the right to a word is given to parliamentary groups, starting with at least, that is, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, I ask if the PUPS representatives want the word? (No) Do they want the word representative or president of the minority parliamentary group? (No) Does the word of the authorised representative of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, MP Zlata Djeric, want to speak? (Yes) Please just log in to the electronic system so I can give you my word. Just press the key once, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22066	As things tighten up, it seems to me that you'd be easier to turn on an electric chair from the opposition than a microphone, but it's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22067	There is no penalty for an electric chair, according to Serbian criminal law. You'd have to commit a crime on U.S. territory to get that sentence, and this is just about the electronic system. I use your witty remark to ask all MPs, only once the key press keeps you in the electronic system, everything else erases, so it goes from the beginning. My personal apology for any inconvenience that MPs have in communicating with the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22068	Thank you very much. As far as the law on the municipal police is concerned, it is another law that will pass in this House and which has that premise that it is pro-European, or European, or that it exists in some European countries or in the surrounding countries. There's only one thing we need to say in public here. In these countries, other than the municipal police, there is also an economy that can finance the budget. The city budget, the administration, the canton, or whatever it's called, also funds the municipal police. Citizens' funds are sacred there and for every investment that comes from the budget citizens ask themselves, they say. Here, you have a concrete example in Switzerland – in their local self-government you can't sell any tap that's owned by a canton unless you ask the citizens to declare it through one of the referendums. This is a very common, regular practice and citizens' responsibility to their budget-separated money. What bothers us in the law on the municipal police is that in just one case, the case of Belgrade, we see that until now political parties have mostly worked for the benefit of the state and have been in some way in the service of the state if they come to power, and now the state is slowly moving into the service of political parties. Because, you see, at the moment of the crisis we are calling for, I haven't been clear for days now about whether we came out of the crisis or are still in crisis, as Minister Dinkic assured me two weeks ago that we were out of the crisis, and yesterday some vice-presidents say that we are still in crisis. I want to believe in the first statement – that we have come out of the crisis, simply, I, as well as the citizens, obviously. Someone's not telling the truth, and we'll see, in the end, who. As far as this law is concerned, it will, above all, cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of any city. Are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia ready to pay for it at this time? Do we, in general, put some pressure on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that we have long been warning that we have overdone public spending? It's a folk term, so I think everyone in Serbia will understand that. Public spending has lost every step of the way with us. We daily, and now we were in a hurry, six hours ago, to enter another law that would allow new jobs, budget jobs. In one country, the budget should not be the main employer. It has to be a major employer's business, so the budget is rich, so that the municipal police, who are in the West, have some different powers, can function and really be needed. Only by language of numbers to tell you – they will say to 5,000 citizens one municipal police officer will be envisaged. Under this law, that municipal officer will be employed for a year, getting paid until he passes the exam. At 350 police officers, as long as the city of Belgrade needs to have at this time, if we take everything that follows the service, means, and vehicles, and their gross wages, and everything else that needs to be organised, it will be eight million 856 000 and 500 euros. Do you know how much this would mean to the economy of the Republic of Serbia at this point? We have a law that regulates the municipal area, we have incidents that it violates, and we have police that we constantly claim to be overnumbered, and there's always some restrictions being done in the police department. If there are communal incidents with which officers with those powers, that is, taking over powers that are constantly being corrected, they can't handle it, how are they going to end up with communal cops? Well, there's needed SWAT, not communal cops, but there are. So there's something that exists in the West, but it's not enough just to rewrite it and have a good will. That's a lot like that smoker who only has mouths out of a smoker. So do we, formally, look like it. It is not enough to have a good will and it is not enough that it is in European countries, that law and that it is applied. There are also a number of objective factors, i.e. numerous objective circumstances that are preventing us from passing laws that we open daily to agencies, councils and other commissions, municipal police, hundreds of new budgetary jobs. By hiring Serbia in this way, we here, in Parliament, seem to have become managers, we are no longer MPs; we are managers who pass laws and provide new jobs, new jobs, new budget spending, and that is out of control. By hiring Serbia and this law, it seems that on the one hand, we will have the wrongdoers and, on the other hand, several types of police officers who will have to keep it all in order. I really don't see how it's imagined in the law that a municipal police officer works for a year, has the right to apply a bat, has the right to tie us up, etc., has quite the authority, without having passed that exam? If I, as a citizen, am under arrest for any intervention by that officer, or by any other citizen, in any court dispute, the state will lose that dispute and pay considerable compensation. There are some things in the law that are not finished and will probably have to be passed, given that the law will pass. That's what I see. After all, all the laws that come here, except for some of the extras, which were so, guessingly, pass. This law has a good will, first of all, has a good will for those who are in power. I understand that there are different ways to preserve power, but at this point in time, when the economy is moving more and more towards its disappearance every day, we need to consider everything that it does in Serbia, that is, everything that is currently standing in Serbia. We can't talk about opening new jobs anymore when we fire two thousand people in one place to hire 160 others, and then we show this in all the media as a special success, and we don't show those several thousand who are leaving at that moment, with no chance of being employed again. They need to finance this, the citizens of Serbia should take this out of their pockets, out of their wallets. Are we really in need of communal police officers at the moment when the existing law is not applied in a certain way? We haven't had an understatement or a bad law so far. The problem was, as in every law, in application. It was allowed, say, to control the construction mafia this much, so apartments are sold two to three times, so people no longer know how to exercise their ownership rights and no one is trying to regulate it; 25,000 people in Serbia have bought the property that was sold to someone else at the moment. That is, if you multiply by the number of family members, 100,000 damaged. They're people who don't have a chance to settle their rights here, they're desperate people, who will have to do something, and none of these investors are in jail, none of them are under the influence of any law. What we really expect is for a law to come that won't go into Serbia's citizens' pocket, so that one area is arranged so that Serbian citizens don't have to pay the commission, the service, the council, the agency. We've come down to the most important managers in Serbia. That is why so much indignation with the citizens of Serbia is when Parliament is mentioned. Lawmaking must finally be in favour of the citizens of Serbia, not bringing new and new charges to them. We're talking about taxes, so it's not just taxes that hit the citizens of Serbia. And this is, for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22069	Does the president or the authorised representative of the LDP want the word? (No) Does the word want the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Group, MP Milisav Petronijevic? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22070	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS will support the proposal for a law on the municipal police that is now on the agenda. In my presentation, I will state the position of the Parliamentary Group. It's a very commendable idea of the introduction of the municipal police and should be given full support. In part two, given that this is something new, I'm going to ask the minister for even more detailed clarifications, so that citizens understand the essence and meaning of this, because I don't think this is enough for them to understand the story. It's important that citizens understand the essence of this law. Finally, in my presentation, I will ask that the time of adoption of all these acts, i.e. the establishment of the municipal police, be clarified once more. I'm going back to the beginning. I remind you, at the end of 2007, there was a package of laws in the procedure – on local self-government, territorialisation, local elections in the capital. I would also like to remind you that the package was brought to a rather majority in the Serbian Parliament. There was already a story, a request, a need to create conditions for the introduction of the municipal police. At that time, in the Law on Local Self-Government, especially in the Law on the Capital, there are bound cities, or capital, in accordance with the law, which is now this law, to educate the municipal police. This is, above all, the obligation arising from the adoption of those four laws. That's one thing. The second thing, all the major cities, the larger, the capital, and not just with us, are faced with major problems maintaining the municipal order, faced with problems of non-compliance with municipal regulations, so there are often, especially in large cities, a lot of problems in the area. Regardless of the will of local authorities to resolve these issues, they did not have enough instruments to solve them. When it is added that breaking the municipal order, disrespecting the municipal rules, there is a major problem in the city, given that police capacities are not enough to solve all these issues and, above all, when it comes to losing the confidence of citizens in institutions, causing uncertainty, fear of citizens, then the need to do something, to introduce order. I think the problems that cities face are so much to demand the need to solve. They, above all, concern the maintenance of the municipal order, ensuring effective enforcement of laws and other rules in the field of municipal activity in the city's jurisdiction, as well as other tasks, such as the exercise of supervision in public city, suburban and other local traffic, environmental protection, cultural goods, local roads, streets and other public objects of importance for the city, and not to list further. A whole series of regulations need to be monitored, controlled, and this is an attempt by the ministry, or the government, to create a legal basis in this way to make progress in the cities and the city of Belgrade, by establishing a municipal police, to address these problems, and to reduce them and to respect public order. When it comes to the structure of the law, the law says the basic role of the municipal police is to carry out municipal-police affairs in the jurisdiction of the city and the city of Belgrade. Mr. Minister, on this issue, which is indisputable, there is a need to give the public a more precise answer, as well as to those who will do so, does this apply only to the original jobs of cities and cities, or to trusted jobs in that area, from these activities? This issue is not irrelevant, although the law is constantly talking about urban competences, and it would be very important to clarify both the public and those who will implement it, because it depends on what financial structure, financial security, what status will be, etc. etc. The government has defined the municipal police as a special service, within the framework of a unique organisation of the city's administration, or the city of Belgrade. Of course, there were other possibilities, to be a communal inspection with extended powers, there was the possibility of being a municipal police officer who was in the police department, etc., but the definition of this way is not disputed. What should be further indicated is more answers to a few questions. The most important question when talking about the municipal police is – what is its jurisdiction, what is its workaround and how is it going to work? When it comes to jurisdiction, the law dealt with it in Article 9 which speaks about the affairs of the municipal police. It doesn't matter what they call it, but in order to justify the need to form such a single service, I will set an example for Belgrade, not all jobs. Mr. Minister, I ask you, when you comment, to say briefly whether article 9 covers all these areas. First – maintenance and protection of municipal facilities in general use. Under municipal facilities are considered: construction facilities with devices and installations, equipment, self-catering, devices, etc., and other facilities for the production of municipal products and utility services for users; regulated building land and good in general use. Second, the operation of municipal activities in the part of common municipal services, the maintenance of public cleanliness on public surfaces, the removal of snow and ice from public areas, transport and deposit of municipal and other waste, maintenance and protection of public green areas, public lighting facilities, lighting of public particles and fountains, park greenery, monuments, sculpture works from dirt, damage, destruction, maintenance of open markets, cemeterys, parking lots, occupations of public areas, abandoned items, objects and vehicles and setting up economic facilities – kiosks, counters, summer gardens, advertising facilities, including facilities for illegal sale on public surfaces, as well as the acquisition of street music and similar performances, etc. There is also protection and security of use of public surfaces and external security and visible marking of the construction site, therefore, taking over public surfaces, setting up skeletons and other devices, you have a situation that often cannot pass through these mazes that are being built, maintaining the outer parts of buildings, facades, so that someone doesn't fall on the head, balcony, window, setting up air conditioners, we all know what kind of chaos has occurred, etc., fences, courtyards, home row in residential buildings, safety in the area around the school yards, use of flammable funds, firecrackers, noise protection, air protection, linear and extra-task transport. A very important issue for Belgrade, which was given jurisdiction through the Capital Act, is setting up floating facilities and maintaining order on the coast, working time of catering facilities and not counting further. I think the essence of this law is jurisdiction, and the main part of the law should be what jobs the municipal police should be doing. Article 9 regulated that question, so I'm asking if that's enough? Does it cover all of this? I'm not questioning that, but I want to point out that's the most important question. It's only when you see what jobs the city is facing that you know what problems can arise in everyday life. That's why it's necessary to form the municipal police. So, all the time I'm talking about the idea, the support of the idea, and, of course, this law that's been proposed. I think you should see even more precisely, because of the public, when it comes to the detour, what I've been talking about, the jobs where it acts on its own as an organ. Perhaps it should be specified how it provides assistance at the request of the authorities not only of the city, but also of the city municipalities, when a function is to be carried out. Perhaps you should see more precisely how the third function you've given here, which is to take emergency measures and rescue functions, is to take emergency measures, which are taken by emergency measures, in which they are involved in the rescue operations that follow. The idea is good, but in order to be and enforceable, it has to be clear and clear to both citizens and those who are going to implement it. To keep your attention, I just want to ask for a more detailed explanation on one occasion, which is when it comes to co-operation. It is a very important issue of co-operation, and with the inspection service, on the one hand, and with the police, on the other hand, and in all of this I point out as the most important, I do not assume that it is exactly that, that it must be avoided parallelism. There must be no parallelism in the work. I think that should also be clarified. It is our view, our support for this law, our justification for doing so, upon request that, when such a law is passed, every detail must be explained, to be clear to every citizen, at the stage of adoption, in order to protect the property of the people, the security of the citizens, in order for the citizens to feel the way it suits a great city. As far as the principle goes, we'll back it up. I want to share a dilemma, Mr. Minister, with my government. Are these deadlines given in transitional and final provisions realistic? Please, let's separate the question of ideas, the needs of all this. I'm not talking about details, but is it good that the police body is organised by the end of the year, and that a strategic plan should be adopted in two years, if the strategic plan should be the basis for the annual action plan of the municipal police? Is it realistic that in these conditions, I repeat again, not questioning any moment of need and an idea that I think is great, applied from New Year's Eve? I'll take the example of Belgrade again. If we stick to the criteria, even the smallest criteria, I believe there should be between 300 and 400 municipal police officers. That's a big quota. That's how much budget he has to secure for next year. If we have a budget restriction and according to local self-government, if we have one campaign that you, Mr. Minister, are running, to reduce the number of employees in local self-government, is it realistic that this works since New Year's Eve, given that it will be quite an imposition? I don't think so. I urge you to reconsider. Let all these questions be settled by the end of the year, let all necessary legal acts be passed, all necessary rules, acts on establishment and organisation, but let us give more time and space, with the obligation of local authorities to provide the people within the framework of the internal redistribution, and even if there is a surplus in the police, in order to replace this law, which is well-intentioned, which carries good messages, be realistic and enforceable. Because if we just praise him, bring him in, which is undeniable, and he can't be implemented, I think he'll get suspicious of the intention of passing the law. We support the law, we support the need for its adoption, regardless of any solutions, whether they can be left or right. There's time to process these petty details through the debate. Full support, for that matter. We also support the local self-government taking responsibility for this state of municipal order in its midst. I ask my government once again to see if it's too much, in these conditions of budgetary resources and restrictions, that it starts to apply since New Year's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22071	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22072	I would like to thank my colleague, Misha Petronivic, for this presentation. He's been asking us some questions that we've been asking ourselves for the last eight months. It wasn't easy getting to this text. It's an empty paper. We're out of white paper. All the other laws we have, through history, Serbia is an old state, we have a lot of regulations, a lot of laws. This is where we started with the white paper. We first identified ourselves as the idea, what we want, of looking at parallel experiences. We immediately gave up the idea that is in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, where it is the municipal directors. We went to a more serious idea. When something's new, you have dilemmas. I have dilemmas today, when I defend the law, I can't say I don't have them. First, I want to thank you for saying in part something that was very important after the presentation of my colleague, Zlata. So, this idea of the municipal police has been put together by almost all of us here in the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, where we said that the city is doing the jobs it performs and the municipalities, in addition, that the city will educate the service of the municipal police. Even then, we made a commitment that within a year it would be this law. Unfortunately, by our good practice, elections happen often and this law comes after a year and a half, and not after a year. This is a good funding issue. I knew it could come up as a topic. You know, like me, it's still funding local self-government units from city financing. They get as much money as they get under the Local Self-Government Fund Act. How they're going to organize that money, whether it's going to organize it one way or another, it's up to them again. The undisputed employment is 10, 15, 20, 30 people, where, Belgrade is an extreme case; let's say 12 people have in Jagodina as the smallest number. It's a certain financial asset. Let the city of Jagodina see if they'll hire 12, or they'll hire six people. We didn't put it under the sea, we said it would bring in an act of organization, and when it really organized the service, about it afterwards. So, your remark, which is colleague Djeric, has pointed out, is quite correct, as far as finance is concerned, but this framework that the municipality has, it has under the Law on the financing of local self-government. It has its own framework – 100 dinars. The layout of that box will see for itself, let it stretch out how much of a gobber it is. Many have now burned themselves, so 60% of the budget is paid, but we have great municipalities where the salary goes 7%, 8%, 9%. So that's the subject, but again I'm saying, we haven't put a limit on it, the municipalities themselves will see what their options are, and that's how they'll organize themselves. We just put the word - jurisdiction, as you've noticed. I'll tell you why. It is not disputed when it comes to the original competences, in general, the communal order is the original competences, i.e. the conduct of municipal affairs, and, on the other hand, some part of the circle may also come from trusted jobs, sometimes. If the municipal police are a means, with entrusted jobs comes money, that we understand each other, so, let's say, there's no need for parenting books, like in a trusted job, to assist the municipal police, but in carrying out trusted jobs, the city will, by nature, see if the work of the municipal police is necessary. We are within these means, so when some of the laws are entrusted to businesses, now sectoral laws have, let's see how much money is transferred with these transactions. But that's why we put the word "competence." So we didn't specify. Competence, workaround, so, Article 9, you've noticed very well on the case of Belgrade. In some other cities, it's a little different, a lot different, to be exact. I'll take advantage of what you said, because of the public -- yet you're right, you should, however, explain a little bit, so I can read a part of what the municipal police are going to do. ''Keeping communal order and other law order of order of importance for communal activity; keeping control of the application of laws and other regulations and general acts in the field of municipal and other activities from the jurisdiction of the city; achieving supervision in public city, suburban and other local traffic, in accordance with the law and regulations of the city; protecting the environment, cultural goods, local roads, streets and other public objects of importance for the city; supporting the implementation of regulations that ensure the smooth conduct of life in the city, preserving city goods and carrying out other tasks from the city's jurisdiction. ''Now the topic Miša Petronijevic mentioned - the municipal order. ''The maintenance of communal order is considered to maintain order in areas, i.e.: water supply; waste and atmospheric waters; public cleanliness; transport and disposal of municipal and other waste; local roads and streets; traffic markings and signalling; parking; transport of passengers in urban and suburban traffic; car taxi transport; setting up temporary business facilities; fire protection; protection against noise in the environment; control of the working time of surveillance entities; maintenance of municipal facilities, markets, cemeterys, parks, green and other public areas, public lighting, housing and other facilities. '"The measure of precision is so. Is it enough? I hope that, in some of its total mass, that's it. Through practice, we'll see how it'll be precise, but you said the right thing here, and that's the question of the consistency of work, both with other services of the city and with the police. That's where you say what's important, and that's Article 12. It's much more important to coordinate with the police. As for coordinating work with other services of the city, there is the chief, he will coordinate the work, whether this action will go – the municipal inspector, along with the officer, the building inspector, will take care of the city and I think there will be no problem. This strategic plan, the annual plan, is something that coincides with the relevant documents in the regular police and Article 12, we have stated that the strategic plan and the annual plan for the work of the municipal police are coordinated before the adoption of regulations and appropriate police plans, as well as with views on priorities for the safety of people and property in the city. Professional assistance in preparing this is provided by police, with the support of the interior ministry. The communal police must not be outside the entire system. We purposely placed the municipal police in one of these subordinate positions compared to the regular police. It's been eight months. It is indeed necessary to look at all aspects of the adoption of such a law, especially given that it has provisions that can be touched in the rights and freedoms of citizens. I believe it'll go well. As far as the deadlines are concerned, we've already spoken. We got the amendments, we'll think about it, we'll see, you're absolutely right, it would be wrong to devalue a good idea because of the deadlines. We'll see again in the amendment debate, if we're sure the deadlines are okay, that's what we'll say, if we're not sure, we'll accept what you suggested in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22073	Does the president or the authorised representative of the Group of MPs want to go ahead with Serbia? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: In the end he will speak. I thank you. Does the word want a representative of the DSS Parliamentary Group, MP Jovan Palalic? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22074	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is undoubtedly one of the important laws, which is also required under the Law on Local Self-Government, adopted in the National Assembly in December 2007. Before I look back, specifically, at this law, I would like, since there is a Minister of State Administration and local self-government present here, to point to the atmosphere in which the law on municipal police is passed, which is currently such that it cannot be said that the state of local self-government is good. A series of indicators suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia leads local self-government to a policy that cannot be said to lead to their strengthening, but certainly to weaken their capacities and what is most important when it comes to local autonomy, which is the possibility that, directly in contact with citizens, they will realise their most important responsibilities, to be the real service of citizens, as defined by the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government. We have repeatedly talked in the National Assembly about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the economic crisis, has made a very wrong decision, whose consequences will now, even in this law that we are going to talk about, be clearly seen – a decision on the reduction of transfer funds, where the consequences are already beginning to feel in a large number of municipalities. And when a law on regional development is passed, where additional pressures are created on local self-government, so now the law on municipal police, too, with a number of financial obligations by local self-government, plus these basic powers that local self-government have, will be a terrible burden and certainly will not contribute to the advance of local self-government. An important constitutional obligation, repeatedly repeated, the DSS wants to repeat here, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not implemented it, it is the adoption of a law concerning public property, so, among other things, its own local self-government. It is not possible to talk about essential decentralisation, and we have all reached a consensus in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that local self-governments have their property, unless a law on the property of local self-government is passed, where those with full capacity could bring their development and investment plans. In this regard, I urge the Minister of State Administration and local self-government to make an effort as a resolution minister and speed up the work. Local self-government is faced with a series of problems concerning the realisation of the competences that have been passed on to them, which are very important for their functioning, such as the collection of income from local self-government. It would be interesting to hear from the minister himself – to the extent that local self-government has built their administrative and tax capacities to collect incomes belonging to them. A number of problems are facing local self-government when it comes to this. Of course, there are also political problems in a large number of local self-governments, which are not only due to political conflicts, but there are things only the Ministry of Local Self-Government should pay attention to, which is the adoption of acts concerning democracy and relations between authorities and opposition in certain local self-governments. We have a series of examples in certain local self-governments, where, through changes or through the adoption of Rules of Procedure, these rights are narrowed down to individual committees. It would be interesting to hear whether the minister has a review of various rules of procedure according to local governments and their arrangements when it comes to the right of the opposition to act in certain local self-governments? I'd like to draw attention to the minister that there is a problem in Prepolje today. There was a major problem in the previous days, precisely because of the debate and the fact that the rules of procedure are being changed, that they are narrowing down the rights of the council. Tomorrow, you have a local self-government back there where the atmosphere is on the verge of conflict. Please pay attention to the situation in the municipality of Prepolje and make an effort to ensure that the rights of the committee, when it comes to the work of local self-government and when it comes to the work of the opposition, are respected and that all the complaints you receive from that local self-government are respected. It is undeniable that there has been some stabilisation compared to the previous law. These are the good consequences of the Law on Local Self-Government, but there were many problems when it comes to judicial practice. Of course, there is no direct responsibility of the ministry itself, but I think it would be good for both the government and the Ministry to make an effort to level this practice, because a series of these local self-governments, where we have, now, re-elections, are precisely the result of poor court practice. We have already said that the Regional Development Act imposes new obligations on local self-government, through district associations, jurisdiction with the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land, no law on the ownership of local self-government, reduction of transfer funds. Minister, I think the situation in local self-government, where, of course, it is not just your jurisdiction, it is not good and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in a series of its sectors, leads a very bad policy. There's been a lot of contradictory statements, and I have to say, government itself. You had one concept when it came to rationalising jobs in local self-government, but apparently the government on this issue was divided and you had to give up that concept, because the resolute economy and regional development minister, as far as we had the opportunity to see from the media, Mladjan Dinkic, pressured the concept of rationalising jobs not to be implemented. Now the big question is how will this problem be possible in the first place and what new commitments, believe me, local self-governments are afraid of what's going to happen on this issue, will be faced. I wanted to say something in this opening part, and as chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government in the National Assembly, about the atmosphere in which this law is passed, because a lot of questions and complaints and all these misunderstandings are coming from a number of cities and municipalities, so certainly, in this atmosphere this law on municipal police, which I want to say at first, Minister, is not good. I could even say that in many segments it is bad and that it will not produce the fact that you were talking about in the opening part, i.e. I do not think it will be applicable in one part of my provisions, which I will discuss in the discussion, as well as the other MPs of our parliamentary group, and in detail in the context of the debate on amendments. The very fact that in 2007, by adopting the Law on Local Self-Government, we made a decision to introduce the municipal police, is the result of an analysis and the need that we heard back then in the National Assembly of Cities, that maintaining the municipal order, resolving municipal problems when it comes to municipal order, requires the establishment of a municipal police force. But at a time when the law was passed, until today, it was a year and a half, an effort should be made to define standards on the affairs and responsibilities of the municipal police, on relations with other authorities, on professional training of municipal police officers, financial resources and deadlines. Obviously, there wasn't enough time. We believe that it was important that a more quality public debate, which could point to these problems, and as far as I heard yesterday and on the Committee on Local Self-Government, was held for a year and a half, there were many ideas from the very cities concerned by these particular remarks that the DSS will make. The main objection regarding the law on the municipal police is the confusion of the very establishment of the municipal police between two other authorities with important competencies, which are police and municipal inspection. I think, Minister, that you have failed to define the municipal police in the middle of those two organs and the jurisdiction of the police and the communal inspection. She doesn't have her clear outlines, you can see from Article 9, relating to the affairs of the municipal police. You know, we can hardly, when it comes to determining the affairs of the municipal police, to very clearly determine and put in charge of the municipal police that her job is to control the application of the law, or that it's to support the enforcement of regulations. That can hardly be the jurisdiction of the municipal police, before it can be the jurisdiction of the municipal inspection. Here, during the discussion, you said that the problem between the municipal police and the inspection would be solved by hierarchy, by the authority of the authorities in the local self-government itself. It may be a kind of order, as you said here, chief of administration, but it won't answer the question, which is confusing here – is that the jurisdiction of the municipal police themselves? What is not, announcing the importance of this law, most happily solved, is the very position of the municipal police in the city administration system. We think she should be special. No, it's not special management, it's part of the administration. If we're already giving power to the municipal police, if we're empowering them to exercise physical coercion, then, if there's a chief of staff who's going to be above the head of the municipal police, in this hierarchical sense, we don't think it's good. We believe that, even when it comes to the deployment of commissioners, the municipal police need an important role to play, of course, the city council, and not some chief of staff in the city administration system. It's simply that there is a disproportionateity between the capacity of the authority given here, although they are confusing, well, even so far to apply the physical force, and the very positions of the municipal police in the city administration system, which is very weak. When it comes to the relationship between the municipal police and the police themselves, it is seen in Article 4, where it is said – the engagement of the municipal police, the scope and the way of providing assistance is decided by the chief of the municipal police, and said further – if the physical resistance to the enforcement is not possible, or fails, despite the involvement of the municipal police, the city's competent authority will then seek the help of the police, in accordance with the Law on Police. It's a kind of degradation of the municipal police. Why wouldn't direct communication be established between the municipal police and the police in this case? Besides, it's too long for 48 hours to handle the municipal police. We have proposed by amendment that it be a 24-hour deadline, because some decisions must be made really urgently to prevent possible damage from their non-execution. As far as business is concerned, I think your weakest, most confusing and vagueest is going to create the biggest problems in application, Article 9, relating to the affairs of the municipal police. It would be interesting to hear how the municipal police will control the enforcement of the rules. As far as the strategic plan is concerned, I must say that we had a dilemma about whether a strategic plan is necessary at all or, if a strategic plan is already being adopted, let us strengthen its strength. We have proposed by amendment, if there is already a strategic plan, that it be brought by the City Assembly, that it give consent to the City Assembly, because it strengthens the overall role of municipal police within the city administration. Then it's about the differences in concept. Of course, we can argue about it, but the place of the municipal police, the programs and plans it brings, which the authorities need to define. As for the authority of the municipal police, it is something that is very important and the majority of citizens are interested in being the authority of the municipal police, because it, as it will be seen, leads to the possibility that the municipal police are applying funds to force, using official batons and binding tools. We have a comment here and a big dilemma and we have a change of reaction. We think the municipal police can't examine the face and objects, especially if they can't temporarily confiscate the cases. It is our opinion and, when it comes to this authority, we think it is more appropriate to introduce it, and we have defined it by amendment, the notion of the detention of a person who committed a certain offence until the police arrive, who would continue to act on these issues, when it comes to the temporary confiscation of the case and the examination of the person and the case. You know, it's a great authority when it comes to the temporary confiscation of the case, especially the question of how the municipal police will react if the person refuses to give the communal police the opportunity to conduct an examination of the case. Physical coercion cannot be carried out, as it is clearly stated in which cases it can be physically forced to perform, in cases of extreme urgency. We can't talk here about the fact that in that case this jurisdiction of the municipal police would be effective and implemented at all. As for the control of the municipal police, the team was particularly involved, especially when it comes to the education of the commission. Mr. Minister, it is absolutely a good solution, because of the possibility of all these powers, especially when it comes to the use of physical coercion, to control the operation of the municipal police, especially the resolution of complaints, but the way in which it is defined in Article 29 is not the happiest solution. Article 29 speaks of the possibility of forming a commission in cases following a party's complaint, submitted to the chief of the municipal police. If the Chief finds out, or if there is a suspicion that the offence committed is a criminal offence, isn't it logical that then the Chief of Police is going to file a criminal report, not that the whole thing is being transferred to an additional analysis of some commission that would be formed in local self-government? There is a legal obligation, in case there are reasonable suspicions that a crime has been committed, that criminal charges are filed, and no, we have an additional process. If the head of the municipal police, as is said here, finds that there is a suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed by applying authority, a commission will be formed to examine it further. We believe that this commission only makes sense in cases where the complainant is not satisfied with the way the chief of the municipal police analysed and processed the complaint, some kind of two-stage. In that sense, the commission would play a role. But if there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed and they also appear with the Commissioner of the Communist Police and the Commission, then they have an absolute obligation to file criminal charges, or criminal charges. The issue of mandates is also very controversial. We had in the Traffic Safety Act an entire debate on the justification not to impose mandates as the possibility of corruption, and now that possibility is left to the municipal police. I think you should think about it very carefully. Due to the importance of competence, the role it will play, the possibilities of coercion, the taking of emergency measures by the municipal police, we think that, when it comes to the commission and the whole process of preparing the municipal police to carry out these tasks, the capacity of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is insufficient. This job has to be done by the MUP. Because of everything we know and what resources and educational opportunities on this issue, the MUP has, given the designs of jobs that concern the public police themselves, which are similar, they can do the job better. I don't think there should be certainty here, but that this job would be better done by the MUP. Finally, I would say something that is stated in the very reasoning of the law, when it comes to the means necessary for its implementation. It is said here that when it comes to education, start of work, the means to obtain equipment for work, as well as training and training, local self-government, i.e. cities and the city of Belgrade. Then it is said this way -- the amount of these funds will depend primarily on the definition of cities and cities of Belgrade in terms of the number of people and municipal police. I'm afraid, Minister, that in a situation where local self-government is involved in financial resources, the number of municipal police officers, unfortunately, will not depend on the needs of cities, but will depend on financial resources. Due to insufficient financial resources, due to all the problems faced by local self-government, the number of municipal police officers will certainly be much smaller in Serbia's cities than is necessary. In order to allow at least the necessary funds for the operation of the municipal police, Mr. Minister, to provide for at least approximately the necessary resources for the operation of the municipal police, give up the reduction of the transfer funds in local self-government. The DSS won't support the municipal police law. It would be good for some new amendments to be installed through this discussion and for those amendments to be adopted on the board of directors to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22075	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22076	I think there's a different concept here, though, and the fact that you're the opposition, and we're the government at this point, so I'm going to respond to a part of your remarks, or practically everything. I don't know if you've submitted an amendment to Article 9, I'll take a look at it, about that section. I just read it. I don't know what to say more and more precisely, in a situation where we have both the city of Belgrade and the city of Jagodina, and the city of Novi Sad, and Nis, and different cities that do this communal work in a different way. I think we've covered everything regarding the communal order and communal activity. If you think we missed something, you put it in the amendment, we'll take it. I don't know what's wrong with that Article 9, to be honest, I don't get it. Unlike you, I think the law will be so well implemented and so effective in practice that many skeptics, including many who support the law, will be surprised by the good results in practice. I was the president of the municipality, I was a councilman of the City Assembly, as well as Mr. Petronijevic, who discussed here, I know a lot about city affairs, I have experience in that. Believe me, those of us who were in this practice have a little better insight than you who were in some other practice, it's not controversial. Believe that we who have done these jobs well know what it looks like in practice. The Commission referred to in Article 32. Our proposal was for the police, the police minister, to form a commission. We have a written opinion from the Ministry of Police, which we believe we are fully capable of forming a commission. When we say - to form a commission, it means to form a committee of experts from different areas, with the previous acquisition of the opinion of the Ministry of Police. As you can see, it's still a joint business. Simply, the police department thought we should be the bearers of the job. Far from being any certainty or, worse still, taking a job. So my initial position was that this should be done by the Ministry of Police, however, they think that we are quite capable of doing it ourselves. The Commission for State Exams, which you all know, I form as a minister, and she has experts, has judges of the Constitutional Court and prosecutors. I mean, everyone is aware that this is a commission formed by the work of two ministers, the police minister and the Minister of State Administration, and that there will be members who are experts in different areas. I'm simply sorry that, in the application of these sublegal acts at all, you didn't pay attention that no act was brought on its own. Every act seeks the opinion of the police minister. You've seen it, but it's important that the public hears it. You have objected to the control of the resolution of complaints, but in the last position, regardless of the outcome of the resolution of the complaint, the complainant has all the legal and other means available to protect his rights and freedoms, and also, as you know well, because you are also my colleague by profession, anyone who knows and who wants to file a criminal complaint. This is one of the forms of control that would be more focused on this city's parliament having some part in the control of such a service. You might think it's not good, I think it is. Experienced as one additional control that it is so, in this way organized. You've certainly noticed that, in addition to that, every use of funds is being notified to the Ministry of Police. We've been trying to, when it comes to the means of coercion and, in general, the work of cops, they're multiplely restricted, multiplely controlled, and I think we all agree that that's the way it's supposed to be. The term of office. It is a problem of mandated penalties, I agree entirely with that principle, that they may be the subject of corruption. We have also put the mandates and, in general, the powers laid down in Article 1 can only be applied when it is authorised by law, by other regulation or by the general act of the city – it can impose a mandate, file a report, etc., it is now a matter of special regulation. Someone in a town is going to say something about it, prescribe it by city regulations, you know that the city's assembly is committing a violation, so it's going to be a mandate. Let them go, let them save themselves, cities are it. Come on, we trust them, to see if they're capable or not capable, they have their own normative activity. When I was a member of the City Assembly, a council member of the City Assembly, and Mr Aligrudić was some sort of member of the City Assembly's Executive Board at the time, the thing that bothered me was our weak normative activity. I think Mr. Aligrudić is one of those, i.e. We had the same vision – that the normative activity of cities had to be greater, stronger, that they would solve normably some of the things in their jurisdiction. I don't think this is controversial. Really, I don't want to appreciate now whether cities should prescribe mandates or not; let the cities decide. These mandates aren't such a bad thing, sometimes they're very effective. Well, that's what the cities will decide. As for the situation in local self-government, transfer, you asked me – what is the situation? It's not part of this law right now, but I can tell you a few things. The reduction of transfers in some municipalities was not a problem, in municipalities where transfers are up to 20% of the total budget. Where transfers are over 20% of the total budget, there has been a reduction in the transfer by 40%, so there are certain problems in functioning. We, as a government and as a Parliament, have problems in functioning, due to the lack of money. The finance ministry has assessed, made such a decision. I'm not a minister who tends to interfere in the work of other ministries. I have to believe and believe that the Ministry of Finance did it the best possible way. I'm sorry, it's hard for local self-government, but it's hard for everyone, we're in this kind of crisis. As for the overall state of affairs in local self-government, Mr. Palalic, I think you know that by the law that we've brought together, we've stabilized, there's no dilemma that we've made a big step. The next question is always the quality of people, actors. You know my idea of changing that by changing electoral legislation. This will then be discussed, probably in Parliament sooner or later. As for the overall state, it's stabilized, you've noticed. I want to point out - we really have no problem anywhere, except in 5% of the cases in which the court has made some decisions that, in my opinion, are not in the spirit of the Law on Local Self-Government. The case law is unequal, but not to the extent that it seems, because these cases get attention, so someone doesn't think – uh, there's a lot of it. There's not much. We have in one row about 620 and a couple of other disputes, maybe, a couple dozen. If we have about 750 controversial situations, I don't believe it's 5, 6, 7% of the total number of situations; if you look at 50, 60 or 40 situations that are different, when they get public publicity, it seems that practice is uneven. We've been reviewing the practice of courts in some things. Since there were not many requirements for the protection of legality, we were unable to reach the Supreme Court meeting to establish some practice of resolution, although I suggested that in some cases requests for protection of legality be submitted, dissatisfied parties were advised. I think that would be good. But, well, we probably do, and that's why we need judicial reform, among other things, and because it's amazing for me that in this simple written Law on Local Self-Government, someone is unable to interpret the provision to be a committee member whose term of office has ceased, because he became president of the municipality, a second committee member comes from that list. I can't believe some of the judges didn't interpret it properly. It is rare and I hope that the future reform of the judiciary and re-election will affect the quality of the judicial decisions and in this matter which is very important to us, you as chairman of the Committee, and to me as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22077	National MP Jovan Palalic. Right to the replica? You had an exhibit the minister reacted to. If you think something's misread, you have a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22078	Mr. Minister, just a few clarifications about those things where we're in the middle. As for the Commission itself, we do not dispute the need for the existence of a commission and the control of complaints. We just pointed out the nature of the commission, and it is formed in cases where, from complaints, data collected in the procedure of the commissioner, or eyewitnesses, there is a suspicion that the municipal police officer violated authority and committed a criminal act. We don't think there's any need to form a municipal police force for that reason. It is enough for the chief of the municipal police to file criminal charges, and let this commission be formed if the applicant is not satisfied. As for Article 9, which you have mentioned, the exercise of control over the application of the law and the support of enforcement – what is the role of the municipal police? We can't see from the nature of the municipal police that she needs to exercise control over the application of regulations, laws and support the enforcement of regulations. This is so general, so vague. We asked to delete this. The terms of office - you said to leave this freedom of local self-government. We are here, Mr. Minister, saying that the terms of office have been proven to be a legacy of corruption. If we are all declared to fight corruption, then we must not in any part of Serbia create assumptions about corruption, nor in any city. Let's start cutting it down. You don't have the right to a mandate in any city. Believe that certain cities will be eager to write down the possibility of a mandate. You said transfer funds, it's true, it didn't bring your ministry, Mr. Minister. You are the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and I urge you to protect the interests of local self-government and tell the finance minister that instead of reducing the transfer funds to local self-government, you will put aside the unilateral application of the SAA and you will see that there will be resources for many things, and not only that the way to raise funds is to be taken by local self-government. We think it's very important and that you have both the capacity and the authority within the government to make a decision like this, in the interest of local self-government, make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22079	Does the authorised representative G 17 plus, MP Simo Vukovic, want a word? (Yes) National MP Milos Aligrudic has been reported. You have no right to a replica. National MP Jovan Palalic is an authorised representative. He's got the right to a replica. You're not mentioned personally, and you have no right to a replica. National MP Simo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22080	Dear Ministers, dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, G17 plus, that is, our parliamentary group will support this proposal for a law on the municipal police. At the same time, we regret that this law has not been passed before, in accordance with the legal rules that set it, above all, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the City of Belgrade. Political circumstances, however, did not contribute to creating an atmosphere for its adoption. The G17 plus also made a major effort in the previous period, both during public debate and by proposing certain solutions, in the adoption of this law. We believe that the adoption of the law on the municipal police is a terrible need for the city of Belgrade, and, as an MP from Belgrade, I believe that certain things can be revised, perhaps to a lesser extent, and to other cities in the Republic of Serbia. It is difficult to bypass the previous period, which has contributed to the creation of a municipal riot in urban areas, I am speaking again from the perspective of someone who lives and works in Belgrade. We had a two-decade period that was marked by the economic crisis, and the war environment, by the large migration of people from the war-to-war areas, so that, in conditions created under the communal system, or control of its functioning, the state administration itself and local self-government were not able to address the phenomena that contributed to the devasting of the municipal system. If you'll excuse me, I will explain the great need for law-making only lists a few examples in Belgrade. Back in the years, it is easy to say that several thousand people living in the township of Old Town suffer torture, especially in Strahinjica Bana street, from numerous catering facilities, which, above all, do not respect prescribed working hours, then, in these areas, people who create noise contaminating the environment. It is obvious that the township of Old Town and its organs, as well as the city of Belgrade, are powerless to meet and provide normal and peaceful life for residents of the township of Stari Grad, and this applies to some parts of the town municipalities of Vracar and the Sava Venac. On the other hand, let's look at the situation regarding the water facilities. It is a topic that has existed a few years ago, there are discussions about it, but the number of water facilities, temporary water facilities in the banks of Sava and Danube is only growing, regardless of what the Internal Navigation Act is doing, and the City Assembly has decided to set up a place for such water facilities. It's just that nothing happened except that there's been an increase in the number of such objects, the largest number of which doesn't have any permission. It is not only a threat to the environment, but it can often endanger people's physical integrity, as it prevents access, examples, police and firepower, if they would like to approach the waterfront on the coast, etc. What I would like to say as a fresh example of the violation of the municipal order, for which the city and municipal administration currently have no answer, is a recent event, in light of the previous elections on Vozdovac, where, as part of the dirty political campaign and orchestrated media link G17 plus, certain groups of people falsified posters with the character of Mladjan Dinkic, wanting to do some political damage to G17 plus and the "For the European Leader" coalition, glued glass entrances into housing buildings. The tenants, of course, were rightly bitter, and the G17 plus, even though he was used to such things, acted like all citizens and associations, we filed reports to the competent police station. But I don't believe the police will be dealing with, perhaps, a small problem for her. Maybe it's a topic, how to protect, first of all, the citizens; it's not about the G17 plus party here, it's about the citizens who are inhabiting these residential buildings. Who has the right to disrupt their space without being sanctioned? What has to be said is that, on the basis of the obligations arising from this bill, the city must define, to establish, determine the organisation of the municipal police, i.e. It will be an integral part of the city administration. I think that's a good thing. We don't need the municipal police to get some status over the organization unit within the city's administration. I think it will work well within this principle of subordination and the very efficiency and direct jurisdiction of the city's chief of staff over the municipal police. What has been shown so far is that in previous examples, we may have some normative acts, but we have a major problem in law enforcement and other sublegal acts. And so far we have had a certain regulation, but it's obvious that the capacity of cities and municipalities in terms of municipal order, that, above all, was not enough. On the other hand, there is insufficient police capacity, which is burdened with other things, and it had to go to one such legal solution, which would allow normal developments and functioning of the communal order. So far, several models have been recorded to function surveillance in the municipal directorship. We have either the municipal police, which is different from the country to the country, on the other hand, we have the model that we've had so far and which, in some ways, has framed the 2005 Police Act, which is that the local community is working with the police. However, it is obvious that the co-operation and the level of functioning and control have not yielded adequate results. I want the representatives of the ministry to understand what the previous speakers have said as a constructive criticism, which we will probably also valorize through the work in particular, according to amendments, to ignore certain things within the framework of the law, which is that, as Mr Petronijevic said, there is no parallelism, because here it is an apparent danger, between the municipal inspection and the municipal police. In the Republic of Croatia, for example, the organization is such that we have municipal police officers and so on. their assistants. As part of that, I want to say that the standard, mentioned, is also related to the subject. In order not to create parallelism and increase the number of employees, it is also necessary to insist by sublegal acts that the largest number of people from the existing municipal inspection actually go to the municipal police, of course, after proper training and exams. It seems to me that the municipal inspection, respecting other legal acts, should be part of an organisational unit within the administration where the municipal police are. These capacities should also be used on the basis of environmental experiences, where local community advice is also used, or people working in local communities. They should also be used as co-workers of the municipal police, above all, in terms of field reporting. What's set up as a norm, which I mentioned, is that every 5,000 residents on the last list come from one municipal police officer; the bill, which is here and mentioned by the predecessors, that Belgrade will have around 340 to 350 municipal police officers. We'll see, I see the minister is optimistic that it will work. We'll back it up, see what results it gets. What I would particularly technically draw attention to are those in Articles 4 and 6 relating to time limits and requested assistance and citizens' notification. Those deadlines must be 24 hours. Sometimes there is an urgent need for the operation of the municipal police. I don't think cutting that deadline is going to jeopardize the whole concept of the law. The next thing I'd like to point out, it's that I'm not completely clear, and I'm asking the Ministry's representative to explain to me, in what part of the jobs described, that is, the area of the municipal police would be either the fight against illegal construction, or what would we call urbanism and construction jobs, because that is, apparently, the biggest problem, above all, in Belgrade, and in other cities in the Republic of Serbia? We're facing something today that's a legalization process, where we have tens of thousands of illegally built objects, and if it doesn't act preventively through the municipal police, I think this negative trend will continue. It is obvious that the biggest discussion and attention trigger powers given to the municipal police. Powers are in broad diapazon, but the power to apply the physical force is certainly the most significant. Thus, this law, or definition of municipal police officers, went deep into something that is a domain of police work. What does that mean, specifically, and what dilemmas does it create with me when I think about this law? It's, first of all, why, by watching the Police Act, it's an abandoned measure, so-called. The physical force that says in the Police Act? So it went straight from warning to warning, etc. at the application of the bat. What also affects delicacy, which caused controversy during the public debate on the law on municipal police, is whether, by giving incomplete powers to a communal police officer, we can put him in a position to be life-threatening. So to use the bat, or apply the physical force, and to be physically threatened by the person who resists it because he owns firearms. I don't want this to be understood as an attitude to have firearms, but I am asking the Ministry for an explanation, or a minister -- what kind of protection are we providing on the spot to a communal officer who applies the force of the bat? It is unclear and there is a contradiction between Article 10 and Article 24, which also refers to the application of the physical force, where it is defined that it can do so only in situations where it is threatened – Article 24 is highlighted – if it is an illegal attack. I'll read Article 88. The law on police where the attack was defined – the attack is considered to be any action taken to hurt or deprive life, to violently enter an object or space around the object in which the entry is banned, or to interfere or prevent an authorised official from performing an official action. This situation will now be more common during the operation of municipal police officers and it must be kept in mind that, as I said, they are both life-threatening and that the link with the police, which has further means of applying force, is as close as possible. I'm going to list just a few more objections in this principle debate that I think may essentially affect the law itself. It is, as already noted, a complaint resolution committee that would eventually have citizens working on the work of the municipal police. I absolutely advocate that there is a complaint resolution committee, which suggests that they are not a police officer and chief of the municipal police, because they are an integral part of the commission, and the parties are interested in the dispute. I believe that the formation of this commission reflects the aspirations for civil control of the work of the municipal police. As for professional training, it seems to me that the law did not fully include the MUP, which only has the capacity to directly train people, which is not the case with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The MUP is only mentioned in parts where it will give an opinion on the plan and programme, decisions, as well as on the Commission's work plan. There are a few more segments I'd like to point out, which is part of a 40th section that refers to the termination of a working relationship, where it's probably been omitted by mistake that the ID should be returned immediately, because it would be an open possibility for its possible abuse. I see that most of the predecessors have also made remarks about the implementation of the law in terms of financial resources. We see that the Republic budget will not be burdened, but that these obligations have also been translated into local self-government. I agree that under these conditions, in which transfers to local self-government are reduced, it will be a huge burden and it seems to me that it may be a serious problem in implementing this law. I also ask the Minister for an explanation of this dynamic, which is not completely clear, which implies that the law enters into force eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger" and is applied at the end of six months after the date of entry into force, i.e. acts on education and internal arrangements to be adopted by the competent ministry. The examination committee will be educated within six months of the entry into force, and eventually causes a confused member who regulates that they are employed by the municipal police to pass the exam within a year of the date of adoption of the professional training programme, whose time limit, or time limit for its adoption, does not exist. That's how I end this principle debate. I may have made some points, but once again I want to point out that the law on the municipal police is a great need for cities, above all, the city of Belgrade, that it will bring, I am convinced, all the necessary results and restore citizens' trust in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government. The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support this law and actively participate in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22081	The speech is attended by MP Milan Avramovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my presentation, I must make a statement to the Minister to respond. He said that in all the laws he proposed to the Assembly in the previous period and which were adopted and voted in this parliament he had great confidence. I must challenge this confidence, given that the 5% mentioned by the minister is just about 5% of the SRS mandate and that these mandates have not been returned today, only in Belgrade, and in all of Serbia, the judiciary has done as it has done. But this is about protecting the rights of political parties, not citizens, because when it comes to protecting citizens' rights by the DS, citizens are usually challenged for their rights. These rights are best seen through the work of the Republic Parliament, in which 60 incompatible laws can be passed in less than five, six, seven days, or in which you can convince the Minister in less than two minutes that your amendment is of quality. But let's put the law first, that jurisdiction and police and local self-government are mixed in one new educational group, or special department, or secretariat, if it's the city, that this will go back to the cost of citizens, who will, along with a payment for municipal needs, already receive regular, also have an item – the cost of municipal police. The public debate should have been sharper and better and only left comments from expert teams, if they can be called, who participated, or working groups, in the drafting of this law, and information on the public debate was only available through the press, in which they could be seen and heard the statements of individuals who were not satisfied that their proposals did not form part of this proposal. That way we can't even say that there was a quality public debate. We don't know what the police say about this "younger brother" yet, I'm using the term "minister" as they're led by experiences in this area. What we have received with the bill, in the explanation, is the experience of countries far more developed than Serbia, such as Germany, where the experience of volunteer police officers doing this job, Italy or France, which have their own municipal police, Slovenia, which has municipal redistribution and municipal redistribution laws, and the UK, which traditionally has local police, i.e. The local sheriff. What concerns us is the financing and possibility of realising these things, more specifically, forming a special service for the municipal police. I'm not worried about whether the reduction of employees in local self-government will arise as a problem, because these people who need to be fired, or taking social programme or severance, will be able to hire as municipal inspectors, because financial opportunities dictate how many municipal inspectors they will be, and not the wishes of the Ministry of Local Self-Government. What is also worth mentioning is the division of citizens in the first and second order, in which second-row citizens in the municipalities are denied the right of municipal order. This right was given exclusively to cities. If we take into account the fact that some of the former municipalities have acquired the status of the city so far, make sure that they have neither the opportunities nor the power nor the financial resources to do their own work as planned, which means that they only care about the status of the city and employees of local administrations in the city, but not in municipalities. I must remind myself that the competences of the municipal inspection are, I will refer to the capital, Belgrade, exclusively provided for by the Law on Municipal Works and Decisions made by the City Assembly, as early as 1998, in which Article 2 says - the municipality, the city, or the city of Belgrade, in the further text of the municipalities, in accordance with this law, provides conditions for the performance of municipal activities and their development. Has the city of Belgrade managed to secure these funds, so we can go into the realisation and adoption of this law, or is it yet to be provided? If we take into account the fact that there is already a media pump in the capital, that it has been negotiating for months to deal with a reduction in transfers from the republican to the city budget and that between five and 5.5 billion dinars, Belgrade has made it clear that it cannot organise such a new service. DS officials, angry with all of this, aware of the situation, say, of course, the ruling majority in the Belgrade City Assembly, that decentralisation works by giving someone jurisdiction, giving them the money to exercise that jurisdiction. We ask an open question – who collected political points on decentralisation, especially in the pre-election campaign? Is there some kind of disrespect for decentralisation in relation to the municipality towards the city, not the city towards the republic? Is the proposal of these members, senior DS officials, to reduce the government's administration, cabinet numbers, advisors, or the number of ministers, to provide funds for the implementation of this law? None of these proposals came across a positive reaction when the opposition suggested it. I suggest that this be suggested by the ruling majority, there may be some positive change in that part. If we consider that the ruling set in the city of Belgrade would want to get everything almost from the Republic and if we consider that the same political party is in power in the Republic and in the city of Belgrade, we will see an example of how the city administration has decentralised its municipalities, city municipalities in the city of Belgrade. If we also take that fact that the city administration has authorised certain municipalities to be those which will issue documents to citizens, in particular copies of the birth, deceased, nationalities, etc., and that they have no compensation for it, because only citizens pay administrative and republican fees, we can conclude that the city has not fought for decentralisation, especially the municipality or SO in its city. The Law on Community Works states, in Article 6, which has a subtitle – providing conditions for the performance of municipal activities, ensuring that the municipality provides for organised and permanent operation of municipal activities, and in particular material, technical and other conditions for the construction, maintenance, operation of municipal facilities and for the provision of technical and technological unity of the system. From this we can see that municipalities and cities have invested in municipal infrastructure, or municipal enterprises, for decades, years, and that today-day there is insufficient capacity for certain municipal enterprises to comply with the basic norms of the municipalities or cities in which they are formed, so that the sudden formation of an institution such as a municipal police officer, physically, in fact, with the competences of the 1998 Law is impossible and that is not what the minister and MPs of the ruling majority want to say. This law has a duty to obey the norm, and the minister himself says, "Let it go to the city, and we will see how it goes, and then we will convey these responsibilities to the municipalities." If we consider that in the newly created cities, which have almost received the status of the city, the money is the most painful point, we ask the question – how will the city or municipality that has obtained the status of the city provide such funds? From the communal tax, or from the collection of the rent of a particular piece, from the privatisation of a utility company, from the rental of a utility company, or from any other kind that can help the municipality budget, i.e. The new-born city, to organize this police communal service? If we take into account that institutions that do not have the means, according to these laws, are obliged to maintain facilities, to have new equipment, to have a new rolling stock, to have everything the police have, would the state help them in some sense, as the police of their younger brother, to train in the police system, to look like municipal police officers, given that this decision is made by the city's assembly? There are some decisions made by the city’s council, not even the city’s congregation asks itself everything. The city hall wonders what a cop will look like, and what his jurisdiction is, he's wondering about the city's bigger. It is again a relationship to decentralisation, when we know that the ruling majority has a city council, and that everyone else who participated in the elections has city councils, but they have no right to discuss it. Emergency and rescue functions. Article 5 of the proposed law says - the public police are taking urgent measures to protect the environment, protect against natural and other disasters, protect against fires and other protection from the city's jurisdiction. Do we have two levels, or two types of firefighters, or two kinds of river police officers, police interns, do these municipal police have a strategic plan for anti-urban protection, as security is mentioned here against the elemental disasters? I ask another very important question – who is at all to blame that these institutions have no means and how can the challenges of this institution be justified in the best possible way? An example from the city of Belgrade, as we see there are many examples in Belgrade, as the largest city, and this applies exclusively to cities. We have to mention the reasons for the current municipal disorder, who's to a greater extent the culprit and who's not. A classic example is the Old Town municipality, where merchants sell used textbooks from the hood, or car trunks on Kosovo Street, where the dealer proved that the municipal inspector can't do anything to him, and the communal inspector can't do anything even though he comes out five times on the ground because he has no authority to confiscate goods. We ask the question - who seized the authority of the municipal inspector to confiscate the goods? The city. The city inspector can take away the goods, but apparently that job didn't work properly and because the city denied the municipalities of x-authority, and this is how municipal inspectors are supposed to function, you're in a position to form communal police officers. No one asks the question, what is the cause of the existence of traffickers on the streets of Belgrade. I'll remind you that poor privatisation, poor economic policy and the state of business have contributed to the way people manage, to resell products on the street, so that their home budget can be filled so much that they can survive, not afford a luxury. Taking into account the fact that the temporary administration in the municipality of Zemun, who broke up legally concluded contracts with employers and the Municipality on the lease, on which they exposed their products and reselled clothes, groceries and everything that brought them a piece of bread, because it did not decompose them, but told them that they rose Zemun, left a large number of unemployed people, left a large number of people on the street, that what was left of the goods sold to them, so that they could fill the home budget. Personally, I don't mind, under this law, having control, but control is carried out in a positive way. You tradesmen need to provide halls, get them working conditions, get them contracts to protect themselves, so nobody robs them, nobody steals them, so they don't raise their rent prices. All that when you secure it, control is acceptable. You all, about, have an idea of how much it costs to rent one booth at a fair. It can't afford any trader, not a dealer or producer of any product all the time, to sell it as high as possible. These prices and services you have, you make people manage to resell in markets, streets, markets in their goods. While I'm at the capital, Article 9 – The concept and the performance of the business, he says, 'The affairs of the municipal police, in the sense of this law'. I will specify only one point, since this member has been quoted several times – maintaining communal and other law order from the importance of municipal activity, and then says – water supply, waste and atmospheric waters, public cleanliness, underlining, "public cleanliness", transport and disposal of municipal and other waste, local roads and streets, underlining, "local roads and streets", traffic markings and signalling, parking, under-parking, parking, transport of passengers in urban and suburban traffic, auto-taxes, undermining and "auto-taxis transport", setting up temporary business facilities, fire protection, environmental noise control, control of service time, etc. We've already talked about how many municipal facilities there are, what they belong to a municipal facility, municipal enterprises, and what it all falls under. This is another evidence in support of the fact that there are no means to do so, because they are now barely supporting themselves. A walk in Belgrade last month was as risky as an extreme sport. From windows, roofs, facades, there were bits of concrete, umbrellas, pots. In the underground passageway at the "Albania" Palace, bricks and aluminum structures were detached. "Belgrades" twice dropped glass over 100 kilos. Similar dangers are constantly lurking on citizens of Belgrade, and the most common reason is the failure to maintain buildings, neglect, such as leaking air-conditioning or throwing off the terrace of garbage, picnics, crumbs, and even syringes in some parts of Belgrade. I'm asking, who's to blame? Is the city government or the newly formed municipal police officer, or city inspectors, municipal inspectors, communal? Who's to blame? Is it the citizens' fault that they're passing, at all, that way? They say local roads. Local roads, now it's clear to everyone, have the privilege exclusively of a pre-election campaign. Local roads are built, clean, cut, exclusively in the election campaign. If you take an example of the municipality of Voždovac, where the elections last week, that the first time after 30 years has been paved the way from Avala to Banjaca, you understand that I am right. So local roads, especially suburban settlements, receive attention exclusively in the pre-election campaign, because they are not funds for budgeting, and the last hole was played. When the election campaign arrives, the local road, especially suburban, gets attention. It's said in some polls that there's been a lot of riots, you can't park whoever you want and wherever you want. I ask you a question, who's to blame? How many garages in the capital? What's an hour in that garage? How much parking space is there? How much can you make in a parking lot? How long can you stay in a parking space? First one message goes through SMS, second message, third message, and re-parking. Parking is not a heavy obligation, since citizens are used to it, even though you take money from their SMS messages, but one simple question – how much does "Parking Service" earn? How much does Parking Service pay state rent for city building land? How much does this place charge the tenants, i.e. The vehicles that park there, the citizens of Belgrade? Then you have that situation to run out of payment cards, and they leave you a payment card that says you're illegally parked and fined 50 times bigger, as if the punishment had been charged by the traffic police, not the city's municipal enterprise, and it's not an extra ticket based on the damage of standing in the space that someone rented, but a ticket that says that you've illegally parked and then the court, even, works in the service of that company and forces the citizens to pay parking tickets that the company has glued to the citizens on the towel. Excuse me, Madam Chairman, may I continue, after the 20 minutes have expired, if there are no speakers after me?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22083	You cannot continue, since this is the course of a session in which the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, and only then is it time for parliamentary groups. Thank you. Does the word want the president of the Group of Members of the ZES? (No) If not, we move to the course of a session in which the right to the word belongs to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS - JS Parliamentary Group, the NS MP Group, the G17 Plus MP group, the DSS MP group, the ZES Group of MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia and the SRS Parliament Group, that a total of 11 speakers were reported, with MP Janko Veseinovic giving up the debate. I give the word to the messenger of the people, Djordju Milicevic, and after him is the word of Alexander Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22084	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to repeat once again what Mr Petronijevic, as the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, has said, in principle, that our parliamentary club will support this legislative proposal. I want, first of all, to say that we support the goal that is to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal and by forming a municipal police force in Serbia's cities, which is that in a better and better way, the problems that citizens face on a daily basis, which the municipal authorities cannot solve in an efficient manner. The legislative proposal should create conditions for the more efficient operation of city administrations and the realisation of city policies, as has been said, as well as to contribute to the establishment of municipal order in municipalities across Serbia. The goal, therefore, is to form the municipal police as the new authorities of cities, which will lead to more efficient work by city administrations. The communal police, as has been said, will have special uniforms, will take care of the municipal order, will cover a wide range of municipal problems, will have official status and certain penalties are provided for to interfere with their work. Irregular parking, public land use, waste disposal, dog owners taking their pets on a leash, maintaining order in the area of municipal and other waste disposal, maintaining order in the area of water supply, draining, public cleanliness, are just some of the problems the municipal police will solve. As I said, communal police officers are supposed to wear uniforms, but also to legitize citizens, give warnings and oral orders, retain those responsible, or persons who have committed a certain offence. What was somewhat controversial and caused a certain debate just prior to the preparation of this legislative proposal is the use of the intended means of coercion, and this is now approximately defined in the following way: physical strength, official staff and means of binding, communal police officers should use it in the manner provided for by the Police Act and the sublaw on the means of coercion. We think it's a good thing that, as far as we can understand it, cities have been given the opportunity to specify the responsibilities of the municipal police. So, once again I want to point out, we support this proposal, but in order for it to be fundamentally applicable, certain doubts to be addressed, or once again to answer certain questions. For example, Article 5 provides that the municipal police are to take urgent measures to protect the environment, protect against natural and other disasters, protect against fires and other protection against the city's jurisdiction, when these measures cannot be taken in due time by other competent authorities of the city and by authorised organisations, which is immediately notified by those authorities or organisations. In our opinion, Article 5 needs to specify the term 'emergency measures' by referring to a certain regulation or by defining this concept in the law itself. Also, in the same article, item 1, the term "timely" should be defined. The question arises – who initiates the taking of municipal police actions when it comes to emergency measures and on the basis of what act, how does the municipal police find out that the competent authorities cannot take appropriate safeguard measures in due time? It is not clear in Article 2, paragraph 2, when other forms of threat are considered to exist under Article 5, but they are neither mentioned in Article 5(1). In Article 9 paragraph 1, point 5, it is unclear what it means, let's say, "support the enforcement of regulations", which is where that support consists. In addition, the proposal set out in Article 9(1) may conclude, such as, among other things, at the very beginning of the debate, that the affairs of municipal inspection and municipal police are identical jobs, which should not be. Article 12, for example, stipulates that the strategic plan and annual work plan of the municipal police is to be coordinated prior to the adoption of regulations and appropriate police planning acts, as well as with views on priorities for security and property in the city. We believe that this provision should be more precise, as much as would be prescribed whose views it is. And the question is, can attitude be the basis for setting priorities? As we could hear from Mr. Minister, he said this shouldn't be a problem. In Article 18, a municipal police officer is prescribed to issue mandatory instructions and bans and imposes measures and actions that directly depend on the successful performance of the work of the municipal police. From this established standard, it seems to us that it cannot be concluded by which the oral order is proved, nor by the obligation to comply with the oral order, nor by the sanctions for non-execution. In Article 22, for example, Article 2, it is prescribed that the cases of municipal police officers are temporarily withdrawn to surrender to the competent authority or to deal with those cases in accordance with the authority’s mandate. It is unclear from the very provision which the competent authority is concerned. Article 43 provides that anyone obstructing or preventing a municipal police officer from performing municipal police activities will be punished for a fine of between 10 and 50 thousand dinars. This provision is contrary to Article 3. The law on offences, which stipulates that no one can be punished for an offence, nor can other criminal sanctions be applied to him, if that act has not been committed by law or by law based on a regulation laid down and established as an offence. We believe that standards should be laid down to define the obligations of natural and legal persons in relation to the jurisdiction of the municipal police, and only then to impose a criminal sanction for non-compliance with those standards. Otherwise, the prescribed infringement provision in Article 43 is not applicable in the infringement procedure. In addition, the question arises, among other things, – should it be established on the basis of which procedural rules the municipal police act when carrying out the procedure under the jurisdiction laid down by this law? As has already been said, the question of the need for financial resources to implement this law is also raised. In light of the proposal for a law on the municipal police, it states that implementing this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that additional funds for education and the start of the work of the municipal police should be provided in cities' budgets, not indicating how high these funds are. It is obvious that these funds will not be small and that the proposed law is not synchronised with government measures prescribed to reduce the total number of employees in local self-government and to reduce the total volume of funding for local self-government employees. It seems to us that all city administrations, in fact, want to see the formation of the municipal police as soon as possible, but it may happen that, after adoption, this institution may not live in all cities, bearing in mind, above all, a reduction in the transfer from the republican to the city budget. It's good when decentralisation works, when cities are given certain powers, but it would be good if they were provided and the funds, in order for this goal, which is extremely important and which we absolutely do not dispute, to be implemented. If the proposed legal text is adopted, and we believe that it will be adopted, so that we do not have some problems later, after adoption, which we do not consider to be the goal of either the promoter or those who support this legislative proposal, we believe that certain questions should be answered during this debate in principle and during the debate in particular. Once again, I would like to remind you that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will in principle support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22085	The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Ilic, and after it is the Messenger of the people Simo Vukovic; if it is not in the hall, then the Messenger of the people Milos Radulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22086	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the Law on the Communist Police, I would like to point out that we are passing another law ensuring that the city's competence is exercised in areas and issues which already had its own legislation, which, apparently, has not delivered satisfactory results in the implementation and enforcement of legal obligations by already existing bodies and organisations. The adoption of the law on municipal police establishes a specialised body to ensure that the city's competence is exercised in areas, i.e. issues of municipal activity and protection of the environment, people and goods, but also to ensure protection and maintain order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public buildings. We come to a situation where we adopt new laws, extend competences, prescribe new procedures and set up new bodies for the implementation of existing legislation, for which implementation and enforcement already existed by the law of certain bodies. There is a Law on municipal activities, works of general interest, which are carried out in such a way as to ensure that the needs of users of municipal products and utility services are met. The supervision of the application of the existing law, as well as the legality of the work of public utility companies and other undertakings carrying out municipal activities, shall be carried out by the municipal, or city administration, and the tasks of inspection oversight of the application of this law and of the regulations adopted under this law and the exercise of municipal activities shall be carried out by the municipal municipal inspector, with the taxation of those powers. Environmental protection involves a set of different procedures and measures that prevent environmental threats, with the aim of preserving ecological balance. Any disturbance in the environment leads to environmental disorders and social relations disorders, which are interrelated and conditional. As part of the city's environmental management, the Secretariat for environmental protection is responsible and there is a city environmental inspection, whose responsibility is to care for the application of the Environmental Protection Act. Keeping order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public buildings is also regulated by law and there are inspection services, for which the procedure and jurisdiction on ageing and the application of these laws are prescribed. All existing inspection services, when implementing those laws, have the possibility of police assistance, where appropriate, and the inspectors themselves have the property of officials who have protection in criminal and criminal proceedings. If we find that there are already regulations for the regulation of those areas, authorised implementing bodies, enforcement of prescribed standards, and, too, we find problems in implementing these legal standards, because of human resources, insufficient funding, intricacies and relaxed, insufficiently active involvement of professional services, who guarantees that the new law on the municipal police will experience its full affirmation in implementation and that there will be only one of the laws that we have to put on paper at this time and within this time? In this regard, it cannot be without asking the question of the declared rationalisation and cost reduction in all areas of social life, primarily, given the current material situation in society, at which no sources of funding can be found for the already existing institutions at this point. According to Article 2(2), every 5,000 inhabitants are predicted to be no more than one municipal police officer. For the city of Belgrade, this, in particular, means that about 350 new people in the state administration would be employed. This is contrary to the international community's recommendations that the administration in Serbia is too numerous, inefficient and expensive and must be reduced. The introduction of 350 municipal police officers would cost around 10m euros, of which only employees would go to staff costs annually close to threem euros. So that money can build a dozen kindergartens, or 20 kilometers of sewerage, or about 200 kilometers of roads. On the one hand, we have a government that appeals to citizens, to save because of the economic crisis, a government that invents new charges for citizens, through raising fuel prices and increasing mobile phone impulses, to fill the budget, and, on the other hand, huge funds are being wasted on the creation of municipal police. From all this, we see that the only benefits of this law will be the DS, and the citizens of Serbia – only direct damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22087	The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22088	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a law on the agenda that is essentially in line with the law on local self-government adopted at the end of 2007, which concerns the jurisdiction of cities and the city of Belgrade. Under the law, cities and the city of Belgrade are given the opportunity to educate the municipal police, to organise the activities of the municipal police. So, any city can provide and do municipal police work through certain perpetrators. It is normal to expect this law with impatience and we have no clear reason for its delay at all, because the Law on Local Self-Government and the City of Belgrade was passed in late 2007, and now half-2009 has passed, which means that this law has been waiting for a year and a half. The law refers to 23 cities and the city of Belgrade. If we take these cities and the city of Belgrade to live somewhere around five and a half million inhabitants, that means, by the standards that exist, that a municipal policeman comes to a maximum of five thousand inhabitants, so we can calculate what the number of these municipal police officers is. It's an army of people, about 1,200 to 1,500 people. What is an important question for all of us, especially for the DSS MPs, is the very way of determining these people, and I'll explain later, and their jurisdiction. The conditions for admission of people working in the municipal police state that it is mandatory to pass exams within two years of the day of entry into service. Hypothetically, I'm about to state a situation that can happen. Either of us can walk the park, or do something that's within this law, basic provisions, and Article 1 describes. to do certain damage. A communal officer, in accordance with the powers he has, applies physical force, inflicts certain injuries, so to speak, the citizen of that city and the citizen of that city is now in a position to complain. Who? Measures to protect a citizen are listed in Article 29 – Control by solving complaints. Each of the MPs can appeal to the municipal police, anyone can file a complaint if they feel that an illegal or incorrect application of the authority of a municipal police officer from Articles 17 to 24 of this law has violated his rights. The complaint shall be lodged within 30 days. The head of the municipal police, or authorized person, of his position and of any measures he has taken, must inform the applicant of the written reply, within 15 days of the receipt of the complaint, which concludes the proceedings under appeal. In cases where the complaint or data collected in the procedure of the head, or, in the case of an authorised person, suspicion arises that, following the application of the authority referred to in Article 1, the municipal police officer has committed a criminal offence for which the list of cases is being prosecuted, the Commissioner of the municipal police shall make the list of cases subject to the decision of the Board of Appeal. What concerns us all is that the Board of Appeals is educated by the city's assembly, consisting of a president and four members; it is mandatory to appoint three council members of the city's assembly, the chief of municipal police and a police representative. The city administration's taking people to the municipal police. The Chief of Police is relying on the proposal of the city's chief of staff. The committee will be joined by committees, and the ruling majority will determine which committees will enter. Any citizen who has suffered any damage from a municipal officer who has exceeded his authority complains to whom? The one who appoints these people in the service. Normally, that's what's causing all of us to doubt and fear about how these people are going to act. The powers given to workers of the municipal police say that the control of their work is done, Article 32(3), by the minister responsible for local self-government, i.e. adopts a regulation on how to determine the specific psychophysical capacity referred to in point (1) of Article 1(1) of this Article. Point 1. says – it has the psychophysical abilities necessary to perform the activities of the municipal police, which are proved by the doctor's confidence of an authorized health care institution. I ask the question, is it the Minister of Local Self-Government who is competent, who will give an opinion on who has psychophysical abilities for this job? It is, in essence, Mr. Minister, the job of the police and the minister of police. What is particularly indicative of people being admitted to the municipal police is determined that a municipal police officer can also be the one who has not endured a sentence for more than six months. DSS MPs believe that the work of a municipal police officer with such powers cannot be done at all by persons who have sustained punishment on any basis. You already have it in educational institutions, in various supervisory institutions, that regardless of whether a person has endured a punishment based on a traffic violation or anything from 10 to 15 days, he cannot be employed, he cannot start a working relationship. Especially if we have this situation, we hire a person in a service that has great authority. I will read what powers are and what jobs are of a municipal police officer – providing the city's competence in matters of communal activity, environmental protection, people and goods, ensuring the protection and maintenance of order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public facilities, as well as the smooth implementation of the law of certain business in the city's jurisdiction. It's a wide range of their jobs. Each citizen raises suspicions and, at the same time, fears that a person who, on any basis, is being punished for up to six months in prison is doing such a responsible job. It's, believe me, indifference and an amazing fact. I hope to be able to complete this presentation, Madam Chairman, during the duration of direct transmission. If it happens not to be in direct transmission, I welcome all citizens now, I wish them good night, and those who have patience and who will remain to look at us, understanding the problem, the essence and seriousness of this law – I want them to do so with great care, because it is a law that affects the lives of citizens, especially if you have someone who is living in the situation of a city sheriff, so to speak, and then starts to apply force. He's allowed to apply both physical forces and batons and everything. I think, Mr. Minister, you've made it easy to understand some of the provisions of this law. You had the candidate pass the exam, that is, the municipal officer passed the exam after two years. Are you aware of what he can do in the period until the exam is passed? The essence of our proposed amendments is that the candidate for a municipal police officer takes an exam before the entry into force, especially in the final and transitional provisions, I will also read that, in Article 50, this law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and starts to apply after six months from the date of entry into force, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 45, 46 and 47. Why rush to the reception and why allow someone to enter a work relationship without passing the exam after two years? What about medical conviction? Every communal officer has to go on a once-a-year basis, because of the specificity of the job, to go to a doctor's appointment, and to get assurance that he's capable of working, psychophysically capable of performing his duty as a communal officer, not having city sheriffs. In doing so, what will be the problem, Mr. Minister, is that in most cities, the ruling majority will employ their soldiers, who will have one army and one relation to the people of the ruling parties, and others to parties that are not in the ruling majority, even to citizens who think contrary to the ruling majority's views. Otherwise, the arches and different criteria will have toward people who clearly support the ruling majority, are their members, and that is one of the big problems in this law. Second, making a strategic plan, Mr. Minister. Well, we have here that every law that the government adopts comes to the Assembly and the Assembly adopts it, and you here give that strategic plan, which is very important for the work of this service, brings a city council, and you know who makes up the city council. Do the city council make up opposition parties in the city? Give me an example of a city council on Serbia's territory that includes members of opposition parties. I think the strategic plan is very important and must pass the assembly procedure. When I say - the assembly procedure, I mean the procedure in the city assembly in which the argument and the committee of the ruling majority and the board of opposition parties will be crossed. In this way you have narrowed down the criteria for reception, that the ruling majority decide on them, then the mechanisms for seeking protection, where the city administration chief and commission composed of the ruling majority, and the strategic plan, which is very important in the function of this law, which also brings the ruling majority. This law is no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22089	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, since MP Srdjan Milivojevic has given up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22090	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, Mr. Minister, for the affairs of municipal inspection and police assistance, when necessary in the conduct of the affairs of the municipal police, we have received a new law and you have called it a law on the municipal police, and it is brought in because it is a matter of trend, or, as you said, reflects modern trends that show the responsibility of cities and maintain order in strengthening their partnership. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what will citizens, who are the target group of this law, in whose interest and for whose benefit this law is passed, be given a change in the color of new municipal police officers' uniforms, a new color of a vehicle in which you will paint vehicles in which you will go, by hiring, for example, in the city of Belgrade 350 new people, if the powers of police have not changed, or those you call the municipal police here? If the number of people was a problem, why didn't you hire them in part in municipal inspections and part in the police? What's going to change for a citizen who calls at 12 a.m. and because of a noise coming from a nearby cafe he can't sleep? Does it matter to him that a man who answers the phone is employed by the municipal police or the regular police, if it's very common for a man to come to the call and the intervention, who takes the data, says, "I can't do anything to them, and in an hour you can expect the boss of that place to knock on your door or some offended guest you dare to report?" Will something change with this law in terms of the effectiveness of responding to what is called a threat to the property of people, public order, peace or anything in this law? Whether I can see from any of the provisions a sign of that improvement, except that I know directly and see that we have expenses, because someone had to write this law, prepare it, and in preparation for this session and in the financial costs of this session, this law of yours is involved, and then you'll have to get new uniforms, who doesn't have coats, they'll have to make it or do it for these needs, and then we'll buy cars, we'll form commissions that will check the knowledge on that test that's scheduled, we'll have to train people, we'll have to hold them in a working relationship for a year, and then we'll just take the test, so they can really do this job. We'll have gross salary costs for 350 employees. Then, those regular controls of psychophysical abilities, departures to recreation and all the costs and benefits of people employed in budgetary authorities, the authorities of the administration and all that is called – one third of the population that is supported, as well as those thirds of the children, the elderly, who do not work, and all of them, means, two thirds of the people, sustains one third of the people in the economy and something that actually earns income. You know, a young friend of mine, I'm very proud of a colleague who finished his studies in America, when he came back, explained to me the situation in Serbia: "I thought that the yellow tape, which is called a privileged tape, should go to those who should arrive somewhere sooner and be those who carry passengers to work, to be an army, to be an ambulance, and to be important people who run this country. Then I realized that this middle tape, in which regular citizens go, is increasingly empty, because a growing number of them realizes that only this yellow tape, which is called a privileged tape, and I call it a tape of budget users, becomes the only tape that allows decent life in Serbia. ''Is it, as long as this tape can function as privileged, as supported, as an imaginary job of already existing organs, while conditions for making income that these are being supported by more and more slim and empty funds? I can't understand that at a time like this, which is called awareness of the crisis, the awareness of saving, we get an explanation of the law that needs some jurisdiction of local self-government to put into office, where you say you decided to settle this in a legally prescribed way, by passing laws at a republican level, because this law will reach into human rights and freedoms. Well, that's why we have to bring it to a republican level! So you are aware that there will be a measure of coercion, of taking some things, perhaps even unjustly, of returning, and to you the highest argument, the ultimate reason – to reach out to human rights and freedoms as this flossula has become common and has entered our ears. I ask you, only otherwise defined, and what about the rights of people to live decently and that from their work they can support such bureaucracy that does not give effect, as I have described to you, when you report someone? Could it have been better for this law to be passed at a republican level, so that in a unique, single and comparable way, compared to 23 cities plus Belgrade, these jobs you define here? No, to you, the ultimate argument is the story of human rights, as a story which, in its essence, through this law is not consistently implemented. Please, gentlemen, that you still, and through these laws, preserve the unity of the Serbian state, in which 23 cities plus Belgrade have received the definition of the city, in which you wish to give the right to have city police. But you do not only give them the right. You give them the authority they need to create the funds for. How these funds will be created rather than by filling the city budget now. The city doesn't make money, the budget doesn't make money, he spends. In what light are these human rights, or human rights, described to receive adequate service for what they pay for the republican and city budgets? You wrote that the aim of this law is to ensure a peaceful and safe life for the citizens. The way and means to achieve this is to achieve supervision in public city, suburban and other local traffic, environmental protection, cultural goods, local roads, streets and other public objects of importance to the city and to carry out other tasks from the city's jurisdiction. Was the surveillance and protection of everything that's been numbered so far, unprotected, no one's field, which no one's worried about, or are you taking over someone's jurisdiction with this? What's to be justified, if it is anyone's jurisdiction, that it now goes to the jurisdiction of the municipal police? You say that local communities should play a growing role in developing preventive security programmes, in providing services directly and working closely with the police. Among the most important security problems you have listed the real ones – local traffic problems, vandalism, youth violence and violence in groups, noises, housing, garages, public buildings, business premises, damage to public, private property, etc. You're talking about things that happen, that exist as a problem, not realizing that these problems exist because we don't have an adequate criminal policy for violations, vandalism, violence and everything you've listed here. The problem cannot be solved from the end and from the consequences, but from the cause. You say that these problems are not solved because the capacity of police in a number of countries, including ours, is not enough, so citizens feel insecure and threatened, which violates their trust in democratic institutions. It is true that confidence in democratic institutions is threatened and that citizens feel insecure and threatened, but if you have defined that the problem is in the capacity of police, what is the problem where powers are already known, ways of handling, training, checking psychophysical abilities, the way the force is used, taking things away, all known, defined, strengthen the number of people where it should be? You're starting again from the beginning. Real people don't tear down cities to build new fortresses, fortifications and towers, and no one should think it's the beginning of the world. The institutions that already exist need, as well as every man, to draw out the best, to encourage, to strengthen; to the institution it is the easiest thing to do, and you have seen the problem well. It is no problem for a citizen to have no one to report vandalism, noise or damage to public and private property. The problem is that no one reacts, which the police make a record, which is lost somewhere between the police, the prosecution and the court; someone finds, a friend, a drawer that can no longer be easily opened in the statute of limitations, in the strength and power of the function performed by someone, someone's friend, so many people don't find justice. It is not a problem that a citizen has no one to report to, but that the application remains worthless paper, which testifies not on impotence, but on the lack of desire to solve these problems. You have indicated how problems like this have been solved in a closer environment, in our close countries, Montenegro and Republika Srpska, where the municipal police are being introduced, which is, in fact, responsible for the communal inspection. You, faster or better, reach out to those less famous, and very often to us more inappropriate solutions. Wasn't there enough reason for you not to get into a solution with the municipal police that the tax police, as police, called, had nothing to do with the quality of the work. We've never had a bigger tax ejaculation, evasion; tens of billions of dinars are being taxed, at the recognition of the tax administration's own leaders. So, just the name and organisation of an organ, as you imagined, not to solve anything, but this as you did, by intertwining jurisdiction, or, as you yourself said, that this is a younger brother of the police, I'd say - some entertainment group, which should entertain the crowd until the real police arrive, really can't do us any good. You predicted this law would define communal-police affairs. Believe me, I've been talking all along about communal affairs over which the municipal inspection has control, and the police, eventually, assists when necessary. You have defined it in article 1, but you cannot combine incompatible, communal-police affairs, so you have instructed them as communal, through Article 9, where many have objections, and then the need to intervene with police methods where this job cannot be done. It's interesting, Mr. Minister, I don't believe that you, when you were little, had the dream of being a minister of police, but you were given the authority to some city sheriffs, who might have dreamed of being police ministers, didn't even know that they were managed by this kind of, I don't believe, happiness, but an accident, you let them do this job. The solution you've predicted can be found in such a situation by an academic painter. You predicted that a city police officer, a sheriff, could have a high-level training facility, not tell which professions, and five years of work experience, and he can handle these jobs. Not only does he run things. You're saying he needs to be operational in these matters. Is that what you're bringing to the cartoonity of this solution? I don't think a law like this could come up and have this kind of surface being just an oversight, but under this law, it's not possible, but it's very clear to happen, because people who finish colleges in some professions don't have a job, and they'll probably reach out for a shortcut to get themselves bread and accept even this kind of work. Because no precise business or criteria have been defined, you can find yourself in a very funny situation with regard to this law, but the head of the municipal police, a body called the Commissioner, who will deploy all other people, and it is related to the mandate of one government in one city, or one municipality, will indeed be found with one very narrow provision. I'm not talking about a man, I'm talking about a law that directs him to take a very close look at the organization of the deployment and the adoption of that plan that everyone here has been talking about. I'm worried about one thing, you know, the devil's always hiding in little things. In Article 4, you wrote, you know that the first job is to assist the public police to assist the authorities of the city, as well as businesses, organisations and institutions which, based on the decision of the City Assembly, decide on individual rights of citizens, legal entities or other parties, etc. Is there a company that doesn't decide anything, about some right of citizens, legal persons or other parties? There is a assumption that the implementation of their executive decision will not be possible without the presence of municipal police officers or the use of the means of coercion. So anywhere is possible. You're simply saying that municipal police can appear anywhere in the city. That article 4 explicitly defines, without any dilemma. On the engagement of the municipal police, on the scope and manner of providing assistance, the chief of municipal police decides, within 48 hours of the submission of requests from the competent authority of the city, in accordance with the provisions of the Police Act. Now, the municipal police will enforce the Police Act. If it's not possible to implement that decision because of physical resistance, and even the municipal police fail, then we're going to ask the police to help us, according to the Police Act. Like I said, the party pre-group until the main entertainer comes, or "main star," which, by the way, has all the regular instruments to solve this problem and deal with them. In the event that emergency measures are to be carried out, you are amazing, you say – emergency procedures, accidents, accidents, and when measures cannot be taken in due time by the competent authority, the municipal police take urgent measures to protect the environment. In what procedure is it assessed, who estimates, who reports to whom, when? Do you know what an emergency is? Working in a large public enterprise, when people from the offices who haven't seen beyond the circle of two give us some instruction on conduct and rules of conduct, we often joke outside of Belgrade and say – one day we will be instructed to come to work on a tram in Novi Sad. They'll tell us, because you don't have a tram in New Sad, it's no problem, we'll build it. That's what this article of yours looks like to me. It doesn't matter if this can be applied in life, we'll adapt our lives to your demands, so if that's possible, we'll see. Cooperation with the police, this is terrible, means delivering personal data to citizens, vehicle data and other data from records kept under the law. The communal police, we gave her the law, will get it from the regular police. Don't accidentally need any information from the National Bank, it can't be obtained in any case, it's strictly guarded data, because monetary authorities should manage both politics and society, but leave it to the communal officers, who will be trained for a year without being able to take over their jobs, to own this and this data. What data can be a secret, we've seen from state aid control, a law which, hopefully, with amendments, will lose that kind of secrecy that you here, in fact, don't keep. I will not elaborate on Article 9, because many of my colleagues have made very thorough remarks about what the municipal police are doing and I think all amendments should be accepted there. What I think is a particular problem, is the use of means of coercion, from physical strength, through the official stick, to the means of binding, to the extent that, through the authority of the municipal police, we come to Article 28, where we even speak – if the use of the means of coercion causes physical injury or the death of a person, the chief of the municipal police submits a written report to the competent police administration. Are we talking about death because it's always possible and it's being processed here, or is there any particular reason for that? Do you want to calm us down as the exceptions to conduct, in terms of the use of the means of coercion, are particularly processed in the procedure – 24 hours for application, for the report, but you are not telling us, when this drastic case happens, under which laws are further resolved, covered and reported by them? There's a spot and a pain in the ass. We're in control of solving complaints. I will remind myself of the solidarity of health workers, of the solidarity of those who work in the police, but also of the solidarity of the wrong things, where such objections and such over-uses of force or use of the means of coercion rarely end up so that the citizen is right. It even seems a little funny when you say that, regardless of the procedure where these complaints can be resolved and controlled, the citizen, or the complainant, has all other means of legal protection to protect his rights and his freedoms. For me, the most controversial thing is that powers and actions are prescribed by the Police Act, and the manner and procedure of control – you, as minister of local self-government. What kind of relationship there can be found by a reasonable man, a well-intentioned man, I really don't know, but it's amazing that powers are prescribed by the Police Act, and the way and the procedure of control are done by you. I point to one very important thing, the position, duties, rights and liability of municipal police officers is applied and the responsibility applicable to the employees of the city's authorities. Is that appropriate for people with powers like this, to have the responsibility of all other employees in the city's organs, at any other jobs? I will not say – think about it, I ask you to correct it and to bring their powers into line with the responsibilities. Someone will be admitted into a working relationship, and in six months' time, I've barely been able to link the law enforcement force and your raving formation of a deadline in which you'll bring in everything that's related to the examination of psychophysical abilities and going to those checks, the formation of a commission and everything that's meant to be tested, but we've realized that within a period of six months, this is supposed to work. If within six months, when you enter the scene, you can only joke at the expense of the colors of your uniform and your vehicles and pay for it, or if one problem stemming from this law and which is why it is brought here will be resolved, it remains to be seen, but I am fundamentally doubtful and we will not vote for this law. Just to tell you that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as an authorised representative, will, upon returning from his reception at the Embassy of the Russian Federation, take the floor at the end if he arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22091	The word is from MP Zoran Bortic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22092	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, ministry representatives, esteemed fellow MPs, security problems in local communities, which are tightening not only in our country, but also in the most developed countries of the modern world, are increasingly burdened by state authorities, above all, by the Ministry of the Interior. Different forms of violations, disturbing public order and peace, endangering the property and integrity of people, disrupting the established municipal order and other forms of vandalism, to a great extent burdening police forces in our country to act preventively and to maintain public order and peace, especially in the cities of our country. So far, inspection bodies and municipal services had neither legal authority nor appropriate force of coercion, nor were they materially and humanly trained to carry out public order and peace activities. For this reason, it is justified that the Republic of Serbia adopt a law on the municipal police, which will greatly facilitate the work of the interior ministry, but also the work of the municipal services. At the same time, this law surrounds the normative regulations of local self-government in our country and the alignment of this area with the regulations of the Council of Europe, which point out that local communities should play a growing role in the development of preventive security programmes and in direct security to their residents, and that they should work closely with the police. Modern European regulations, as the most important security problems, which sees the role of local communities, highlight problems in local traffic, vandalism, youth violence and violence in the group, raids on apartments and other public buildings and other business premises, public and private property damages and others. Experience from European countries, such as Italy and France, in which local police have a significant role to play in doing legal police in the local area and is under the supervision of state police, or from countries in our environment, such as Slovenia, where local police are responsible for traffic security control on roads, in settlements, in maintaining public order and in some other public security tasks of the local community, is widely used to regulate the work of the municipal police in Serbia as well. In short, given the above-mentioned other comparative experiences, it can be concluded that the introduction of the municipal police in Serbia is accompanied by modern trends that highlight the new role and responsibility of cities and other local communities in maintaining order, in strengthening their partnership with police. This law creates a legal framework for the organisation and operation of the municipal police. It is logical to assume that the introduction of this authority into our system of security in local communities will help eliminate existing weaknesses and increase the security of citizens and their property. Dear fellow Members of the People, having in mind that any authority by which state, by legal means, is authorised by an authority, may be entrenched in human rights, it is necessary to provide this law clearly and multiplely with mechanisms for the control of the municipal police, in particular the control of the use of coercion funds, Article 27, along with police reports, Article 28, and the control of the resolution of complaints, Article 29. This is because right now the power to use the means of coercion is mostly used to reach human rights. Therefore, the use of these funds should be continuously supervised and controlled. Starting with all the above, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, in voting day, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22093	The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22094	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to continue the presentation and to understand how I left off, I need to read again the basics and provisions of Article 9 which I have highlighted, in order to give their explanation as simple and precise as possible – related to the maintenance of the municipal order relating to public cleanliness, local roads and streets, car taxis, parking, transport, suburban, urban, setting up temporary business facilities and protection against noise in the environment. I explained that "Parking service" works, who is guilty of illegal parking, what are the reasons for improper parking of vehicles, which I do not justify, in any case, but the cause of the problem does not solve this law, the cause of the problem remains the same, until the city administration of the competent city or newly formed municipalities engage the city administration as it should have been long ago. The question arises, why is there a big crowd in Belgrade itself? We remember the story of opening a bypass around Belgrade, which was tasked with discharging traffic from the city centre. Of the investment work, which received more media than functional attention, we remain to conclude that the crowd in Belgrade is still the same, if not greater. Is the crowd in Belgrade, perhaps, the result of the creation of a light Spanish subway that has promised us the ruling majority in the election campaign? Whether it's just a promise or a rail subway that's in place, and not that needs to be operational, we're just going to see in the next period. Are the solutions to crowds in Belgrade and bridges across Sava and Danube that exist only in newspapers, with different models, different numbers? How many bridges do we have at all, some time, when I read the newspaper, I don't feel like living in Belgrade. Are the cheap taxi associations, which use some tycoons to launder money, a solution to the crowd in Belgrade? I think we'll come into a situation in a few years to drive a pair of tables through Belgrade for one day, and with an odd number of other days, if the crowds in Belgrade are solved by municipal police officers and the city administration, as is being dealt with now. Is the traffic ratio in Belgrade and the "Belgrade Road" ratio, as a public utility and city administration, the reason one street is paved three times? Is there a reason one street in the city center is changed and paved three times? How many times is everything still being patched up and processed during just one calendar year? Or is it because it's a pre-election campaign, so these roads are being worked intensively, to make up for everything that's been missed in the past term, or for the past four years? Noise protection. For noise protection, we have the worst examples in Europe. The protection against noise depends on the strength of the owner of the restaurant, on its power and its financial resources. If noise protection is impossible, let's say, in a circle of St. Sava Hospital at the train station, where there are the most elite clubs and clubs, in which at night from the crowd, from visitors to these restaurants cannot live, not to be treated from a heart attack or any other kind of disease in this hospital, then we can imagine what is going on in the local environments where there are no hospitals. How does it work in clubs that live and work next door? How does it work on the rivers? How does it work on rafts? Who ever measured the volume of those sounds? Who was it when he responded to the complaint that it was loud music? How big is it, say, on Topcider Hill, the Shadow, the Sava echo, because of the rafts, and when did someone react to it? Citizens of Topcider Hill and Senjak pay taxes for an extra zone, and they can't sleep properly at night. Now we're waiting for more payments that will come with a sign - a tax on municipal police. I'd also like to remind you of something that's going through the daily press. In a daily newspaper, it seems to me that "Politics" is at stake, it is said that representatives of Belgrade are not satisfied that their two main remarks have not entered the bill. The first remark is – a municipal police officer will not be able to carry a gun, and as a means of coercion he can use physical strength, official bat and binding tools, Alimpic adds; otherwise, the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. He says – we need a service that is stronger than a construction inspection and that can, without a long procedure, stop works. They should be able to confiscate the material, if necessary, and bring in the investor. It's the only way to solve this problem, Alimpic says. Imagine this statement by a senior DS official on how to address the issue of illegal construction, or legalisation in the city of Belgrade! This is his proposal, which he says - to be kidnapped and detained, arrested, demonstrated by force, as it was done with the Zemun municipality, and finally reached the desired goal. It's probably a new system of democracy. In addition, I will also read to you Article 4 which says: "Help in executions (assistence). The communal police provide assistance to the city's competent authorities, as well as businesses, organisations and institutions which, based on the decision of the city's assembly, decide on individual citizens' rights." So this is where the city's assembly dares to decide the rights of citizens. That's something, Minister, which is not funny. It's something that sucks. It could fit the city's assembly to protect citizens' rights, not to decide citizens' rights. That's what the court does. I would also have to refer to some other members, but here is the same article: "The engagement of the municipal police and the scope and the way of providing assistance is decided by the Commissioner of the Police within 48 hours of the submission of the request of the competent authority", the competent authority, which is the chief of the municipal police, or in translation – the local sheriff, "i.e., authorized organisations, in accordance with the provisions of the Police Act on the procedure for providing assistance in executions", now be careful, the part I want to stress to you, "and the sublaw on how to conduct police work that is getting closer to the arrangement of this assistance". One of his colleagues read this sublegal act, and it is known how help is given and what services. Here, it allows the city's assembly, which has most of the ruling majority of DS, to adopt sublegal acts that can be very easy to use in addition to that, as said Article 7 paragraph 3: "The form and manner of co-operation of the municipal police and city inspection services is closer to the city's assembly". Here we come to the essence of the system of abuse and of what we fear most, which is the abuse of the municipal police. The city administration or the city may, for example, make the wrong decision because of the pre-election, say, campaign, because of corruption, because of friendly or party ties, the solutions to the collapse, the solutions to eviction, the solutions to the confiscation of property. It also has a municipal and construction inspector behind it at the time of the implementation of the solution, and a communal police officer and police assistance, which allows Article 8(3) of this bill. What does that mean, specifically? This means that the city or city administration can be infallible. No court, no municipal police, no opinion from a construction or municipal inspector in the municipality is applicable to the city administration. How can a citizen prove, when all these people appear on the doorstep, that they are in a trial, that they are in a legal process or in another procedure? Abuse is possible by this law. If you look at the number of solutions that have been annulled in the district court, the solutions of municipalities both first-degree and second-degree bodies, how many first-degree decisions the second-degree authority in the city has annulled, and how many decisions the district court has annulled, it is not difficult to conclude that abuse has occurred; or these services are not able to work properly, or they are abused for the sake of someone's interest. What's still wrong with this bill is that the mayor or city council will have their own police. This police can arrest, can apply force, can tie, can search, can take away, can do anything as legal, existing police, except they can't use firearms, which is kind of good, but communal inspection and police officers don't need means that they can give him physical application to get to the finish line. When a communal inspector sees a person committing a municipal offense, he is unable to decide at the moment, I mean a communal officer, whether that person committed a crime or a crime. If you consider, it seems to me, Article 30, which states that a fourth-degree high school can be a municipal officer and that there is a deadline when he will take the exam – how will he decide at that time whether the person committed a crime or a crime or, in general, did he commit an act? Now anyone who puts on a uniform has the right to search citizens, to legitize them, to search their cars, because he suspected something. We're going to have a situation where, mostly, they're party people, to calm down some things, and we're going to have a situation where that's how some goals are achieved, as well as now that "Parking Service" is particularly pounding fines and vehicle relations in one place, and it particularly tolerates other places. The abuse afforded by this bill, especially in the city of Belgrade, especially in pre-election campaigns, could be limitless. There's a commission here, there's no court, there's a commission here within 15 days, and that's where the case is closed. What if that answer is not valid, is it not of a quality, or is it unrealistic and untrue? What's a citizen to do? A citizen has to go to court. Will he go to court who abused his position? No, he's protected by a special commission. We're now in a situation where the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Malten, has immunity, that the court can't do anything about it, because it's protected. It's not a real situation, because of the abuse that is increasingly common, especially in public enterprises. To take a look at what the city administration has available for the time being – the secretariat for municipal and residential affairs is doing the work related to the development and performance of municipal activities, the organisation of municipal order in the city and the method of disposal of municipal waste, care for the provision of material and other conditions for the permanent performance of municipal activities, supervision of the performance of municipal activities, the organisation of zoohygiene, care for the maintenance of residential buildings and the security of their use, public procurement from the jurisdiction of the Secretariat, the marking of street and home numbers, and other tasks in accordance with the law and the statute of the city and other regulations. So, I'm just going to list a few of the things that the city's administration has at its disposal -- the Purity Maintenance Department, the Special Department for Waste Disposal, the Department for Maintaining and Editing Public Greens and Other Public Areas, the city's utility department, which also has its special responsibilities, the zoohigien sector, the housing sector, the economic and financial sector. To perform municipal activities, the Belgrade City Assembly established public enterprises – the JKP "The Water and the sewerage", the JPY "The Cemetery Services", the JKP "Belgrade Power Plants", the JKP "The City Markets", the JKP "The City Cleanness", the JKP "The Green Belgrade", the JKP "Infostan". In addition to these, the Belgrade City Assembly entrusted certain municipal activities to companies – JP "Serbiashum", "EDB Public Enlightenment", and KP "Dimnikar". Taking into account all these companies at the disposal of the City Assembly, more specifically, the city administration, and the number of employees, the absolutely unnecessary municipal police with such powers overlapping with the existing powers and public enterprises that exist within the Belgrade city. I don't know what it's like in these other cities that got the status of the city a year ago, but, generally, there's overlapping police officers, with their powers, and overlapping employees in the city administration, with these powers. It is concluded that there is no need for a municipal police officer to do a job that someone is already doing, plus what is said in one part of Article 9 – maintenance of municipal facilities. All these companies have utility facilities, machines, equipment, devices, fleet, boats, boats, homes, everyone has their own plan and work programme. This strategic plan and work programme, which is yet to be passed, can also not fit into the existing work plan, and then we come to a conflict of jurisdiction, that we don't know who's going to go after traffickers on the street who sell to earn a living on their families, or that we don't know who wants to put order on the rivers, because there are overlaps between the Belgrade Captain and the municipal police officer. The competencies of the municipal police in the countries of the region are different. In Zagreb, they maintain cleanliness and preserve public areas, remove snow and ice, drain waste water, take care of animal keeping and control parking. In Republika Srpska, Banja Luka, municipal inspection, even, oversees and maintains, edit, use and protection of municipal facilities and devices, care for parks, public courtyards, woodlands, works to maintain cultural, historical and national monuments. Their responsibility is also to place the company's name, inscriptions and advertisements, maintenance of the water network, public taps and fountains, riverbeds and river shores, as well as the disposal of garbage and construction shafts. They also control parking, traffic, hot water and gas networks, public lighting. The general assessment is that the establishment of the municipal police has led to more order in many areas. But what's the problem in this part? The caller is available for 24 hours, except for citizens' applications, the municipal police have their regular activities, such as the control of illegal sellers, the takeover of public areas, respect for working hours, etc. The problem is that the teams are mostly focused on the city centre, because there are not enough employees, because the whole service costs a lot, according to a statement by the city of Banja Luka. Some, even in the countries of the region, use municipal police to control noise, birthday celebrations, needless bell press, misbehaving. In Podgorica, the municipal police have existed since last year, but the penalties that the municipal police can charge are up to 20 times the minimum profit. So, in the construction season, they have one prizer, outside the construction season, and they have another valuer. In fact, outside the tourist season, they have a third price list. I will also remind you of article 11, which says the city council, on the proposal of the Commissioner of the Communist Police, brings a strategic plan of the municipal police, based on an assessment of the existing situation, etc. Now I ask the minister, who's not here, why is the city council bringing this proposal? Why isn't he participating in this congregation of cities? I guess the goal is to have all elected representatives in every city, no matter whether they're from a position or opposition. It is another system of abuse, in which the city council can bring something, in particular, a strategic plan, which can benefit only the ruling furniture and the abuses of the ruling furniture, especially as the plan can be changed. We came here, in fact, to the conclusion that the city council has its own police force. The minister said the municipal police, in a way, are the younger brother of the legal police, and if we consider the fact that the mayor is the beneficiary of this younger brother, then Dragan Gilas turns out to be a big brother, because he has his own police force. And considering how he got into the pioneer city room to shoot Big Brother, it's not hard to draw the conclusion that this law is being made. Article 17 – Warning: a municipal officer will warn a person who, by his conduct, by acting or by missing a certain action, can violate the law and other regulations of a regulated municipal or other order from the authority of the city. The warning shall be given orally, in writing or through means of public information. Now I ask you, what are the means of public information that a municipal police officer will issue a warning? Is that the Official List? Is that "Blitz," "Glass," or "Yellow Print"? What are these means of public information? Who's going to pay to publish a warning or a warning? Are we going to fill our pockets with some party buddy again? Imagine, someone commits a violation and announces a man at the Flash. Published, committed a violation of that and that, that and that, and gave a warning. It's such a nonsense of this Article 17 that it's no longer worth commenting on. Article 19 — a municipal policeman carrying out a check on the identity of a person whose conduct or performance is a violation of the rules of the area of the municipal police. The area of the municipal police is so far unknown. Now every municipal councilman who asks for a word and doesn't get it can be the subject of checking out a municipal officer or someone who wants to exercise his rights; they don't allow him to exercise his rights, they don't let him complain, they don't give him anything, he's going to be the subject of a check on a municipal officer. Or, you're waiting for the turn of entry to 'Arena' for a concert; you're not standing in the standing band and you're going to be subject to verification. In this way you can also collect ID numbers and what you need to run for local elections. Is the communal officer a person who, at the moment, with these school criteria, with no exams, an intern, or with both exams, capable of determining whether the person committed a criminal offence or a felony? It's not. Article 32(4) states that municipal police officers must have at least secondary education for a four-year period. Item 3 says – there is a test to carry out the work and apply the authority of a municipal police officer (hereinafter referred to as the exam) is not sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months. So convicts can be communal cops, too. It doesn't matter why someone was in custody; they didn't stop working in a state or other body early because of a serious breach of duty from a working relationship. What is this face that will determine what is more severe and what is a minor violation of duty from a working relationship? Someone could have been fired five times, in five different companies, for stealing, and here they will be admitted without any problems, because they meet the criteria of a high school of four years. To be clear, no offense to all high schools, but the practice and authority that should have a communal officer isn't for this kind of schooling. Article 33 says, "Communal officer - intern is required to pass the exam from the position of the 1st member no later than a year." What if he doesn't? For a year, he worked for free, for a year, whether he was getting paid or not, under question, and what damage, by quality or inadequacy, could he have done in that year? Article 34 – maintenance and improvement of the expertise of municipal police officers shall be ensured through professional training, as well as periodic checks of professional training, regular and extraordinary. This is a member of abuse. You don't like the communal cops, who silenced the music of someone who couldn't be silenced, and immediately goes for an extraordinary examination of psychophysical abilities. So he can send him to an emergency psych ward until he finds another job or doesn't quit, or make that test pass. The penalty for preventing the operation of a municipal police officer is between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars, to prevent abuse. Except that the deadline has passed, and apart from the fact that the Statute of the City has specified some responsibilities when it is to introduce order in the city administration, we cannot agree with the fact that the delay in the drafting of this law is of any kind other than economical. Since there are no economic reasons, especially in the city of Belgrade, let alone in other cities, this law will not revive and see the light of day as one imagined it. Article 21 says – the examination of the person and the case shall be carried out directly or through the use of the technical means. It's probably a crowbar or a bonsec. Before conducting an examination of the case, a municipal officer will invite the person to give him an insight into the subject's contents, and if the person rejects it, he himself will check the subject's contents. If the person is not the owner of the vehicle, the communal officer will destroy the vehicle and here is what he says – when the case is forced to open, the municipal officer will try to cause as little damage as possible, and if the damage occurs, he will ensure that the damage occurred after the opening of the case is fixed by photo or otherwise conveniently. What if the physical face isn't there? What if they got scared or ran away? Will he crash that face's car, will he do a search, because someone cut the fence in one piece, and in the other part, it's not, because the fence went over to the neighbor's and that's how he committed a communal violation? What's he gonna do, confiscate his scissors or his lawn mower, because he didn't meet the communal standard to cut his hair in front of his house, so the fence doesn't come in next door? Who will compensate for this damage done by a municipal police officer, when the commission can provide an answer within 15 days; it does not matter what nature, whether it is positive or negative, that is the conclusion of the case. The fight against lawless construction is in the judiciary. The fight against a compromised legalisation process is in the administration, not in the municipal police. The struggle for respect and development of urban planning documents that allow a precise picture of the construction, exactly where it is and which object must be, depends exclusively on the city's administration, does not depend on the municipal police officer. When order is introduced in these three areas and order is introduced into those basic norms and parameters that are known and available to the public, which is where it should be, which garden in which length, width, relative to the power of the owner, which the boat, the raft, must stand, when you have marinas that will be nice to accept all boats at a cultural and normal price, when Belgrade has a port right, when all these bridges, roads, when clubs in special locations are well protected from noises, etc., then we can talk about the municipal police. Until then, the municipal police will have their hands tied and will face everything and everything, problems that are not her fault, and will be abused as public enterprises are now being abused. There are many public enterprises in Belgrade. It's clear how they can be abused. This is where the mayor lives, we clean the snow five times, and there's no punishment, and where the mayor doesn't live, there's no clean snow once and there's a penalty all you want. Now, that's the essence of the municipal police. I'll leave the remaining time to my colleague, and I'll get involved in the debate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22095	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and she was last registered on the list of entries for the word in the principled search.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22096	Ladies and gentlemen, we know that Mr Milan Markovic is very proud of every bill that comes to Parliament from his ministry and is very keen to defend the proposals. There is, in that sense, an orderly communication with the MPs, but when it comes to the acceptance of the amendments, it has not quite shown that the arms are wide. I remind you, I assume the minister is listening to two very important laws from just under two years ago, the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Self-Government. That law had broad support in the Parament. We Serbian radicals did not vote for the law, but we had a positive view of most members of both laws, and then, Mr Markovic, you persuaded us to pass laws that are for a long time, which are good, and are really good and should have been for a long time, but you, not two years after that, were given the task of changing those laws. You've announced a change in the Law on Local Elections. In one part of this law, you are changing the Law on Local Self - Management. In the light of the proposal for this law, you have indicated which members of the Constitution you have called for in the construction of the law, so you are talking about art. 177, 189, 190. I must tell you, Mr. Markovic, that there is no legal basis for passing such a law in any of these members. These members speak of the distinction between the Republic, autonomous provinces and municipalities and speak within the competence of municipalities, among other things, that the municipality is competent to regulate the area of municipal activity. I therefore draw your attention that this bill is unconstitutional. There is no legal basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for police to relate to local self-government. The police are bound exclusively to the state, exclusively to the state administration, and certainly not to local self-government, as you provided for in this law. We warned you about this when the law on the capital was being discussed, because there is, among other things, the possibility of this police being in place. If we follow the analogy of this proposal, then we can expect Dragan Sutanovac to appear here and propose a law that will provide for the municipal army. Mr. Minister, we have a legally decorated municipal area in Serbia. Local self-governments and cities and municipalities have been arranged, by their statutes, by decisions, under the Law on Local Self-Government, by the existence of municipal inspectors, by communal directors, and by all means, by the law on local self-government, by the authority of these services. Do they do their job and how much they do their work, it's a matter, first of all, of the elders of those organs, and of you, as a resolute minister, because of communication with local self-government, because of your jurisdiction when it comes to local self-government. Therefore, it cannot be expected that this law and the introduction of the municipal police will bring any good or any better than the current state, when it comes to municipal action. One of the party's colleagues who will support this law mentioned noise in Belgrade, on Strahinjic Bana Street, which, as so far, could not have been prevented by municipal inspectors and municipal directors from bringing order, and these municipal inspectors have the police at their disposal, regular, regular, schooled police. If they couldn't do it, or they didn't want to, then we really don't see how the municipal police would do it. You remember, Mr. Minister, at the time you were a national MP, when we discussed the law that envisioned the introduction of the tax police, so some private police to maintain order in sports competitions, we told you that there was nothing from that job, that laws were passed that were inapplicable. And indeed, these laws, not even today, have been brought to life by these parts, and cannot be applied. When I read this text of the law, I marked some of the members I wanted to comment on, along with some of them I wrote "dangerous," because it's really dangerous for a man who's going to be a communal police officer, and there's already heard what he has to do or doesn't do in order for this job to be done, given the jurisdiction of this law, and with that jurisdiction you give him handcuffs and bats and let him do the job, without the presence of the real, normal police. What do you expect? Do you expect that when such a policeman comes to those cafes on Strahinjica Bana Street, at 2300 hours, he will be able to use handcuffs and bats himself? Do you think, when he comes to a place where street vendors, who, in your opinion, are in an unauthorized space, people will wait calmly and watch around, all people watch him humiliate them, handcuff them and use the bat, he beats them? Do you think people will wait quietly for such a communal officer? No, Mr. Milan Markovic, it's not good what you're doing. It would be good if it were insufficiently capable of communal inspection, communal inspectors and directors, for these people to be able to increase, if necessary, and to do their job in co-operation with the police, where the police need it. What is the meaning of the 5,000 inhabitants of a communal police officer? You're still here to tell us how it's going to be our neighborhood cop, etc. Do you have any idea where 5,000 people live? That one communal cop, instead of beating someone with the bat you gave him, can only get beat up. Really, completely abnormal and inapplicable. Imagine, when in this election campaign for local elections, you removed the gigs in Zemun from people who had neat contracts with the Zemun municipality, that at that time you sent these people your officers, that you had a regulated, or adopted, and already in the application of this law. What would you do? To people with orderly contracts, concluded with an authorized face and authorized authority, you would, apparently, put handcuffs on everyone else in the area and beat them with bats. I don't caricate, Mr. Minister, I'm talking. I'm convinced that you're aware that this law is what I'm saying and when I remember how you talked about the Law on Local Self-Government, I can't believe that this law, in a text like this, is your idea. You said, "That's the essence of why we're passing this law." Because one or similar, with some local sheriffs, they have many in the white world. Mr. Minister, in the white world, everyone has industrial production, Serbia is gone, so everyone has domestic banks, Serbia has none of them, so it's fuelling everywhere, it's buying up in Serbia, so the system institutions are operating everywhere, it's not working in Serbia. These are the problems that you should regulate with laws, that we are passing laws that will benefit Serbian citizens, not laws like this, which will not benefit them, but will further complicate the lives of citizens and the lives of people who will do this job for some salary that you will foresee here. When I speak individually, I'll draw your attention to some of the provisions of the laws that are mutually collegiate. It's amazing that we got something like that, in general, in the proposal. We have concentrated our amendments, which we have submitted in quite a number on this law in two groups. So, to avoid confusion, we are absolutely against the adoption of this law, first of all, because it is unconstitutional, then it is inapplicable and all that I have said and what I am going to say, but we have submitted amendments, because we know that we will adopt this law as it is; we have said that everything you do in cities you have to do and in municipalities, at least when it comes to communal activity. Why can't a town of 5,000 people have this cop of yours and the county can't? Especially, Mr. Minister, let's remember, when we discussed the former municipalities and the translation of municipalities into cities, how many discussions, how many amendments there were from the ruling coalition; some of them you adopted, where your local authority depended on the amendment. Unfortunately, these were your criteria and it's not good and it can't be good. A number of colleagues today talked about the introduction of a municipal police force as another 'violence on the villa', i.e. that, in this era of economic crisis, where it is constantly appealed to savings, this law will generate even more costs in the state register. You said that is not true, and in the light of the law, you say – implementing this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is really amazing. You further say – in the budgets of the cities and cities of Belgrade it is necessary, however, to provide additional funding for education, start-up of work, etc. Where will the funds take the city of Belgrade and the city budgets, if not from the budgets they receive from the Republic? I can't believe they're funding this from a communal account, Mr. Minister. I suppose you know that and you know that it's impossible, that it would be a violation for anyone who would do it from a communal account. You must all of you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia make it very clear and loud to say what the law you are proposing and how much costs are at stake, because we haven't forgotten your enthusiasm when you talked here that the number of employees in local self-governments will be reduced, based on that famous idea of yours, fascinating, how people are going to run, going after the presidents of the municipalities -- give me two or three thousand euros and I'm going to live at 3,000 euros for the rest of my life, or until retirement, another 20 years. Then We said unto you: there is none of this work. Mr. Markovic, you are both in the media and here, and when we spoke to you, you have repeatedly claimed that this project will be implemented until the end. You see, it didn't even start. The same will happen to you with this law. This law says, in Article 3 — the people of the municipal police. What kind of people, Mr. Minister, are you saying "communal police composition"? You just showed that you had a bad translator for this law. Of course, we still feel that what is foreseen in Article 3 is unacceptable, among other things, that the municipal police can also use certain means of coercion. When we came to these funds, I was already talking about it, said colleague Avramovic, it is absolutely unacceptable. In Article 4, you are talking about assistance in executions, or assistance. This is where we get to where your communal officer, with the bat and the cuffs, is going to look for that real cop, too, with the stick and the cuffs and the gun. I hope that there will never be any need to use weapons in carrying out municipal activity, but you, among other things, anticipated, look at it in a way. Not to read the whole article, not to waste time, but it's about helping to execute when, according to the assessment of the city's competent authority or authorised organisation, there are assumptions that the implementation of their executive decision will not be possible without the presence of the municipal police or the use of the means of coercion. What does it mean – there are assumptions? Who appreciates the existence of conjecture? You know that this is how we intervene every time we don't have precise and precise legal provisions. Wherever the law leaves a possibility, that someone can, that someone can assess, that someone assumes, it can't be a law that will be applied realistically and that will be the same for everyone and where all citizens will be the same before the law. For this member, I will return briefly to what my colleagues have said about the term of office. Imagine, you're giving cities the opportunity to determine the term of office. It's just amazing. Does this mean that for the same act, since I do not know what would be called what a municipal police officer would do, because you did not state it in law, it is not because it is not treated under the Law of Infringement, for the same violation of the municipal discipline in Belgrade and Loznica, the difference in the term of office will be five times, because you have said – let them, let them determine the mandates themselves. In the application of the mandate, we have almost changed the Law on Police, among other things, for the purpose of abolishing the punishment on the spot, because it is most susceptible to petty bribery, where citizens again come into the situation that the official authorities do not treat each citizen equally. So this, Mr. Minister, is not a good idea and it's not a good solution. You speak in article 16 about the type of authority of the municipal police, and you say - the municipal police can give a warning, then an oral order, there will really be someone to freak out, so they check their identity. What does this mean? Review of persons and objects, temporary confiscation of objects, video surveillance, use of means of coercion, physical forces, official sticks and binding agents. What does physical strength mean? So you're legally empowering a communal officer to use fists, fists, legs, hands, beats the man who put up there on a chart to sell something to survive in a place that's not meant for such a job. Face-to-face browsing. Well, how do you imagine, Mr. Minister, that this communal officer of yours examines an open-air face? What's he gonna do, take off his clothes, touch him? Somewhere out there, you said that the examination would be done by the same half as the face that's being examined. I just don't understand how you think, or he's gonna put him in his car, so he's gonna check him out there, if he's got a car? If he doesn't, will he be checking his face next to the counter? This is completely inapplicable, so I don't use any harsh expressions. When performing, in Article 21, the law of established tasks, a municipal police officer may conduct an examination of the person found in breach of the provisions of the departmental police, vehicles and objects which are close by. Again, he can, and what if he won't? On what basis does he estimate that he should or should not do so? It's not good, actually, a solution to Article 21 that explains this wider even more deeply cements the bad idea of this law. You're predicting in article 23 of the video surveillance. "When it is necessary to prevent violations of the rules of the municipal police section, a certain space and facility can be provided by video surveillance." Can you, Mr. Minister, tell us, on what grounds, if this law has not yet been passed and has not entered into force, a video surveillance has been placed in the underground passage of the Green Wreath? Of course, we don't mind being set up, but I want to tell you that that possibility already exists, you don't need a new law for that. You can already do that wherever you think there's a need for something like that, and it needs to be done, it's not controversial, but it can all be done without this law and without a communal officer with a stick and cuffs. The use of coercion funds is regulated by Article 24. According to the SRS, this can only be done by the police, which is in the jurisdiction of the police ministry, and it is only in accordance with the constitution. Mrs. Comic, I'm sorry, please, if there's only time, so I can concentrate, I don't see how much I'm talking. Control of the use of means of coercion. ''On the use of the means of coercion, the municipal police officer submits a written report to the commissioner of the municipal police, or to the person authorised to assess the justification and regularity of the use of the means of coercion. '"What does this mean? He's already applied the coercion, he's handcuffed someone, he's beating someone with a stick, and then he's informing, and then someone needs to assess whether it was or wasn't justified. I'm afraid it's a little late. ''In the event of unwarranted and incorrect use of the means of coercion, the chief of the municipal police shall take the necessary measures to determine disciplinary, criminal or criminal liability. ''Is he going to do or won't, and what's in it for him who got beat up, and he shouldn't have gotten it, and he got it from an unauthorized person, that's a special story, especially this last position, which says that the assessment in Article 1 of this article is given and the measures laid down in Article 3 are taken without delay, and no later than 15 days from the date of the report on the use of the coercion funds. This is an inappropriate deadline. If you're already doing this, then this is a really inappropriate deadline. ''The use of funds is being coerced by the Chief of Police to inform the competent police authority no later than 48 hours after the use of the means of coercion. '"When you're legally giving him the opportunity to use coercion, why is he informing the police department? Really, totally unnecessary. Identify yourselves, or, in accordance with the Constitution, you will do this by the police, or these communal officers of yours will do as they please. If the use of the means of coercion, still Article 28, there is a physical injury or death of the person, the chief of the municipal police shall file a written report to the competent police administration. ''So, what I was saying when you smiled when I said someone could beat up, I didn't want to be rude, so I could say kill, but you in article 28, you predicted that in performing the most ordinary communal activity, death could occur, and then, well, the police would get a written report about it. This is too much. Mr. Minister, you know we don't mind introducing as much order as possible, but you know how many people you've left out of work, how many people are selling at the gigs in the unauthorized places, and now you're going to send these people communal inspectors, so in article 28, you're predicting that there might be a death in their intervention. We don't think this is good at all. The conditions for performing business, having the psychophysical abilities necessary to carry out municipal police work, having passed a test for performing business and applying the authority of a municipal police officer, that is particularly interesting further in the process, that he is not sentenced to a sentence of at least six months, that he has not stopped his relationship earlier because of a serious breach of duty, etc. There must be some criteria, it's clear to me, since you've defined yourself, there must be some criteria, but today you have a communal inspection, communal directors, and they've all passed a state exam, a test for work in the authorities. You laid him down, and you laid him down, and I and all of us who worked in the government's organs passed that exam. Let's not remind ourselves now that all the objects are in place and what's important to these people. So, I don't see what a special exam is going to be, unless you're going to teach them how to hit people and how to cuff them. You've predicted here somewhere, I'm losing that member now, but it doesn't matter, I know the contents, that the minister will determine and recommend to doctors what psychophysical abilities are needed to do this job, and not the Minister of Health, but the Minister of State Administration and local self-government. That is truly amazing, Mr. Markovic. You as a minister will take responsibility to prescribe doctors how and what to examine to this man who will wear bats and handcuffs, to beat innocent people who commit some, say, violations in the field of communal activity?- I'm sorry. For example, today, we, quite accidentally, received a letter from Mr. Vojin Kršljanin from the Boulevard of the Krnjev Liberation near the Great Plan. He received a notice on the order for payment of an additional ticket for allegedly wrongly parked his car, the brown registration, not to read the registration number, and the man was neither in Belgrade nor in that place; the man has a "gear"; this is the registration number of that old iron that can only be driven by Krnjev. It is possible that, for example, there was a vehicle of Sombor registration, so the one there didn't see well, so he replaced it, but this man, of course, paid 1700 debt, so the cost of the reminder - 300 dinars, 2,000 dinars. Imagine that the guy who was doing it at the time was a communal cop, so there's no man at the car, so he can, this law lets him open the car, check the car, if he can't open it, maybe he can break it, so he can open it on the inside, see what he's got, if the car's parked in the wrong place. That's what this law allows. You're saying that a communal officer in the line of duty has official status and enjoys criminal protection prescribed by law. I'd just like you to tell us – which one? What law says - a municipal officer is considered an official who performs his duties and is protected by some law? So again, we have the same story that's been present for nine years, that one law, which should be in line with that, you say that, 'blood law', I don't know what that means, is consistent with the basic law. You first bring these, let me say, small laws and then, based on them, you bring, say, a criminal code. I suppose you thought the criminal code would regulate what you had provided for in article 44. A bill of this law. Mr. Minister, it's very interesting, I really don't know how you think these members are implemented from Articles 45 to 50 of the transitional and final provisions. I don't know if I'll have time to comment on everything. Tell me, please, how many minutes I have left. (President: eight minutes. Thank you. Thus, Article 50 states: "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and shall start to apply after the expiry of six months from the date of entry into force, except for an article. 45, 46 and 47 which shall apply from the date of entry into force of this law.’; Mr. Minister, a member of the 45th says it's from an article. 30, 32 and 35 shall be brought by the minister responsible for local self-government, within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, and by the other, as referred to in Article 30, 32 and 35. In 39 and 41, the city’s congregation will bring in the same time. And this might fit in if you really do it within three months, so this member applies. But Article 46 says that the acts on education and internal arrangement of the municipal police, in accordance with this law, will bring cities within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. I guess they'll wait for these acts to come out of the article. 41st and 39th, and then they'll bring in an act of internal order. We come to Article 47: "The examination committee referred to in Article 35(1) of this Law, the minister responsible for local self-government", and you educate this yourself, however, you are a genius, "will be educated within six months of the date of entry into force of this law". Here, one part of the deal ends within three months, then here within six months, and they're connected to each other, so now I don't know what's the right time, and the employees of the municipal police are required to take the test to carry out the job and apply the authority of the municipal police officer no later than one year from the date of the adoption of the regulations laid down in Article 35(2) of this law. How does that fit your deadline, Mr. Minister, given these previous, three months, six months for bringing these acts? I tried to add, subtract, I never saw how this job could end within the deadline of Article 50, because you said this law was applied after the end, now I'm ignoring the members of 45, 46 and 47, which you've excluded, but the law, therefore, is fully applied at the end of six months from the date of entry into force. How will it apply within six months, if this one plans to be a municipal police officer within one year of the date of entry into force of the law, or the adoption of these regulations? That's the year and three months, or years and six months, he only passed the exam. What will happen in this time of year and a half? You need that period to get this person to pass that exam and to be able to do that job. This is really amazing. Does this mean that for a year, utility directors and communal inspectors will be doing community police work, perhaps in uniform, with and without handcuffs, with and without sticks? That really can't be explained. The city council, on a proposal from the head of the municipal police, will bring the first strategic plan of the municipal police no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law. What does this mean now – a strategic plan, within two years? Why does this article take effect on the day of its publication in the “Official Messenger, ” and it starts to apply after six months? I don't know if you notice, Mr. Minister, that these members are in absolute collegiation? You may have imagined all this to be so, but this, if it's going to be in accordance with this law, the bad law, it can't simply be possible to apply these provisions and it won't be possible to comply with this law. We are confident that there will be no application of this law, that in the meantime you will realize that you are not ready, as a minister and as a lawyer, to stand behind a law that does not have a foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is likely that every law must have a foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, you're here, I've already told you, I've listed some members who have nothing to do with it, but you've drawn attention to the fact that you're speaking at the same time about the department for the legal regulation of the municipal police, that it's in agreement with Article 190 point 1. The Constitution. I really need to read it for the public. Item 1 of Article 190. The constitution says that the municipality, through its authorities, in accordance with the law, regulates and provides for the implementation and development of municipal activities. Where does it say there's a cop? It doesn't say. There's got to be, there's got to be some other police out there besides the department of the interior. You could have told me about the municipal gendarmes, the communal sy. It also doesn't say in the Constitution strictly, but you could have said it. You say, therefore, that it is governed by law. "It regulates and provides for the implementation and development of municipal activity." At the same time, this authority is not contrary to the constitutional law of the cities and the city of Belgrade to the self-editation of its bodies, nor to the same law laid down in paragraph 6. European Charter of Local Self-Government, 1985. We have talked, some colleagues have also cariced 'local sheriffs' etc., but I am very serious about this law, as sometimes as it seems to you that it is not, it may be harmonised, it is, in fact, in line with that charter, but the problem of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the problem is circumstances in which, possibly, this law would apply, the problem is a huge number of citizens who have lost their jobs and every month remains 10,000 citizens without a job. You, Ministers, were present today, so the newspapers announced to the first electronic session of the government. It's nice that we follow modern technology... (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. Here, let me finish the sentence. So, it's nice that we follow all these modern trends, but it would be good for the government to be aware that it rules the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22097	Thank you. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22098	Thank you. I've listened very carefully to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Radeta, as well as the other exhibits, and I think we can, however, clear some things up. The constitutionality, the unconstitutionalness, may, in the end, be declared by the Constitutional Court, but I think it's quite a good basis if we say it provides municipal action. The Constitution doesn't say that there are communal monks, so there are, it doesn't say that there are municipal inspectors, so there are. These are all different instruments that ensure the execution of municipal activity. It's undeniable to me, but there's an institution that can make a statement if you think that's the case. First, to be clear, we have an obligation to pass this law by the Law on Local Self-Government. There's no doubt that we had to pass the law on the municipal police, however, we had to bring it in early, but there were elections and deadlines we couldn't fully comply with. One unit of local self-government, in this context, should be viewed as unchangeable, as a constant. The size of the budget of the city of Belgrade or any city in Serbia, any municipality, depends on the Law on the financing of local self-government. That law defines the sources of funding. Part of these sources are transfers from the budget, but, generally, it has nothing to do with whether 100 people or 200 people will be employed in the municipality. It's a constant. Like, say, that's 100 dinars. Since the municipality, that is, the city, is going to distribute these 100 dinars, whether the city is going to divide most of those 100 dinars for wages, which is a disaster, but many of them are doing it, unfortunately, or the city of those 100 dinars, I've already explained, we have examples of where only 10% and less goes to management, and we have examples of where up to 60% goes, that's local politics, these are some challenges of local self-government. We agreed to it as a state, that's right. The Republic can't determine how someone will spend their budget; then we don't have local self-government and decentralisation, but we have centralised. Who's a lot? If it's too much for Jagodina to have 12 communal cops, then let her have six. If it's a lot of six, let's have one. There's no dispute here. If Belgrade has a lot to do with 358, and thinks it's a burden on its budget, let Belgrade make 50, make 30 municipal police officers. It's a matter of budget. This doesn't burden the Republic budget. Belgrade will have X money, had municipal police or had no municipal police, and as money will distribute, it is a matter of Belgrade itself. The Republic budget really does not suffer any burden by introducing the municipal police, it is suffered by local budgets. There is also another side of the medal, not the other side of the medal, but the use of this same side of the medal, should be said – the municipal police are the instrument of filling the budget precisely through the introduction of more order, the introduction of some penalties that people do not pay for different forms of behavior. Imagine what's going on? It happens that construction firms are not bound at this point, not by any regulation, to report where they carry the shot, they get approval for construction. I guess it'll be in the new planning and construction law. In order to avoid the cost of taking a shot to the right place, most often to pay a certain fee, if it is managed by someone, an organization, it happens to us that, they count – it's cheaper, they hit the first corner, etc. Direct loss, at the very least, to the local self-government unit. A lot of people around here said we already have communal directors. We have them, we have communal inspectors, but every mayor has said one thing to me – there's not enough efficiency through the service of communal directors, there's not enough authority, there's no possibility that a communal director really solves some serious problems that exist. One is a communal officer; the face of a civilian comes out, comes up to the people, says, "Give your ID card, the man says, "I won't give you your ID card, turn around and go away." It's just that he doesn't have that capacity. That's one thing. The other thing is when a uniform face appears, which is an official person, who enjoys criminal and legal protection. I'll explain that later, since you asked that question. Then it is a completely different situation – 99% of the citizens of this country, when an officially unbalanced person appears and says – please your ID card, to write an application, to do anything about its work, none of us turn, go or hit the one who approaches it. That makes one percent of the wrongdoers, and that's what they do. Everyone else reacts perfectly normal. Unfortunately, it's not like that when a communal director shows up. Therefore, the municipal police officer will be a strong instrument in implementing the city's policies, i.e. the local self-government unit. It is, in fact, an essential function – an instrument to implement the city's policy, to solve these municipal problems. As for the term "people," which you mentioned, it's a language question, somewhat a matter of writing technique itself, it's a term that exists in the Police Act. That's the only reason we took over the word "people" instead of the word "structure." We think it's appropriate, given that it's one service that has partly police features, so we thought the term "people" was adequate and in line with the Police Act. At the very least, you will see that in our law we are largely referring to the Police Act. The reason for calling on the Police Act is that certain police powers are being applied here, and in order not to be applied differently, the easiest thing to do was to refer to the application of the Police Act, because I think these laws have been well balanced all these years, that it is well known what it means to apply police powers under that law. You're saying it's amazing that cities now determine different mandates. Cities today determine different criminal penalties. So there are regulations that bring cities, municipalities, however, units of local self-government; they have the right to lay down regulations. They make regulations about keeping, say, domestic animals. The city of Belgrade has its city's decision to keep animals, probably Jagodina does. Now, let the city prescribe the height of punishment as a violation, with it moving within the limits provided for by the Law of Infractions, but that's what the city does, no one else does it but the city. Whether they're going to prescribe 1,000 dinars in Jagodina, and this one's going to prescribe 2,000 dinars, well, there's no question about it now, that's the point. We're not going to force our local self-governments to be unbalanced, but we're going to let them be different in some of their segments. That's how it is now, and that's the concept of decentralisation. People have chosen them, they are their councilmen, if they think that walking a dog without a leash takes a penalty to be one dinar, it will be one dinar; of course, I'm exaggerating, but I guess -- 100 dinars, 200, I don't know how much minimum is prescribed by the Law of Infractions. You said physical strength, and then you commented. It is in Article 24 — the physical strength and official staff of a municipal police officer can only be used if he or she cannot refuse a simultaneous counter-attack in other ways. The Institute is known, in the end, as "necessary defense" and rests on refusing a simultaneous counter-attack. I don't think there should be any dispute between us, otherwise there's no dispute between us. Everything a municipal police officer does, I'm talking about these police powers, it works in accordance with the regulations that regulate police work, and we wrote it. The powers of the municipal police laid down by the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, From 17th to 24th of this law are applied under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on Police and Sublaws on Police Authorities, in the manner of police affairs; as the police officer searched, as he searched for the last 60 years, so the search and the municipal police officer. Since an ordinary cop doesn't take people off on the street, by the logic of things, this communal cop won't take people off on the street. There's no need to be afraid there'll be problems. How does he estimate that an examination should be carried out? Well, that's what you and I both know, since we both worked in the administration, like when we're looking for police assistance, you remember the House Bill, Article 5, the known law, as local self-government, we're in charge of carrying out this, or in Belgrade, city council, to assess. This is where they tell us, our perpetrators tell us, there will be, please, trouble, call for assistance from the police. It is now a matter of concrete practice, coordination of work and evaluation. We're probably doing this job, all of us. Let's figure out where the problem is. Video surveillance, I agree, exists now. Many place video surveillance on different grounds. We're listed as one of the possibilities for the municipal police to do this. It's also in line with the Law on Police, they're also setting up video surveillance. I agree with you, maybe it's unnecessary to add, but without that, it's fine. I don't think it's too crazy if it says "video-supervise" right now, it's no big deal. Mrs Radeta did not talk about it, but we heard it here, I am sorry, Mrs Tabaković – and it was funny, and it was terrible, and it was startled, but this exposure was more politically, unlike this professional level. This rescue function, it's one perfectly logical and normal thing; well, when he sees a child drowning, it's his obligation to jump and save a child. No, he'll be waiting for a lifeguard. He's an authorized official, he's got some stuff to do. He's here unbalanced, he's got special government obligations. Look at the fire, he's gonna jump and shut it down, not wait for a fire brigade to come or he won't. An ordinary inspector has no such obligations, you can't ask an ordinary officer to do that unless he has an obligation. As citizens, we have certain obligations, but there are no obligations of this kind, where he is obliged to risk, in the end, perhaps some kind of injury or something. He's obliged to perform a rescue function, as is the duty of a regular police officer. In a description of the work of the regular police, it is regular, so the discovery and prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes in them, public order and peace, and here is the communal order. It doesn't say anything about each other in the job description – a rescue function. Both are obliged to perform a rescue function, and rescue and emergency intervention. A member where we have stated that the municipal police are obliged to report in writing if serious physical injuries occur and, God forbid, death. Far from having these powers so that, as you've seen, I can use the bat and the physical force; only when it's a simultaneous counter-attack. You know how, God forbid, it can happen, it happens, people get excited, heart attack, whatever happens. Since it's in police regulations, we considered it appropriate to send a detailed description of all this to the police. This does not exclude regular proceedings, when an investigative judge comes out, comes a doctor, determines that death occurred, comes an investigative judge, initiates an appropriate procedure, a criminal, whatever it takes. Nothing excludes that, but along the way, a description of the conduct of this to the regular police, because, otherwise, it was the application of the rules of the regular police section. That's the only reason, there's no other reason for that. It was a dispute in the discussion of the determination of psychophysical ability. I'm not saying I couldn't write how to determine, yet I didn't give that authority to myself. In this article, he writes literally like this – the minister responsible for local self-government makes rules on how to identify the necessary psychophysical abilities and empowers a health institution to determine this ability and issue medical assurances about it. Far from me betraying a doctor's conviction, to assess anyone's psychophysical ability, but we're determining a way. This will be done by means of a sublegal act, probably in the same way as it was found for police officers. It also includes institutions, it is known which are the official state institutions that do so. It's probably going to be put in a sublegal act. I'm certainly not, as a minister, nor is it any minister who will assess whether anyone is psychophysically healthy. We're not in charge of doing this. Criminal and legal protection is, in my opinion, very important. You asked, how do we predict it now? They just wrote that a municipal officer in his official duties has official status and enjoys the criminal-legal protection prescribed by law. Criminal code prescribes criminal and legal protection of officials. There is a member who speaks of criminal and legal protection of officials – who is an official, etc., in the course of official duty, will be punished, so you know what. That's what it's about. We just gave him that status, included him in a circle of faces protected by the Criminal Code. Our people are like that, and I'm coming from myself and everyone here. These people are going to mean a lot to me. You don't think this is gonna work, I'm sure it will, and it'll be very useful. I never thought of calling, stopping a traffic cop, any question, not giving an answer to his oral order. There were questions – what is the oral order? The oral command is – get out of the place, stop the work. These are oral orders that go according to the law of the police and are thus implemented. Unlike the situation we've now had with communal directors and communal inspectors, where they didn't have that authority, that's true, these city municipalities get an effective instrument, so these people can implement what's municipal policy. It read here what Mr. Alimpic was saying. Belgrade thought it was necessary and more, I don't think it should, I think this is enough. Every man in this country, except for those who don't listen to anyone, will obey the order, the application, the request of a communal officer, because it's an authorized official, who has certain police powers, which are unbalanced, behind whom the state stands and whose state has provided criminal and legal protection. That's why I really believe in this law. I am fully prepared to bear any kind of responsibility for the success of this law and stand behind this. The moment we wrote the Law on Local Self-Government, I had an idea to do this law. I'm standing behind him. Eight months of synchronization. I'm not saying that I'm satisfied with every solution, but I think some smarter people in this area, who are more involved, know why something needs to be done right. As the former president of the municipality, I believe that this will be of great benefit to our fellow mayors, and that citizens themselves will feel safer and better. You see, you as mayor, tomorrow, Commissioner of the Police, issue a certain instruction, suggest, you have these school meetings, choirs; nothing harms to have five police officers showing up here, to keep a small account. It's all going to happen. Life will make this law much bigger than he is, like this only on paper. Thank you, anyway, for your discussion. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22099	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. People's MPs Verica Radeta and Jorvanka Tabakovic applied for a word by the law of replication. You do not have the right to reply, since nothing has been said in any presentation that would allow you to apply a member of the Rules of Procedure who gives the chairman the opportunity to give you a word for the replica. There are no sign-ins on the list of parliamentary groups. Before concluding a principled search, I ask, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? National MP Zlata Djeric. The time available, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22100	I'm really going to try to make the most of my time. Simply, much has been said and is not directed into such tiny or large hours to repeat any of what colleagues have said. Through all of this, a few conclusions have been imposed. First of all, one of the colleagues said that the city authorities wanted this law, and I would add to that, they might want it, but they don't want it for citizens. The government said the first burden of the crisis would be borne by the government. Not true, the first and biggest burden of the crisis will be borne by citizens. I think only citizens will bear the burden of this crisis and the introduction of a double service of this guy will surely burden them, no matter what level they pay. That's what they'll pay for anyway. With the police, the fire department and the inspections that have so far had the authority to do these jobs, we're introducing a double service, but the minister said he believes in this law, and time will show what is right and what is not. I have a question that came to me right now, about education. First of all, I'm interested in the criteria for the employment of municipal police officers. It says here that it's enough to have four years of professional training. In my town of Somboru, where by the number of residents we should have 20 municipal officers, when the competition is called, at this point I can tell you at least 400 names of the people who will report to this competition and who meet these conditions. You'll have to choose 20. I wonder how you'll choose them. Furthermore, when they enter and start doing that job, in the meantime they will do everything in their jurisdiction, very serious tasks. After a year, he'll be in the process of passing his exams. What happens if one of them doesn't pass the exam? Who's gonna be responsible for that? Of course, they were getting paid. If they're going to lose their jobs, that's no longer the problem. So one such serious service, with such serious powers, must have a man who meets all the conditions to exercise those powers. About, just to compare it, or to say more vividly, when you're training to pass a driver's test for an ordinary B category, no matter how much training you're in, no matter how skillful you know, how satisfied your instructor or auto-school is, you can't spend any minutes in traffic, at the wheel, until you've been officially issued your driver's license, and that's the day it's been issued. So it's only that moment that you can drive a car as a driver. It's the same thing, doing communal police work. We expect people who are elected, firstly, to place it, that would be logical and expected, as is the case in the police, as is the case in other services. It means, first, to lay down, to qualify for their educational profile, no matter how short they are, but to qualify and then to be accepted on the basis of those qualifications for the job. Wasn't there any thought on the subject, that in existing schools trained by police officers, a department for municipal police officers was opened? We know how many children are interested in it, even some directions take a little longer, but it would significantly resolve this particular dilemma and these problems that will arise from these powers, the periods when they exercise jurisdiction and powers for which they receive pay and the moment they pass the job exam. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22101	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22102	The time for a representative or president of a parliamentary group is 20 minutes, but regardless of the impropriety of the current chairman, who did not want to give me the word based on the replica, I will not use it all the time, just as long as it takes for Mr. Secretary to say three sentences. First, it is not correct to make all the remarks, and none of them were political, but essential, you choose Article 5 and defend yourself against what you are not opposed to, speaking of the position of the 2nd member and the job of the rescue teams or of the rescuer's business. Not only a municipal officer, but any citizen in such a situation would save, for example, a drowned man, but provided he knew how to swim. But it wasn't an observation at all, which just proves how carefully you listened. The objection was to the position of the 1st member, where no measures were specified when they could not be taken in due time by the competent authority. In what procedure and in what way have you prescribed that this competent authority should be notified? That's just how much you respect us here while we're making remarks. I'm not here for you to give me an assessment of whether the speech was political or any other nature, that assessment of both you and I should be left to the citizens. I know that this hall is beautifully done, that it's a very interesting environment and I have the impression that you were more interested in the environment than in the observations. If you hadn't commented in this way on the very studio preparation and well-meaning of the objection to this law, I wouldn't have told you this either, but you deserve me to tell you that you didn't listen to the remarks of the MPs. This will not change the well-meaning of the Forward Serbia Parliament Club. We will try to explain again the reasons why this law is not good enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22103	The word has been made by MP Momo Colakovic, representative of the PUPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22104	I'd like the chairman to tell me how much time I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22105	As a representative of the Parliamentary Group, you have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22106	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable MPs, I had no intention of speaking about this point, but given that some MPs speak all the time and repeat the things they have said, I suppose the PUPS Group also has the right to their 20 minutes and those six minutes as a parliamentary group. But we're not gonna use that time. I'm just saying that despite all the remarks, the minister has convinced me to say on behalf of the Parliament Group that we will support this law and that in the voting day we will give our vote to adopt and to apply in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22107	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22108	I know it's late, but it doesn't come out without an answer. Ms Tabakovic says that Article 5 says – the municipal police are taking urgent measures to protect the environment, protect against natural and other disasters, protect against fires and other protection from the city's jurisdiction, when these measures cannot be taken in due time by other competent authorities and authorised organisations, which is immediately notified by those authorities or organisations. Mrs Tabakovic asks me – in what procedure? It's not an administrative procedure, it's not a criminal, it's not a litigation, it's a procedure – it takes a cell phone, it presses, if it can't, a colleague runs to the radio, if there's no radio connection, he'll go to the first phone. It's his to tell you about such an urgent matter. So that's how I see this thing, me and us, who made the law. There is no law prescribed special procedure to resolve how they will inform that there is a fire. It's a procedure. Col. Djeric asked a question, she came out, but I'll answer. So, as far as the criteria are concerned, by which some commission in the municipality, in the city, is going to make a choice of candidates, I really don't know. Nobody here knows that. We all know they're doing it, mostly, right. What's important to say, I forgot that, who doesn't pass the exam, he can't do it, because he's supposed to have a kind of practice here, and then he takes the exam; without passing the exams, he can't do the communal officer's job on his own. So, before passing the exam, the person does not perform the work of a communal officer on his own, it goes accompanied by another municipal officer. It is important to point out because there were questions at the beginning of the discussion – what if one uses a pendrek or something? He can't use anything, nor can he perform his own activities without who's licensed, or who passed the exam. That's why you don't have to identify it by driving a car. In the police department, from the start, a police officer doesn't carry out his own work. I think a year or two days he's only been working with whoever's already passed the exam, etc. There's a difference here. I hope so, and I think I've convinced the MPs to uphold this law. We're going to try to further clarify any doubt in the debate on amendments, but I expect a lot of this law, most sincerely, to look forward to establishing a communal police force and I hope that you will be satisfied, that your negative forecasts will not come true. This can be a great thing, this can change the power and ability of local self-government to carry out their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-11-0.u22109	I'm finishing the initial search. For today, we finish our work and continue tomorrow, June 12th, at 10 p.m., by discussing the principle of the draft law on the electronic document. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 100 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sitting: Prof. Dr. Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, Dr. Nikola Krpić, Mladen Grujic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Nikola Lazic, and that the delay at the session was announced by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Perić and Sinisa Stamenković. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, and Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Assistant Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for an ELECTRON DOCUMENT Law (principle) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement in the principle debate, with a number of MPs. I also inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Dejan Radenkovic – MEP Group SPS-JS, MP Miroslav Petkovic – Parliament Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Pavel Marchok – MEP Group of ZES and National MP Vladan Jeremic – SRS Group of MPs. In accordance with Article 142(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
