ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30341	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Dear People's MPs, as you know, yesterday, November 15th, 2009, at 10.45 p.m., at VMA, His Holiness the Patriarch of the Serbian Pavle passed away. Orthodox believers and citizens of Serbia have deeply received news of the retirement of their greatest priest. His wise words, kindness, endurance, and nobility remain in the memory of the entire Orthodox world. The departure of Patriarch Paul is an irreparable loss for Serbia and its citizens. Dear People's MPs, feeling in the pain of our citizens, I suggest that on the day of the funeral of Patriarch Paul's Holiness, on Thursday 19 November 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not in the plenary session. I call upon you to pay our respects to our esteemed patriarch, Paul. A minute of silence. May it be eternal glory, and thank you. We'll be working on it in 30 minutes. [[After break – 10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Dejan Radenkovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Đuro Peric, Miletic Mihajlović, Petar Petrovic, Elvira Kovac and Milica Radovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Mr Mladjan Dinkić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Science and Technology Development, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Petar Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, Snezana Samardžić-Marković, Minister of Youth and Sport, and Sulejmank Resources of Ugljanović, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Petr Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, Snezana Samark, State Secretary of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Marjanović, Renat Pinđo and Ljiljan Juver, Assistants of Economy and Regional Development, Gordana Arsić and Goran Petković, Assistant Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy and Minister of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Mr. Viktor Nedovan Marjanović, Assistant of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, Mr. We move to the 31st point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK (VEHICLE ELECTRO MOTORAL GARNITURE) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN GENERATION BANK (the joint single search on points 31 to 56) By the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Mr Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I appeal to article 86, and I ask the question, since we are quite often in a situation like we were ten minutes ago, that we were unable to begin work. The second view says: "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, in the sitting room, at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session is postponed by one hour." Now I ask you a question -- what time is it, how do we know how long it takes to wait for the ruling majority to be picked up? It's already become a practice. Is that ten minutes, 15 minutes, half an hour, an hour, two hours? Tell us, because like this, no doubt, you abuse the chair. We here want to work, and we can't because you can't provide most. This really crosses every possible limit. That's right with committees, that's right with the Assembly. How long do you think you're acting like this? Tell me that we know what time it is that you will tolerate until the moment you ask MPs to identify, or to insert their cards, because this really doesn't make sense. I'm asking for an answer from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30344	The only person who violates the Rules of Procedure is the MPs who sit in the hall and not insert their cards, the existing Rules of Procedure. As for the time to wait, it is not foreseen by this Rules of Procedure, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you are not satisfied with my answer, we can make a statement in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30345	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. Article 85: “Sessions of the National Assembly under discussion... They shall be held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, between 10 and 18 hours, with an end of one hour." Please, Mrs. Dejanovic, explain to me, regardless of this break we had, where it says in the Rules of Procedure that before the beginning of the session, we are waiting for the quorum. Where does it say, how do you interpret it? What is this time when you will require MPs to be identified? Mrs. Dejanovic, we do not violate the Rules of Procedure, it is our right to identify ourselves or not. I will remind you now, but take a stenogram, you or Mrs. Komic, I cannot now argue, once there was no quorum when it suits you, it seems to me that it was Mrs. Komic, she said that it was a political position whether someone would insert the card or not, and that it was the right of MPs. I couldn't agree more. You know what the problem is? What you take from yourself, you don't give to others, and it has already become a practice in this assembly of the National Assembly, that there are MPs of the first and MPs of the second order. You demonstrate it all the time. However, there are limits that can be tolerated. I am not saying this because of you, I know that you will continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, because you are engaged, or you are acting in political usefulness, what you think is useful, and you are doing, and you are absolutely not interested in the Rules of Procedure, or anything, because you are interested in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Dejanovic, we should, for example, have, on the agenda a resolution of 108 MPs related to Kosovo and Metohija. You knowingly broke the Rules of Procedure, you didn't put it on the agenda, and if you put it on the agenda, there wouldn't be Eulexa, there wouldn't be these Shipage elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and you wouldn't bring the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija in a position to have new divisions. But you don't care. You are interested in taking advantage of this authority to the extreme, both for party and for personal purposes, and that is the problem Serbia and the citizens of Serbia face.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30346	Mr Todorovic, I will remind you and all MPs of article 122, which says MPs are obliged to use their identification cards, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall. Therefore, they are required to be identified when entering the O.R., by inserting cards into the MP's unit, or by checking out when leaving the O.R. Therefore, you do not respect Article 122, Article 1st. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I ask that in the day for the vote, the Assembly be heard about this. Please provide me with an answer in writing to the question when the chairman begins the session. ) In the day of voting, the Assembly will declare itself. I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 163(3) and in accordance with Article 94, that, pursuant to Article 163(3), the Joint Single Search for acts referred to in the agenda on points 31 to 56 prior to the opening of the search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and this is the MEP's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so so far, to file a statement with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: Aleksandra Jankovic, the New Serbia MP group, Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS MP group Milos Radulovic, the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica's MP group, Dejan Mirovic, the SRS MP group, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, the Prosperity Group Advanced Serbia, Judita Popovic, the LDP parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 152(2), and in accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (Trains – Multi-Part Electro-Modal garnitures) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Protection of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Improvement of the Power Network of Serbia), Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of Serbia on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia concerning the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union, the European Economic Affairs and the European Union, Proposal on the European Economic Affairs and the European Economic Affairs, Proposal for the European Parliament and Council and Council, and the European Parliament, and Council, and the European Parliament, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, and the European Parliament, and the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? I'm sorry, first of all, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Tomislav Nikolic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30347	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I'll try to explain it to you in these two minutes. Yesterday, we Serbs lost our Orthodox faiths without a patriarch, without a living saint, the sky is looking forward to yesterday, and we are left with our sorrows, including the trivial ones, which the government is using in that day to make us sadder. Those of you who expect us to create 84 parliamentary votes for you to begin a session of the National Assembly, and you are leading the state, you even annulled some of the assets of the French bourgeois revolution on which the modern world is based. We lost the patriarch, and we got a bishop named Boris Tadic, who sat in the session of St. Sinod yesterday and joined the Dnevnik directly to tell us what they were solving there. What's your mistake? This congregation did not have the strength to pay the last tribute to His holiness, which rested in the Lord. You're the one who got into the hiduck's room, you didn't open the session. You're with a group of MPs who were here, held a minute of silence, or whatever you called it, and got out of the O.R. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the Assembly did not officially honor His Holiness because it did not even begin the session, because you did not determine whether there was a quorum, because the Assembly is not working until it is determined that it has the conditions to start working. When the congregation begins to work, it does all that is both honor and obligation and right and duty. So you're out of the O.R. I don't know what reason you got out of the O.R. You thought that someone from the opposition would cause a problem when the unbaptized ones here honor the last person who taught us what you would never understand, which is calmness, honesty, honesty. So, Mrs. Djukic, you can do whatever you want in the future, while you're running this national assembly, but what happened this morning, thus fulfilling the desire of these "yellows" to use someone's death to run their campaign, it will remain recorded...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30348	Time. Mr. Nikolic, I opened a session this morning, and nobility...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30349	How did you open the session? How did you open the session without a quorum?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30350	... Your patriarch won't let me say anything on this subject. I think you've crossed every line of decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30351	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30352	Ostojić Zoran has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30353	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, I think he is a injured member of 104, and not because of the mention of the non-baptism in this assembly, but because of the fact that you have read the points of the agenda of the united debate for four minutes. The LDP parliamentary group has 14 minutes and 20 seconds to discuss 26 points of the agenda. When divided, it's at the point of the agenda for 33 seconds. This congregation may boast of the number of laws passed, but we think that what we do here is not only the number of laws passed, but also the quality of those laws. Please do not in future combine this number of agenda points, because it goes to the heart of the discussion and the quality of the law. Think about the fact that 26 points of the agenda are placed as one and that some MP groups have less time than we do, at 30 seconds. Indeed, we can talk that we are for Europe, now everyone is for Europe, both crosses and unbaptized and others, but the fact is that we need to take our business more seriously. After all, the financing of European businesses will only lead to Serbian citizens not believing in the improvement that European integration brings to Serbia. Please don't let this happen again, that 26 points be united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30354	Mr. Ostojic, the assembly has declared itself to be a unit of dots. Today there was no statement, even if the Rules of Procedure had been injured, was not injured on that occasion, it happened a few days ago. According to my assessment, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you are not satisfied with this response, the Assembly may declare itself in the voting day. (No) I thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30355	You have this advantage that you can say anything you want and that no one can finally tell you what they think about what you said. Tell me that I have crossed the line when I speak of His Holiness, whom I respect as my father, that you who before him had Titus, then Slobodan Milosevic, then His Holiness, and I always have His Holiness. The fact that you are in power, gentlemen of the DS, does not give you the right to take advantage of the difficult times in which Serbia is today. I had no intention of offending anyone, only to make my point, as a believer of the SPC, that I was very uncomfortable when you use every moment, and even yesterday, for the advertising campaign of your political parties. Yesterday, it passed in showing the power of the president of Serbia, which could not have been avoided by honorable bishops; they had to put up with it in their vicinity, although it was known that none of us were there at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30356	Mr. Nikolic, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, your relationship with your ideals is known to Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30357	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, since I assume that most MPs are well aware of all the elements of the proposed laws, because of their importance, for the sake of transparency and the public, I wanted to make certain details in the introduction of this debate. First, what is known, the constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws is contained in Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides for its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations, and in Article 99(1) of point 4) of the Constitution, under which the National Assembly confirms international contracts when the law provides for the obligation of their validation. On the occasion of the first point of today's united agenda, this is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement for vehicles – a multi-part electric furniture, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is appropriate to say that the Guarantee Treaty was signed in Belgrade on 8 May 2009, and the loan agreement (cars – multi-part electric furniture) between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Public Enterprise "Train of Serbia" was signed in Belgrade on 8 May 2009. The reasons for the adoption of the law are the fact that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ready to grant a 100m-euro loan for the procurement project of vehicles, electric furniture, provided that the Republic of Serbia guarantees the commitments of the JP "Trains of Serbia", as a borrower under the loan agreement. It is instructed to add that the issue of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to a 100m-euro loan is provided for in Article 3. Law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of this is that JP "The Railways of Serbia" plans to implement the project of procurement of vehicles to improve the organisation of regional and passenger traffic, and the basic routes in the development of regional traffic are planned on the electrified lines of Belgrade – Subotica, Belgrade – Šid, Belgrade – Nis, Belgrade – Presevo, Belgrade – Prijepolje and Belgrade – Pozarec, as well as on the lines on which electrification is planned in the coming period, such as Požega – Kraljevo, Belgrade – Lapovo – Kraljevo, Nis – Dimitrovgrad and Pančevo – Vršac. A little further on the terms. The subject of the project is to purchase up to 30 multi-part electric sets. The duration of the loan is 15 years, including four years. Loan payments would take place in 22 semi-annual wars, with payment dates on 8 March and 8 September. The deadline for entry into force shall be 120 days from the date of signature of the contract. Under the law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank to improve the JP power grid "Electro Network Serbia", the Treaty was signed in Belgrade on June 12th 2009. The reason for the adoption of this confirmation law is that the EIB is ready to grant a loan of 24mm and 500 000 euros for the project to improve the electricity network, provided that the Republic of Serbia guarantees the commitments of the JP "Electro Network of Serbia", as a borrower under the financing contract. The aim is to implement a project to improve the network of electricity for rehabilitation or construction of six trafostations, as well as to build accompanying power lines in the area of the following cities and municipalities: Belgrade, Bistrica, Vranje, Kruševac, Smederevo and Srbobran. It is important to say that the access fee is not paid. Employment costs are not paid. The duration of the loan is 20 years, including a period of five years. The loan is half-yearly. The borrower may repay the loan in one war, at the end of the three-year period from the scheduled date of the tranche payment. The minimum amount of tranche is 4m euros. The last date for the payment request is 31 December 2012. Under the Law on Confirmation of an agreement between the RS and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of the "Small and Medium Business Assistance Programme through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility" programme, this agreement was signed on 18 October 2004, and ratified on 17 November 2005. However, since the government of Italy's 33.25m-euro loan was fully used, the Italian Embassy sent a request for a second loan and this is the second credit for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Conditions are favourable. The duration period is 13 years. The payment deadline is seven years, and the period begins six years. The interest rate is 0.35% a year. An individual procurement contract signed for Serbia's small and medium-sized enterprises cannot be completed at more than 1m euros or less than 50,000 euros. Another advantage with regard to this law is that when lending to small and medium-sized enterprises and public utility companies by domestic banks will be applied an interest rate which must not exceed 4,85% per year for the euro loan. We have a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank which regulates the EIB's activities in the Republic of Serbia. The agreement is indicative and concluded on 11 May 2009. It is also interesting to propose a law on the confirmation of the Amending Statute of the IMF. In fact, the IMF implements a comprehensive strategy to adapt its activities to changes in the world economy. The key element of the Strategy concerns the reform of the quotas and voting forces of the Member States, as well as the establishment of a new model of sustainable and long-term financing. The implementation of these elements of the Strategy requires the amendment of certain provisions of the Statute of the IMF, and the Board of Governors adopted a proposal to amend the Statute, in order to strengthen the voting force and the way in which Member States are represented under Resolution 63-2. What is interesting for our country will increase the basic votes from 250 to 750, which will increase the voter participation of low-income countries and provide a constant share of the basic votes in the overall voting force. In addition to the basic votes, the member has one vote at a time on each part of the 100,000 special draw rights quota. Then we have a law confirming the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation with Spain. Like similar contracts, we have here with Denmark, what is important, is that the Treaty provides a positive fact of tax relief to stimulate the investment of residents of one state contracting country in another country contract and concrete assistance, i.e. the benefit of our country. It is an example of ensuring that income that Serbian air carriers, for example, achieve in international traffic in the Kingdom of Spain or Denmark, is not subject to taxation in the country, but in Serbia. These contracts also provide for the co-operation of the tax administrations of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain or Denmark in order to effectively implement the Treaty and prevent tax ejaculation by their residents. It is unnecessary to mention in particular how such contracts contribute to strengthening mutual economic co-operation. We also have a proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Sweden on general provisions and conditions for development co-operation. The Kingdom of Sweden has significantly helped the development and stabilisation of the economic system in the RS so far, and the total value of the financial support of the Kingdom of Sweden's government to Serbia amounted to around 140m euros in grants. The structure of this development aid is dominated by technical assistance, which in the previous period was focused on areas of agriculture, civil society development, energy, transport, environmental protection, justice, private sector and state administration. In the perspective, the main objective of developing co-operation between the RS and the Kingdom of Sweden is to support the reform processes of European integration and, above all, to direct development aid to support the processes of strengthening the central institutions of the RS government. It is similar with Slovakia, a framework agreement on development co-operation between our government and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia. The total amount of appropriations is approximately 12m euros. In its donor policy, the Slovak Republic potentials a number of areas in which it has certain potentials and has relative advantages compared to other donor countries. So far, six donor cycles for RS have supported projects in the field of environmental protection, health and social protection, transport, improvement of local infrastructure, as well as transfer of experiences and support for RS integration processes through the training of state administrations. As regards the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on general provisions and conditions of development co-operation, it is similar to the previous two. I would just point out that Austria, on an annual basis, is committed to RS through donations, an average of around 2m euros, and in the perspective, the development co-operation programme of the Republic of Austria will focus specifically on the regional development segment in Serbia, as well as on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the basis of the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Belarus, the Agreement provides for the mutual suspension of customs duties and other duties for all products covered by the customs tariff, except for several products for which customs duties will be paid on imports and exports in both directions, namely sugar, alcohol, cigarettes, used cars, used tractors, used buses, pneumatic tyres, new and used, and what is the rule for the determination of the country of origin of goods, are based on the principle of rules 50%. The value of all non-original materials used in the manufacture of a product is not greater than 50% of the ex-works price of the product. Under the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime, with the agreement between the Federal Government of the SRJ and the Government of the Russian Federation on free trade between the SRJ and the Russian Federation, signed on 28 August 2000, it is important to say that customs duties for the largest number of products originating in the territory of the two countries and liberalised about 95% of international trade, i.e. mutual trade. The agreement has been applied since the signing date, although the ratification procedure has not been completed in the Russian Federation. This document, which is due to be confirmed today, provides for duty-free exports from the Republic of Serbia to the Russian Federation, in addition to the above mentioned 95%, and for all medicines, slaughterhouses, confectionery products, apple juice, malt beer, fresh grapes wine, all soaps, wool fabric, refrigerators, freezers and other cooling devices, washing and drying machines, certain positions for carpets, seats, wooden, tapaced, wooden office furniture, sleeping bags, mattresses, bed linen and similar goods, in short, the spectrum of products that we can export is further expanded. Under the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is worth saying that the agreement was signed in Sarajevo on 27 March 2009 and that the initiative to conclude the agreement was launched by the Serbian side in early 2009. It is similar with the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on economic co-operation. The initiative was launched by the Croatian side, and the agreement was signed on 24 June 2009. It contains priority areas of co-operation, such as machine building, energy, infrastructure, shipbuilding, agriculture, food industries, pharmaceutical industries, tobacco industries, chemical industries, wood industry, tourism, co-operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The agreement on economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia was signed on the Serbian side's initiative, 22. Seventy-seven. In 2009 in Belgrade. It may also be interesting to mention, among other things, the ratification of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy, IRENA, the International Renewable Energy Agency, has been added. On 26 January 2009, the Republic of Serbia signed the Statute in Bono and became the founder of the International Agency for Renewable Energy, as the first international, or intergovernmental organisation to focus exclusively on renewable energy. Serbia's contribution to the International Agency for Renewable Energy is set towards the UN scale, with $4,388 being US dollars in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30358	I thank Mrs. Minister. Do the representatives, or the committee's reporters, want a word? (No) Did MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, issue opinions on points 50 and 51 of the agenda, want to speak? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this five-minute time period, which I have at my disposal to explain my separate opinion on two draft laws, of the 26, which are now being conducted in a joint principled search, I will begin to conclude that 26 points of the agenda are united with the most different content. If you've already had to merge the agenda points, you could at least do it by having a debate on contracts that you're borrowing from Serbia, and especially by separating agreements with traditional friendly states, because there are countries that you can co-operate with, and that are not your alleged friends from Western and Central Europe. This second group of agreements – with friendly countries – includes cooperation agreements in the field of tourism with the Republic of Cyprus and the Syrian Arab Republic. As for the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, it should be pointed out that Serbia has traditionally had good friendly relations with Cyprus, but what is most important in the relations between our two countries is that the Republic of Cyprus did not recognise the independence of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. The Republic of Cyprus experienced a fate similar to that of the Republic of Serbia, that part of its territory is under occupation and they know what it looks like. Otherwise, Cyprus is a country with a rather high GDP per capita and ranks among the more developed countries of the world. Tourism is the basis of economic development in Cyprus. In the GDP of Cyprus, the tertiary sector participates with 75.5% and employs 71.1% of the population. In light of this agreement on co-operation in the field of tourism, it says that its application will create conditions for contributing to bilateral and economic co-operation and that this refers to finding opportunities in the areas of investment, joint development projects and encouraging investors to participate in the privatisation process in our country's tourism area. Unfortunately, Serbia is in such a situation as to find foreign investors for all areas, including tourism, and it would be good if they were partners with Cyprus. What is a big problem with us is that tourism has been a neglected branch for many years. This is supported by the fact that the most frequent tourists in Serbia are citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, and it is not that Serbia has nothing to offer, on the contrary. When I say this, I mean primarily Banish tourism, which, unfortunately, has not really been developed to a sufficient extent. Serbia has a spa that has extremely medicinal properties. However, their capacities have not been used enough, since nothing has been invested for years. For example, in Jablanic County, Sijarinska Banja is very little used in comparison to the opportunities it owns. In Toplička County, only the Break of Banja was visited, while Kursumlijska and Lukovska Banja were almost completely neglected. The source of mineral water in Vica, near Prokuplje, goes to the Toplica River, and back in 1933, at international exhibitions in London and Paris, water from this source won the Grand Privilege for quality. As for the Agreement with Syria, it belongs to the middle-development countries, the tertiary sector accounts for 46% of the population, and in this sector it generates the highest profit and foreign exchange inflow. However, the quality of drinking water in Syria is unsatisfactory. Given that the Syrian side has initiated the creation of a new legal framework for co-operation in the field of tourism, although there is an agreement on co-operation in this 1974 area, however, between the government of the then SFRY and the Syrian Arab Republic, it would be good if the Serbian government now initiated an expansion of co-operation, so that perhaps we would welcome that one day mineral water from a source in Vica near Prokuplja be found on the Syrian market. In the end, let me remind the president of the National Assembly. Although the National Assembly represents the most legislative body, we have a situation where the greatest violation of both the Constitution and the law is committed right here. On August 31st, my resignation and colleague Elena Christmas-Talian were handed over. The Management Board has decided that there are no conditions for the end of the term of office and thus challenged our will to stop our mandates. The resignations of the MPs of other parties have always been accepted and these parties have been able to replace the MPs. Only the SRS is challenged by this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30360	Thank you. From representatives of the parliamentary groups, he first asked for a word from Mr Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30361	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We are having this debate on the day that the whole of Serbia regrets the death of his holiness to our patriarch, Paul. His wisdom, his modesty, his honesty, his devotion to the Serbian people, should be an example for all of us. Madam Chairman, we were expecting that today, because of all these significant topics, we have ministers here who will competently and in a democratic debate to answer all the questions that require these bill proposals. However, we have listened here to the Minister of Youth and Sports, Mrs Samardzic, who has read the already prepared text and we are not sure that she can give an explanation for all the points of the agenda that are ahead of us today. Mrs Dejanovic, you made a statement a few days ago praising the exceptional efficiency of this house, that the Assembly passed 227 laws and 70 ratifications during this term. No wonder she was able to pass so many laws and ratifications, when, for a debate like this, you set 26 points for this agenda today. If we just take the time allowed by the DSS Group, we have for every point the possibility of talking less than a minute. The points are extremely important, and we believe that this is the degradation of this congregation building. You spent six minutes just reading the agenda. Mrs. Dejanovic, you are the most powerful and responsible to respect this assembly home, the Rules of Procedure and the laws this assembly adopts. We asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic here just over a month ago, October 15, why does the government violate the Budget Law and why not go to the Assembly to explain the excess of the allowed budget deficit of 70 billion and 400 million dinars? Why was that budget deficit exceeded by 3 billion and 800 million dinars, as at that time it was 74 billion and 200 million dinars? That's why he didn't get his consent. For each budget overrun, consent must be given to this assembly. The overrun was 75 billion and 100 million dinars on November 1st. Mrs Dragutinovic, the finance minister, here, answered the question of MPs, said that the overrun in the budget is a matter of moment, that one moment this minus may be over-regular and then return to normal frameworks. However, that moment obviously lasted a long time and it is obvious to every citizen and every taxpayer that quite time will pass to return to the allowed frameworks, or not to return, because as it goes with consumption, it is obvious that by the end of the year, and that is the assessment of many, the budget deficit to exceed 120 billion dinars. I asked then – what about the budget calendar? Why did the finance minister not submit the draft budget to the government on 15 October, because it was the date until which it had to submit the draft budget for 2010. What is equally important and what citizens need to know, the government had to deliver a draft budget for 2010 to this House, the highest legislative institution, by November 1st. It's November 16th, we haven't received a budget proposal yet. You must insist on obeying the law. One more thing, Mrs. Dejanovic, why didn't we get an answer to our parliamentary question and when are we going to get it? Anyway, let's get back to the 26-point agenda. Because of the lack of time, we're not able to deal with all the points individually, so I'm going to say something about credit duties, about three points of credit, because time allows me to talk about it, even though we have very important bill proposals here. These are the proposals for legislation dealing with regulation of relations with the European Investment Bank, the IMF and more ratification. Here we have the Act confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 100m euros, the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank worth 24m and 500 000 euros and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a Loan for the Implementation of the Programme "A credit for the Assistance of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises from the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies", amounting to 30m euros. This is the total debt we are discussing today – 154 million and 500 000 euros. Just the other day, we had a debate here and ratified the Law of Indemnity for Corridor 10 worth 275 million and 200,000 euros and so on. A Chinese loan for the Belgrade-Borca bridge, which is an indicative value of about 200m to 230m euros. In doing so, many details of this Treaty, or of the Agreement, are not known to this day. In the course of the year, we have so far had a debate on eight debt laws, and that amounting to 640m and 400,000 euros, as well as ratifications of the IMF's special learning right, worth about $620m. In 2009 alone, this assembly ratified laws and agreements relating to loans worth billions and 700m euros. I don't mention an arrangement with the IMF here. Although you were in debt, you did not enter the procedure, although it was a huge arrangement of two billion and 900 million euros; you did not enter the procedure and we did not discuss it. In doing so, a 788m-euro tranche was realised. About the second tranche, which will be withdrawn either by the end of the year or the beginning of the year, we will have new responsibilities, and that is, indicatively, 700m euros. We will welcome the new year with three billion euros in new debts, so the total public debt will go to 11.5 billion euros by the end of the year. Public debt was 28% of GDP at the end of 2008, currently at 32.5%, and according to estimates of all experts, it will come out around 42% of GDP. In doing so, business entities and banks, whose debts are 14 billion and 850m euros, were not taken here. Of that, economic operators owe 10 billion and 900m euros, and banks owe three billion and 950m euros. When you add all of this up, because all of this goes into external debt, public debt and debt of businesses and banks, Serbia currently owes about 27 billion euros, or over 80% of GDP. You will congratulate the citizens of Serbia for the New Year by making each of them aware that, only on short-term commitments it has, it should pay $1,300. It is a debt per capita and the citizens of Serbia need to know that – taxpayers. Every taxpayer in Serbia, every citizen of Serbia, has a burden of $1,300 next year. Governor Jelasic himself said early this month that we are too fast in debt and that public debt could double from the current 32.5% of GDP. What worries us all is the speed and non-selective borrowing, the fact that this government is becoming drug addictive to ino-credits. In October, external debt burdened every citizen with 2,893 euros. By the end of the year, the foreign debt will reach 4,000 euros per capita. Prime Minister Cvetkovic said the other day that he had regained a smile on his face, as the incomes for the first time since the beginning of the year exceed the inflows, compared to the same period last year. I would remind you that the prime minister here in the assembly is responding to parliamentary questions, said that the arrangement with the IMF is not treated as a loan, but as a means of supplementing foreign reserves, not taking into account the fact that we are paying the funds at 1.39% interest. I am his adviser, Bosko Zivkovic, has indicated how unrealistic the prime minister's optimism is. I quote: "There is still no fundamental change on the basis of which it could be determined that the Serbian economy has taken the upward path. I'd be happy if 2010 wasn't worse than 2009. The borrowing to cover the budget deficit and to give various subsidies is politically useful for the short term, but within the longer term it is very dangerous." We have Prime Minister Cvetkovic laughing. He's got his smile back. It is obvious that despite the warnings of his associates, he does not realize all the difficulties of such borrowing, or it is something else. Regardless of numerous warnings about the growth of public spending by experts, Prime Minister Cvetkovic only found a surplus in public spending, remember, a surplus in public spending, for the first seven months, of 42 billion dinars. Public procurement participates with 16% in the gross social product. Minister Dinkic, known for his reckless, overly optimistic statements about the crisis on Friday, said on October 23rd that Serbia needs favourable loans to cover the budget deficit and finance development projects. "Any credit granted under favourable conditions is good for Serbia right now. ''Lords, it is obvious that Serbia is in debt and is becoming dependent on them, that every credit you receive is treated and represented to the citizens of Serbia as the success of your policy, your programme and the good work of your government. Don't worry about these loans actually bringing us into debt slavery and that generations and generations will pay those debts. You promised citizens many – 200,000 jobs, economic development, socially responsible government, living standards and 1,000 euros of free action. Such promises can only be made by such an irresponsible government, concluded by political parties who have come to the public with false promises and various programmes, which in no time would fall apart from being held by tycoons and ambassadors of foreign countries, those whom you and Boris Tadic promised to unnecessarily meet their requirements, which lead to Serbia's economic collapse and disintegration. On one television set, even a video is played that calls for benevolent help that would allow the opening of another 50 national cuisines. The result of this irresponsible government is the fact that we now have a lot more hungry and more than 300,000 people who are going to lose their jobs. The decline of the social product is really 12%, compared to those of your promises. At the end of last year you promised to grow the social product of 7.5%, so far the social product drop is 4.5%, so the real decline in gross social product is 12%. Internal claims are over two thousand billion, which is how agriculture is affected. The biggest debtors are the biggest systems, which publicly, which privately, the ones that put you together. Out of 960 million subsidised loans, 774 million went to the company's liquidity, and only 2.1m euros went to investment, i.e. to start production. The participation of agrarians in Serbia's budget is only 2.2% and in 2005, the participation of agrarians was over 5%. The development opportunity, in the opinion of all experts, is right for agriculture and Serbia should encourage regional development in agriculture. It's the only branch where we record surpluses and where we have perspective. Last year we had a 600 million dollar surplus, and this year, for the first nine months, 400 million dollars. By the end of the year, a surplus of $750m is expected. But what you obviously don't understand is that agriculture must have a special treatment, which is that it needs funds to solve the lending of production, regular collection of agricultural products, premiums and regressions, not to be delayed, or not to pay at all, so farmers know what to do with their products, who to sell them to and where to store them. I'll only remind you of the problems that corn and wheat producers had when it comes to ransom and storage. We all know what problems they've encountered and we've had massive protests. The apple is now three dinars, sold for three dinars and no one to buy it. In the end, Mrs Dejanovic, I want to ask you a question – what will you do about the lack of respect for the law and when will this assembly of the Republic of Serbia receive a draft budget for 2010? Your deadlines, Mrs. Dejanovic, have long passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30362	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I am obliged to respect the decisions of the Assembly, those of which we are MPs, and you and I, and the budget will be delivered to us by the Government, and that will be within the time when it was delivered and when Mr Kostunica was Prime Minister. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word. Replica? Here you go. I'm sorry, Mrs. Jankovic, first Mr. Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30363	Mrs Dejanovic, at a time when Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister, the finance minister was from the G17 Parliamentary Group, in one term, in the second term was the DS finance minister, the prime minister who laughs so much, Mr Cvetkovic. We asked those within the deadlines to deliver the draft budget and their problem is that they didn't deliver. Don't keep coming back with a story about what happened, and you amnesty those most responsible, which is exactly the finance ministers from these political parties. This time, we are looking for and asking for the 2010 budget at times when the country is in crisis and when the budget, in essence, should define Serbia's 2010 path and make it easier anyway, we hope, and many do not believe, the difficult position of all Serbian citizens, taxpayers who fill that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30364	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30365	I have to admit, I've never spoken in weirder circumstances before. Today I have the glory of St. George, Đurdzic. I would like to congratulate all the priests whose name is today, including Mr. Milos Radulovic. But somehow they're celebrating today in a different plan. The fact is that the patriarch, the Serbian gentleman Paul, retired, a man who personally testified that he served the Lord best, the life of the gospel, the God of man, Christ. For God's sake, the retirement of Patriarch Paul came as some sort of reminder to reconsider the vote of the Separatist Statute of Vojvodina, and instead of having a statute on the agenda on Thursday, we will go to the fervor of Patriarch Paul. We had the privilege and privilege of being contemporaries of a lighthouse. But it seems that it was not enough for us to develop a pure enough heart, so that today, instead of a congregation debate, we would all be on liturgy together, on the basis of the blessed rest of Patriarch Paul. To make things worse, according to the established rule, when one of the MPs of the "yellow axles" proposes to fusing out various points of the agenda, then usually this "dajed" agenda, which works according to the marketing principles of nes coffee, with the difference that these marketing mags also bring in something more modest, which goes "three into one", and these of ours relent on '26 in one'. Whatever it is, the 26 figure is not negligible, but what people know is 26 proposals to confirm the various international agreements. We don't know anything about so-called. The underground diplomacy. What would we now be josting about if we knew all the details of international agreements, when there are those who have "experts ahead of politics". It's a good thing, because with us politics has become a science of science and there's no such "critics of the pure mind" that could prove to such lumens as Boza Djelic, of course, absent from a mile called Boza Kanabis, since all knowledge and all property was acquired by lying on her aunt's cannabeta. The creator of the idea of the minister's rotation, too bad he didn't think about recycling, is currently in the position of the minister of science, which is approximately equal to the position of the Minister of the Navy in the Czech Republic. He's gone. The world stands out three to five percent for science, and in Serbia only about 0.3%. Even if all Serbian scientists had aunts and cannabis in which the foreign exchanges were damaged, it wouldn't be enough to get serious involved in their work, and it remains the principle: it looks similar to that. Science ministers are elected by political membership, not by expertise. So they don't get involved in their business. What would it look like if they were dealing with nonpolitical scientists who were bothering them with some principles there? The worse, the better for this incompetent and vermin government. No wonder about 100,000 young and educated people left Serbia. Only in Silicon Valley there are 200 to 250 Serbian engineers, 40 in Google, 30 in Sisko Systems. If things were better, if the idea of the minister's rotation were replaced by the idea of catapulting the bad government, 70% of young and educated people in the diaspora, according to research, would return to Serbia tomorrow. But since we have serious linguists here when it comes to the speeches of opposition MPs, I have to get back to the subject. My mind of the humble blonde age of half the old man Foca of 100 years has failed to master all these 26 proposed agreements, and I will focus on only one of them – Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation on imports of irradiated nuclear fuel from the research reactor to the Russian Federation. I know it sounds like "the impact of gamma air on the spooky brides," but it's even scarier because it's a real danger that, due to the poor handling of radioactive fuel, there's a nightmare in which not only the Vinca Institute would be contaminated, but also the whole of Belgrade. There is no danger of some terrorist, which Djelic spoke of, because anyone who tries to get close to the spent fuel of high radioactivity within a half metre would be more than dead. What are the reasons why we should even find ourselves in a situation where Serbian citizens are treated as'sabred innocent'? Holy Fathers speak of three basic ways to fall into sin: ignorance, forgetfulness, and laziness. In addition to being positive for all three, our ruling eyes have an amendment in terms of haughtiness, arrogance and extreme non-criticalness. The result is that almost all institutions are of national importance on their knees. One, unfortunately, not the only example, is the situation with the Vinci Institute of Nuclear Sciences. It's enough to say just a few words about the history of the Vinci Institute, so that we know what kind of scientific giant it was. No wonder the Croats have been complaining since their time as Yosaka that the Serbs have 'Vinchu', and they, the poor, can't figure out if they're producing an atomic bomb. So, with the technical assistance of the Soviet Union, the Institute of Nuclear Sciences "Vinca" built a research nuclear reactor in 1958. The first fuel was purchased in 1959, when the reactor started working. For 60 years of existence, "Vinca", which is still rightly viewed as the scientific heritage of Serbia and a valuable humanist from the fields of natural and technical sciences, has dropped more than 500 doctors of science, has given more than 100 university professors and more than 20 academics, normally, not Tomic's type, with over 20,000 published scientific and professional works. Serbia's assembly, on December 15th 1977, took over the rights and obligations of the founders of the Vinc Institute, which means it was also providing funds in Serbia's reactor financing budget. From 1977 to 1997, dedicated appropriations were provided, which were directed through the Ministry of Science. At the same time, fresh uranium fuel from the Soviet Union was purchased and highly enriched, to be installed into the RA reactor, instead of spent fuel. Officially, this was not due to a lack of political will to continue the work of this reactor. However, no investigation has ever been conducted whether it was sabotage on the reactor that caused him to stop working. After the 2001 terrorist attack, the United States began to exert great pressure, directly or through its stations in Vienna, to move that fuel out of all research reactors that used highly enriched uranium fuel and return it to its country of origin. Under enormous pressure, without consulting with experts in nuclear technology, the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia makes a mistake and decides to return 48kg of highly enriched fresh uranium fuel. This was done on a shortcut, without a broader discussion, legal basis or prescribed document. They say that at that time 1,500 officers provided transport of fresh fuel back to Russia, on a move from Vinca to Belgrade Airport. To make things more absurd, it was quite logical, and with a good and professional negotiator and possible, to agree that, with fuel that is not dangerous or radioactive, it is therefore of invaluable value, at the same time getting free transport of spent and highly radioactive fuel to Russia, since the Russians have all the necessary and very expensive technology, special containers, robotics that enable access, special transport and processing. In addition, it was quite possible to reach a contract with the Russians to fund the entire reactor and the entire Vinca Institute for at least ten years. In other words, at the time of Minister of Science Domazette and Foreign Minister Svilanovic, under the pressure of Americans, fresh nuclear fuel, which we paid very much in the mid-70s, was returned to Russia, through Americans, for free. As the shift of highly radioactive fuel was extremely expensive, the government failed to address the financing problem, and there was a decision to close the RA reactor through the Vincha Institute programme to clear the commission. The money we received from the International Atomic Agency in Vienna was not enough to remove that waste, the money was largely unintendedly spent. The only thing you can see now is a fence that protects us from allegedly entering terrorists, and "Vincha" has, by force, reached a dubiosis. Without consulting with Serbian experts from the country and abroad, practically, under suspicious circumstances, the Serbian government then decided to close down the RA reactor and hand over fresh nuclear fuel to foreigners. The government's chaotic moves continued, and the Green Vinci programme was launched in 2002, which was later renamed VIND. Of course, from the moment fresh fuel was transferred for free, officially, although it was not revealed who was and how much he had installed in the whole story of this transfer to this day, the Serbian government was unable to solve the problems of financing spent radioactive fuel and organising the work with experts from the Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences. Unfortunately, despite the adoption of various international obligations related to radiation protection and environmental protection, the government is making poor decisions regarding the effective implementation of the VIND programme, competent people from the Ministry are not experts in the field of nuclear technologies and techniques, and a growing budget for the implementation of the VIND programme is being spent increasingly unintended, and of course, without visible results. Pressed by international obligations, the Serbian government is there this year, now Djelic, again illegally and without public debate, is asking the Vinca Institute to be in charge of foreign banks for a minimum of $25m. As the Governing Board and the Scientific Council reject it, since it is illegal for the budgetary institution to raise a loan that will not be able to repay, the Government is sending a proposal to amend the Law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, i.e. adds a famous member of 48a, who, thanks to the congregation's majority, is adopted. Based on the 48a article, the Serbian government is tearing up the "Vinca Institute" and establishing the Public Enterprise "Nuclear Objects of Serbia", which was registered with the Agency for Economic Registers on July 27th 2009, with a code of activity of 90,000. What's that code? Disposal of waste and waste of sanitary and similar activities. It looks like a high-radio-active waste disposal. The JP "Nuclear Objects of Serbia" brutally hijacks property and expensive equipment belonging to the three laboratories of the "Vinca" Institute, and employees in these laboratories are being blackmailed to sign a contract with the JP. At a session on 2 April 2009, the government decided on the resolution of two members of the Governing Board of the Government, the chairman of the Management Board of Prof. Dr. Mitrakovic and member of Dr. Ljubisu Zekovic. Instead, he appoints new members, as chairman of the Management Board, to appoint a Science Minister Dr Dragan Domazet, former Minister of Science, from 2001 to 2004, known for his scandalous attempt to break up "Vince", and Master Radojica Pesic, his then deputy, as second member of the Management Board. Otherwise, the Pesic is in conflict of interest, as JP's director is also "Nuclear Objects of Serbia". After a meeting in the Republic Union on April 14th, the president of the Republic Science Union, Dr Djurdica Jovovic, sends an open letter to Minister Boza because of unfulfilled financial commitments. The same minister daily, in an electric rabbit's manner, is moving rapidly from medium to medium, where he talks about the needs of science funding and fantastic successes of our science. A letter of similar content was sent by the Trade Unions and finance ministers and the prime minister. On June 10th, the Minister of Science, at U 92, declares that the Institute will not be threatened at all, the assumption is that the kidnapping could be an incentive for scientific prerogatives, and on the same day, the government comes out with a proposal for a law on the export of radioactively irradiated fuel to Russia, in co-operation with the Vinca Institute. In light of this law, it is clear that the holder of this job is the Institute of 'Vinca', not some phantom public company 'Nuclear Waste of Serbia'. The new chairman of the Management Board Dragan Domazet schedules a "regular" session of the Management Board for the second day of collective annual vacation, July 17th, and in writing, by e-mail, threatening members of the Management Board from "Vince" that they will suffer consequences if they do not arrive. During collective vacation, JP in formation and its director, Radojica Pesic, put together some kind of price list of services, a labour rule, called the Public Enterprise Management Board, where Dr. Uranija Kozmidis-Luburic, a professor from Novi Sad, comes in the previous term as assistant minister of science, and psychologist Ana Pesikan, in charge of nuclear security. During the collective annual vacation of the Institute, on July 22nd, the Commercial Court registers the JP at the same address where the “Vinca” Institute, with a code of activity of 90,000, is that of removing garbage and sanitary activities. You'll admit, however, there's a small difference between the removal of spent nuclear waste and the disposal of municipal waste. For now, JP "Nuclear Waste of Serbia" has its director, secretary and board of directors, but not people who are able to do extremely dangerous work for the working environment and the surrounding population on fuel transfer to Russia. Despite the fact that the JP did not live, nor does it have employees, Radojica Pesic's director sends a memo to the director of the Institute 'Vinca', informing him that JP is taking over and performing the security function of the Institute. New passes are issued to employees in individual laboratories, with strict orders for porters who to miss and who to control well. Of course, there is no legal way for the Institute, without the consent of this congregation, to take over actions, property, and equipment. It is particularly interesting that the director of the “Vinca” Institute, Dr Jovan Nedeljković, the president of the Scientific Council, Dr Bojan Radak and the president of the union supporter of the “Vinca” Institute, who are, in our knowledge, all members of the DS. Although the nature of the job is required to protect the Institute, they stick their heads in the sand 'breaked yellow'. There's another interesting thing. They say that while the Vinc Institute is operating through the Commercial Bank, the newly formed JP operates through the Metals of the Vojvodjanska Banka, whose president is said to be the husband of Ms. Urania, chairman of the Management Board JP "NOS"; that means everything remains in the "yellow" family. Following the government's new problematic decision in July 2009, the problem of highly radioactive uranium-sustained uranium fuel remained unresolved. At the time of the visit of El Baraday, the head of the American office, and the president of the Russian Federation of Medvedev, an ideal opportunity was missed to correct the contractual clauses regarding international obligations, and to retroactively require compensation for the forced transfer of expensive and clean reactor fuel, by now linking it to the obligation to transport the fuel to processing, which was not an unusual procedure when experts participated in the negotiations at the state level, which, apparently, was not the case with us. The staff from the Ministry of Science in charge of nuclear security in this mandate were professors of the University of Novosad, who apparently specialising in this area took on high political functions, not in our only nuclear institute. Now what? To allow God's Cannabis to continue rotating science and politics both to the government and to the Assembly to impose solutions that lead to the Assembly, which is the founder of 'Vince', to take away the information from the Institute? Based on what? After all, where with a corpse, i.e. With that spent fuel? There are solutions, because Serbia is a small country of great people, people who have often not been recognized on domestic grounds, but have thus gained world fame. One of them is Jasmina Vujic, the first female dean of the Faculty of Nuclear Engineering in history not only of the prestigious California Institute "Berkli", but is among the 10 largest American research universities, which has been at the head of the Deans' Association of All Nuclear Colleges in the United States since July. Jasmina Vujic did not forget her native Serbia, her Faculty of Electrical Engineering, the Vinchu Institute, in which she worked from 1977 to 1985, before she went to doctoral studies in the United States. During her recent stay in Serbia, she gave several interviews in "Politica" and "The Witness", but also spoke with current Energy Minister Skundric, offering him a professional solution. Although she described him as a correct man, she did not find an adequate example. Minister Skundric must not interfere in the business of such a scientific Lumen as Boza Djelic. It's classic. The ministries are divided like fields and no one is allowed to cross their feet over the line, because they're going to be working hammers or shotguns. The Minister of Energy must not interfere in the work of the Minister of Science, even if the other one does not interfere in his own field. The solution of Jasmine Vujic is extremely practical, useful and possible. If we have a signed gas contract with the Russians, for Gerdap, they're remounting the thermopower plant, why wouldn't it be possible to reach an agreement with them to sell fuel, and at the same time they're taking it out, because they have a fuel processing system and a whole nuclear power plant package that Serbia could benefit from?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30366	Mrs. Jankovic, time's up. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30367	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have 26 contracts, agreements, conventions and statutes on the agenda, all united in one item of the agenda. At the same time, around 11 hours, the government's authority has arrived to have its representatives in the National Assembly, when considering these draft laws, be the youth and sports minister, Mrs Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, and Mr Sulejman Ugljanin, the minister without portfolio. With all due respect to the Ministers, I believe that their work is somehow not connected to this agenda point, with all these agreements, agreements, statutes, conventions, which are acts concerning exclusively certain economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with some international organisations or other countries. I'd like to underline that this isn't about sports contracts, youth, entertainment, and I'm guessing they're not even dealing with business that's part of a minister who's without portfolios. This only shows, in addition to the fact that this power arrived at about 11 o'clock, what the government's attitude towards this assembly is, and what does the government expect from the Assembly when it is to discuss draft laws concerning the ratification of certain international legal affairs. Again, when we look at all these legal proposals, when we compare them to the fact that the presidents of the Assembly took almost 10 minutes to read each of the titles of these legal matters, that the minister who explained the bill's proposals took about 15 minutes to point to the essence of these contracts, the question arises – what is relevant and important to the legislators regarding these laws? In fact, the LDP remains, about 40-50 seconds for individual legal proposals, to say something about them, to recommend something, to criticise or praise. Indeed, it is unserious to assume that in 40 minutes, individually, we can say something that is relevant to these proposals of the law, especially as point 31 refers to some 100m euros, item 32, point 25m euros, point 33 - to 25m euros, point 37 - to 140m, etc., and this is also about certain trade agreements, framework agreements that assume big jobs, big money, big debt in the near or further future of this Serbia. If we start from the assumption that public debt is extremely large in Serbia, if we start from the assumption that external debt is also very large, if we start from the fact that social enterprises are long ago, a few years ago, they should have been privatised, according to all the laws that were valid and still valid in the Republic of Serbia, if we start from the fact that public enterprises are the biggest losers in Serbia, then the question arises – why is so much inconclusive about Serbia's economic co-operation with international organisations and other countries, so where serious money is involved, about serious interests and both sides? I would just like to remind you of that famous agreement on the sale of NIS between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and the profit shown last year, the original profit of three billion dinars, which has been turned into a loss of eight billion euros, which has finally confirmed the second audit house in one control, so the question is, how could we even discuss and ratify this NIS deal, or a majority package of actions, if we didn't know whether it was a public firm winning or losing 2008? So again, I'm going back to the core of the problem, and the core of the problem is that the biggest losers are public and social enterprises, which haven't paid taxes for years, don't pay contributions, don't pay pension-inhabited, or health contributions, so it's possible that many workers today don't have a work experience, and they have problems and health insurance concerns. In this context, the question arises why is it so important for this country to fiscalise law? The lawyership, I must remind you, is that this kind of profession requires a certain level of independence, a certain level of impartiality, a certain level of freedom from all branches of government, because it is often on the defender of the rights of citizens, the freedom of citizens, compared to the will of the government. Why is it necessary, among other things, for the lawyer to be independent? Among other things, and because we are discussing 26 laws today, conventions and so on, where if a question arises as to who made those agreements and contracts, in response we get that they are most likely, most likely, the most targeted legal offices, lawyers. So, if lawyers make contracts and agreements, they're supposed to lead parties to consent. If the parties agreed, they actually hired, both sides, that lawyer, that lawyer's office that made up those contracts. These are very serious contracts, each of these 26. It's assumed that whoever did technical things represented both sides. So he was objective in making those contracts, he was impartial, he was free, he was independent. The team needs to have a really independent approach, an independent "worker" in terms of making a contract, because obviously we are not capable, we do not have time, we do not have the infrastructure to enter the core, in the problem of each of these contracts. We don't have a reason why the government has a very strange relationship with Parliament, and in this very little time we give ourselves to analyze each of these legal matters, because we combine so many points, 26 points, into one point, and we make these legal jobs a big problem for future generations, because we're just increasing that external debt. Even that foreign debt might not be such a problem if we were to settle internal debts, internal claims, tax collection, payment of claims from those who are, in fact, the biggest losers and the biggest debtors. Without independent attorneyship, we are adequately protected by the rights of individuals' interests. Without an independent lawyer, the law firm that made these contracts, we have no real protection of the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So it's not enough for the government to honor the word that it won't abuse fiscalization, because fiscalization is a big problem for the lawyer. You can imagine what these attorney offices and lawyers would look like, who, after making up each of these individual contracts, would appear with a fiscal account, and the fiscal register does not distinguish between the quality, importance, weight of the legal work that is being made up, does not make the difference between the purchase contract of a garage and a contract, for example, the guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. If we introduce a fiscal account for such a type of business, we are, in fact, allowing the tax authority to enter every law firm under the pretext that it will control whether the fiscal account is good, whether the lawyer has failed to type in, do according to the applicable regulation, and in that case, the tax authority, or the executive authority, has a direct impact on the work of every law firm, if it is responsible for that executive authority to grant individual lawyers, or disciplines against whose needs. So that's the most dangerous thing a fiscal account introduces in the work of a lawyer. I remind you that lawyers pay taxes, that lawyers are obliged to settle their tax obligations, that there are two ways to pay taxes, one is to pay taxes, and one by keeping books, depending on whether a lawyer exceeds a certain income limit, which is 4 million dinars over the bill. The vast majority of lawyers and how he takes care to settle his obligations to the state. Unfortunately, we have situations where rights are abused by lawyers, very often we have an "essradation" of lawyers. The media, too, is doing that estradisation. We have cases where lawyers act against the law code. I remind you it's really a minority, because lawyers, among other things, have legal fees. According to that tariff, which is otherwise published in the Official Messenger, they have an obligation to charge the fees provided for in the tariff. Normally, parties with lawyers can negotiate below and above the price list under certain conditions, but that's consent will. They're not lawyers in that sense independent of doing whatever they want, but they're independent in that they can resist any arbitrary authority. Immediately after World War II, lawyers were tried to discipline themselves with some of the stalemate methods. During the 1990s, we witnessed that the lawyers were once again tried to discipline themselves, by putting themselves in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, that the Justice Department was keeping records of the registration and registration of lawyers and of eradicating them from that register. However, it failed in either the first or the second attempt to limit lawyers in this most important obligation, that, above all, they represent the interests of their clients and their parties, to represent their rights, which affect both human rights and freedoms, and without a free and independent lawyer, we cannot expect that an average citizen will fight for his freedom and for his justice. With a government regulation that provides for the fiscalisation of law enforcement, a large number of citizens, one serious layer in every way, we make it impossible for vulnerable citizens to access justice and court, because lawyers are obliged to issue fiscal bills immediately for each service they provide. So, when a client enters the attorney's office and asks for a lawyer to represent him, the lawyer's relationship is already starting – the represented person. That's when the lawyer is already obliged to issue a fiscal bill for the council. I can tell you that the vast majority of lawyers do not work by taking money in advance, but rather leaving that money, or that fee for their work for later, when a specific goal is achieved which is why the lawyer is hired. Therefore, it should not be generalised, so one serious profession, which is guaranteed freedom and rights, should not be put at risk, simply put into jurisdiction and under the authority and will of the Government, executive and tax authorities. The point is that the government is unable to abuse its right. By fiscalizing, we give that possibility to the government, even though the government swears there will be no abuse. Put yourself in a position where you have to hire a criminal lawyer for tax evasion. The tax authority, under the pretext of fiscal account control, can enter the attorney's office, can control the case, can access data that are top secret, between lawyers and clients. What's that? It's pressure on a lawyer. It is a threat to client confidentiality – a lawyer, it is a threat to freedom that everyone has the right to defend himself and that everyone has the right to hire a confidential lawyer to represent him before the court. At the same time, we allow these fiscal accounts to be closed by law offices for a certain period of time, therefore, a ban on the work of a lawyer for two months, which is also dangerous because it is also a form of pressure on the lawyer. When we sum it up, then we get to the end of this story again, these 26 laws. What if there were doubts that one of the lawyers who formed these contracts and agreements on that occasion was under someone's duress, under someone else's pressure, that he wasn't objectively representing both sides, and that it was large sums, which, after all, would fall on our burden?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30368	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30369	Dear Presidents, honourable Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject of today's united principle debate is a number of draft laws on the approval of contracts, agreements, protocols and conventions, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption, if I am not mistaken, between April and October this year. It can therefore be concluded that they are the result of truly active and elaborated work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely our country, in several very significant segments, i.e. areas, above all, in the areas of development and economic co-operation with several countries – Slovakia, Sweden, Austria, BiH, Croatia and Macedonia, then, in the area of free trade and further liberalisation with the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and Turkey, in the fields of scientific and technological co-operation, tourism, in contracts to avoid double taxation in relation to income and property, and more contracts, guarantees and agreements on co-operation with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and it is necessary to mention the confirmation of the proposal to amend the Statute of the IMF and the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy. Given that we appreciate that the adoption of these draft laws will lead to a significant improvement and improvement of our country's potential and results in these areas, the SPS-JS MPs will, I would like to say at the very beginning, in principle support all the draft laws which are the subject of this united principle debate. As very important from the angle of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, I would like to highlight two draft laws in the area of free trade, i.e. further liberalisation, which are the draft legislation on the validation of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime, with the agreement of the Federal Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation of 2000, and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on free trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus. The two draft laws are indicators and evidence that no doubt good and friendly relations, especially lately, are constantly improving, thanks to the work and understanding of the governments of the Republic of Serbia, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus and create conditions for improving economic co-operation. In this respect, it is necessary to highlight the specificity of economic co-operation with the Russian Federation, which is seen, above all, in the good positions and experiences of our businessmen on that market, and then the existence of the 2000 Agreement, which, by confirming this Protocol, is also being replaced by it, and the fact that at this point there is a mutual assessment that these effects can be significantly improved and co-operation improved. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPS-JS MPs are pleased that the talks and meetings of Mr Ivica Dacic, as president of the Intergovernmental Trade and Technical Cooperation Committee, and the Minister of the Government of the Russian Federation, Mr Shojgu, have resulted in the signing of this protocol, which will certainly be a further prerequisite for further liberalisation, i.e. duty-free exports from the Republic of Slovenia to the Russian Federation, precisely those products that will present a significant advantage for our exporters, which will give them good placement positions on this large and attractive market. On this occasion, I would also like to comment briefly on the draft law confirming the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy, for the reason that Parliament's Club, or MP Milisav Petronijevic, requested and proposed to supplement the agenda at this meeting, and, otherwise, on behalf of the Government, the Statute was signed by the Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr Petar Skundric, in early 2009. In fact, it is the first international organisation to focus exclusively on renewable energy, and the main goal is to make this a fundamental driving force for the promotion and sustainable use of renewable energy throughout the world. It is particularly important for countries that do not have their own resources and resources, which unfortunately includes Serbia, and we hope and assume that this agency will play a major role in the fight against the global warming of our planet. The Agency's work will, above all, be reflected in the provision of concrete advisory services, technology transfer, through realisation and capacity-building for the use of renewable energy. The prerequisite for this to happen is that the National Assembly confirms the Statute and thus creates the preconditions for the budget for 2010 to plan the funds to achieve the membership of the RS in this agency, and thus the accession to the annual budget of this agency, which is assumed to be around $25m in 2010. Of course, this will also mean the possibility for RS to realise certain funds and to achieve a significant shift in the area of sustainable use of renewable energy, which is a provision for future generations. All in all, by adopting a proposal for legislation that is on the agenda of a united debate, we are sure that quality co-operation will be achieved on the longer term, which will strengthen our political positions in many countries, and that our country and policy will be affirmed, which is very important, which will speed up our economic potentials as well. Therefore, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support all draft laws in this united principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30370	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30371	These 26 items of the agenda joined together in a single debate talk about the importance that the government attaches to Parliament and to the MPs, but also to the points of the agenda. On behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, I will only talk about four agreements, which I consider to be the most important for the weight of the obligations that remain behind, and because of the viewers, I will show what the rest of the 22 agreements looks like and how many hundreds of pages that have earned attention from the 20 minutes of the authorised representative and 25 minutes of time for the parliamentary group, for example, forward Serbia. I cannot help but be aware of the circumstances in which we are working today and instead of any other expression of compassion with the loss that we all have, I will say that I want the Patriarch Paul to remember what my idea of leadership is – that there is no such goal in life, neither great nor small Serbia, nor anything that needs to be achieved by wicked means and that we need biologically, even, to disappear as Serbs if we glorify evil and inhumans. Believe it or not, there is no place where Mr. Paul's letter does not apply. Is it honorable to re-infringe what is called unwritten labour rules in this assembly and to discuss 26 points of the very important agenda to send a minister without a portfolio, with all the personal respect of Mr Ugljanin, or allow the Minister of Sport to read a few introductory sentences about these points? Is it honorable as the first item of the agenda to put in worthless paper? Are you ashamed of the lender? The first item of the agenda under these 26 points is the credit, i.e. the guarantee that the RS should lend to the loan provided by the European Investment Bank for vehicles, multi-part electric furniture. She even read the minister, under the conditions for this guarantee, that the deadline for entry into force of the Loan Treaty is 120 days from the date on which the Treaty was signed. Those who are uninformed, not to use such nicknames, should turn to page 7, so that they can verify that this contract was signed on 8 May 2009, that this break-up condition in these documents was defined for 120 days and that it expired for its application on 5 September 2009. Today, November 16th, this is not a discussion document. This is a paper in which the element, which is called – a break-up condition, has already come and whoever lends the loan and asks us for a guarantee for this with the right to ask – what have you been doing so far? The question I am telling you is this - is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as minister of infrastructure, and what, deserved to make a precedent for a session that was under way, which is the one with 58 points of the agenda, and to hold a debate on the loan for Corridor 10, to hold a vote, so that this break-up will not take place, and here we have allowed the break-up conditions to take place and today we are discussing it? Is that the division of the feuds, the fields, as who calls it, or is it different for individuals to have access to the obligations they make on behalf of the state, or on behalf of us? Is that allowed? Who here takes care of honor in relation to obligations, and that's just the beginning? It is said that we are getting a document saying that it is necessary for the RS, in accordance with constitutional obligations, to guarantee that the loan could be used. The loan is worth 100m euros, but these documents lack a loan agreement. So what's the basis for giving this guarantee to us is unknown, it's not even in the draft, there's a sign of what this loan contract contains in the explanation. Is there a lawyer here, or colleagues who have a long parliamentary experience, to ask them – can the reasoning of the law replace the necessary document that must be part of the material for the adoption of this item of the agenda? I'm saying he can't. It is said that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ready to grant a 100m-euro loan for the purchase of vehicles, electric furniture. First and basic question - do we need this loan at all and did the state try to use all other reserves, in terms of the funds it has but which it does not control, in order not to take this loan? I'm saying it's not. I claim, for example, that the European Investment Bank, which is the most talked about in these agreements, which will give us this year, which will put us in charge of a billion and 300m euros in credit, actually mentions the amount equal to the amount for which the finance minister, rightly, recognises that he has no control over that kind of money and that he spends and collects from citizens beyond the budget. Later, the finance minister eased her statement, that it was about own revenues that the state does not only control, and they are used by law, and I am fully responsible for saying to this public that the minister is coming to the problem of not applying the Budgetary System Act, under which all public funds should be recorded through the consolidated account of the Treasury and without amending the Law, and by applying the Budgetary System Act only to publish an order, i.e. a list of all those who have to carry out their business through the consolidated account of the Treasury. Then it wouldn't happen that these government authorities, organizations and agencies, the money they get by giving the government the right to make money from citizens, by charging monopolies and services, are incometing and then holding hands with banks, where tomorrow the government is taking loans under very unfavourable circumstances. So, a billion and 300m euros of uncontrollable money exists, but the state does not want to put that money into such infrastructure projects, for entirely certain reasons. Even what is its own income, tuition fees or health care services is not sufficiently regulated by law, in terms of records, or payment control, or control of the spending of those funds. If it were, we wouldn't be talking today about the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee that the Republic of Serbia has to give for the purchase of electric furniture. There is one previous question, to which the government and the responsible have not answered. What's that electric furniture going to do? My lords, the railroad should first be reconstructed and what this electric motor element is going on, which is, in general, the question of whose decision it is made to make, that's exactly what it is to get, the 30 parts that need to go on an unrecovered rail. There are barely any details as to how this decision happened. In the guarantee agreement itself, the state is obliged, in Section 2.03, through other obligations, to maintain a transparent system of financial compensation to the borrower, through the guarantee, so that by 2010, the Republic of Serbia is the borrower of the "Serb Railways", in connection with the obligation to provide public services, in accordance with the Law on Railways. "Keeping financial compensation" in translation means – from the budget to help the Railways and to grant subsidies. Under b) he says, "The guarantor will officially adopt rules concerning fees for the use of infrastructure before 31 December 2010, "using the infrastructure fee regime and the data catalogue on the Serbia Railway Network, which was created by Buzz Allen Hamilton, 2007. What company is this? In what capacity did she find a place in the very guarantee agreement? Whose needs did she do this project for? Who ordered it? Where will that be paid? In point (c) of what remains of the obligation, the part in which the devil is usually hidden, says the following – the guarantee will be prepared and approved before 30 June 2011 by the contract on the objectives and tasks relating to the financing of the railway infrastructure between the guarantor and the borrower. My people, this insults elemental logic. In 2009 give unconditional and irrevocable guarantees for all direct and secondary costs, written, unwritten, possible changes, and in 2011, by 30 June, will the mutual relations of the guarantor and the borrower and approve the contract on objectives and tasks?- I'm sorry. Budget, a house from the roof, written according to wishes; a loan guarantee contract given in 2009, and the objectives and tasks of the infrastructure to which this should move, this will be made in 2011. If anyone thinks anything is not possible in this country, I assure them otherwise, reading the government document. The expected effects and benefits from the purchase of electric furniture for regional traffic would be the following, according to the explanation, a contribution to Serbia's economic growth through better integration, which will stimulate the development of the region, and a larger share of the Railways in the division by mode of transport, and a transport organisation adapted to the needs of users, thus increasing revenues from passenger transport, reducing the cost of exploitation and maintenance costs. Words, words, words, paper and words, paper suffers everything, and hollow words, without even one single data that would mean cost-effectiveness and why Serbia enters this obligation, without the loan provided that is the basis for this guarantee. It is necessary to obtain 30 multi-part electric furniture, where the duration of the loan will be 15 years, with four years of grace periods, where the loan payment would take place in 22 half-years of war, with the payment dates of 8 March and 8 September, where the fee on the undrawn part of the loan is 0.5% per year, and in the final account of the 2007 budget, the Republic of Serbia, due to its failure to withdraw approved credit lines, has paid a million euro interest on undrawn funds, so this is not a data that does not worry. What's really out of our minds is that it's a deadline for the loan agreement to go into effect for 120 days, so the document's already expired, and we're talking about it as a condition for granting the loan, because this is a guarantee condition. As far as it's possible, I really don't know, respected citizens, to explain. The railways' obligations are to develop and adopt a business plan for each business unit, to do the calculations according to international standards for financial reporting. As these international accounting standards were used in making, for example, the final account of the NIS, and how creatively interpreted, explains the situation of those illegal donations the government requested from the NIS in 2004 and 2005, only at the level of eight billion dinars, and the practice began in 2002. Whether or not the international accounting standards are going to be used here as "creatively" and whether the borrower is going to be giving us the time to close down, like those who are responsible and in charge of it, we're just going to have a chance to see it. What is not good is that for these 100,000 euros, the Republic of Serbia, as a guarantee, read from the reasoning, fully guarantees that all monetary obligations are met in a timely manner. All obligations are conditioned by issuing and continuing validity of the guarantee that we give as a guarantee for the Public Enterprise "The Railways of Serbia". Did the Republic of Serbia, as a guarantee, ask the Railways of Serbia, for guarantees that they would be able to meet the loan commitments they are taking? You can't see that here, because we don't even have a basic loan agreement. Does this have to be like this? I claim that it does not have to, because creditors who have loans in principle – take or leave – have different access to creditors at one time or another. Gentlemen of Serbian citizens, from 2001 to today, this lender has tightened the funding conditions for the Republic of Serbia. Is the result of that coming out of those general conditions, more stringent toward everyone? I cannot assess this, because the government of the Republic of Serbia believes MPs should not have a share of these general conditions, where members are given only in the first positions, without the justification of what is a burden and what is necessary for a statement. Probably, the government of the Republic of Serbia saves paper. How is this done in some more serious countries – in the Republic of Croatia, an environment country, which also uses loans from such a lender? In a completely different way, MPs are provided with information about what loans have been used so far, how much of them have been used, which are payment obligations, whether they are talking about deadlines and what is the weight of the documents that are being adopted. No, this government wants to see the world only when it suits it, and when it has to show responsibility to Parliament and citizens, then respecting those who do it more seriously and more responsibly does not apply. To detail, I will present to you for the next loan from the European Investment Bank, when I speak as a speaker, how those who really want to account for the people do so. Even though we're a little more in charge of the country than we are, which can never be given the right to make a good move, that doesn't mean that we don't need to know all the elements that need to be made known today about these duties. The fact that since 2004, there is no public debt administration, that we do not have a single element that speaks about the weight of borrowing, that we do not have a separate private and public debt in the way the rules impose, rather than depending on a certain need, depending on who is talking and why the data is speaking, is really devastating for all of us as a society. But it's not just impressions and our emotional state. These are the things that carry the material weight and this is the reason that, even if there was no one else, it speaks of the superficiality and indifference of the government, which comes before us with such proposals of the law. We can't vote for them by chance, and I don't think it's ever been a lower level of respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by the executive authority, than it is today, when we talk about these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30372	23 minutes, thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go. Apology, MP, the MP's unit gives a signal that it's on, but apparently the microphone isn't right. I'd like you to use the second electronic voting unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30373	Ladies and gentlemen, these twenty laws should, above all, be observed in the context of our economic policy, which is aimed only, can be said openly, to fulfil the IMF's mandate and related organisations. In that sense, if this contract is observed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is certainly good as part of, as regards the 100m euros heading towards our infrastructure, but on the other hand, it should be said that the IMF requires precisely in the railway area to reduce the subsidy. When you compare it on one side and on the other, you'll see that our country is down. The same can be said of other contracts, and it is particularly scandalous that the law concerning loans with Italy says that small and medium-sized enterprises will be financed through the domestic banking sector. That's just not true. It is widely known that the domestic banking sector does not exist, because the monopolies are Western banks, with a percentage of between 75% and 80%. So we should use precise definitions and not deceive the public. As far as concrete laws are concerned, above all, it is necessary to point out the law concerning the IMF and it, in full terms, shows double standards and concealing the truth from our public. The proposal for a bill to confirm amendments to the IMF Statute, more specifically, paragraph 35, states that we are in a group with Poland, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and other countries as regards the vote in the IMF. When it comes to that, it should be said that it is no advantage, because according to the latest data from the US state authorities, 31. 12. In 2008, the total debt of Poland amounted to $243 billion. So that's the standard that asks us for the IMF and that's the classification of our country. Otherwise, the Polish debt increased by $10 billion compared to 2007. These are real cannons and the real trend that awaits our country. Also, the country's external trade deficit rose from 2007 to $25 billion in 2008. Of course, foreign exchange reserves have dropped three billion dollars, and the balance of payments deficit in Poland, the country to be seen, is minus 26 billion dollars. This is reality, the rest are phrases about a European future, about IMF reforms and similar and accompanying organisations. As for our country, the IMF forecasts an alleged growth of 1.4% in 2010, and that is also false data. I will say, on the other hand, that Unicredit Bank, its Southeastern and Central Europe centre, says Serbia will record a 0.7% GDP decline in 2010. Those aren't our claims, they're claims just 'Uncredited Bank'. In that sense, it can be said that someone is cheating on the public again, and if you look at the source of the data, that means the IMF. The only similarity that can be drawn by comparison with Poland is that Poland, as well as the former SFRY in the early 1980s, had a huge external debt precisely because of so-called. Co-operation with the IMF and that debt led to the collection of life-forms, milk and everything else, of course, after and after the protests led by the Solidarity Movement. At the same time, there was a debt crisis in the SFRY and, when we compare the value of the $ from 1981 to 2006 and 2007, we come to the conclusion that in the period from 1981 to 1986, the former Yugoslavia paid off foreign and Western creditors $60 billion of the current value. It's a huge number, and it's a figure that, in the fullest sense, destroyed the economic system of the former Yugoslavia. Then came nationalism, and conflicts, etc., etc. It should be mentioned that the SFRY debt did not fall at all during that period, moreover, it increased despite the repayment of these huge loans. The interpretation of the law should convince us that the IMF is some well-intentioned organisation, that the IMF should be glorified in our public, as it has been doing in the last two or three years, and, on the other hand, when loans are to come from the sources of some other countries, to us friendly ones, then we talk about our country's duty, which is a classic example of applying double standards. The reasoning of the law shows that the IMF is reportedly an organisation that, in line with the change in the Statute of 28 April 2008, "will provide assistance to countries facing the challenges of globalisation". What does that mean exactly? If we literally interpret these phrases from an explanation, it means that the IMF is fighting globalisation. This is more than incorrect and free to say one unbulful claim. As an example of how incorrect this is and how wrong this is to deceive the public, I will take data from a man who's been running the US economic policy for the past 20 years, a man who's been leading the state's policy that has the most action in the IMF, about 20%, a man who's run the state's economic policy that clearly determines what the IMF is going to do, and for this is the best example of the admission of Kosovo Quasi state to the IMF. That's Alan Greenspen, who was president of the U.S. Federal Reserve. He performed that function until about a year or two ago, and was elected in 1987. Prior to that, he was in the Council of Economic Advisors, his associates were finance ministers, etc., etc. So Greenspen, in his memoirs, is the rights of the IMF and US policies and the book, titled "The Age of Financial Unsustainableness", he talks about the strategy of globalisation and the IMF and the World Bank's strategy. Literally, I quote on page 15, argues that trade liberalisation has helped win new sources of raw materials. It is more than clear what is behind this liberalisation – taking or stealing raw materials from the countries of the Second and Third World. Also, on page 16, he admires Adam Smith and so on. The invisible hand of the market, so for every economist and all the educated man, it is clear to what kind of economic system he stands for – without social justice, without a welfare state. After all, we heard Governor Jelasic, that we do not need the state of prosperity. We of the SRS think we need it more than ever. On the other hand, Mr Greenspen, on page 20, sets up a kind of ultimatum for citizens from poor countries, such as ours, and says they have to choose, literally, between the value of the open market and the preservation of domestic culture. It also criticises, on page 37, moral exclusions, because they do not exist, and values and ethics are something that cannot be in the context of serious thinking, something that intersects with elementary moral principles, elementary economic principles and, what not to say, with our Orthodox culture. Finally, on page 449, Greenspen states that unnecessary social security networks are, as those apriorities hold back the implementation of free trade. These are the principles of the IMF, these are the principles of the Fed and this reasoning of the law is more than contrary to them. Also, on page 441, it advocates abolishing subsidies and is against the adoption of laws limiting the power and income of the oligarch. When we apply this to the Republic of Serbia, we will understand why the IMF in negotiations with the Republic of Serbia did not require additional taxation of Mr Miskovic or any other oligarch, but required a reduction of wages and pensions and a blow to the poorest layers of the population, to health benefits, to local self-government and so forth. At the end of his book, in conclusion, he argues that we have no other reasonable choice than the market economy, which must not be hampered, and concludes that capitalism spreads wealth through, above all, literally, creative destruction. Perhaps you can say that these are the thoughts of a man who is retired, who is in years and now he does not determine the economic policy of the United States, but what does practice show us? Practice shows that these principles, despite this adoption of the change of the Statute, apply on 28 April 2008, in our region. We have an example of neighbouring Romania. At the end of 2008, Romania had an external debt of about $100 billion. On the other hand, it had a $24 billion deficit, which is an increase, as in Poland, compared to 2007, and an external trade deficit of $26 billion. What is required, in addition to such a disastrous situation in Romania? What does the IMF want from this country for 2010? Elimination of 150,000 jobs. This sparked huge protests in Bucharest in October 2009, involving about 800,000 people. On the other hand, the IMF has achieved, in the present time, a reduction in public sector employees from the Baltic state of Latvia, the release of teachers, the release of nurses and medical staff, a one-third pay cut. All these alleged IMF reforms have led to a fall of 18% of the country's gross domestic product, which is in the EU, which is supposed to be a model for our next so-called. reforms. What's the effect in practice? The consequence in practice is that people from this country who are EU members are mass crossing the border with Russia and buying the most basic foods to survive. After all, it could have been seen a few months ago on a Russian satellite program, so it's no secret or speculation whatsoever. Of course, in the following year, Latvia is asked to sell state telecommunications, banks and national airlines, which is again more than similar to the situation in our country. One difference, compared to this country, is that the monopoly does not hold Austrian banks and insurance companies, but Sweden and they ask Latvia to reach an agreement with them of 6 billion mortgages. It's obvious that this country won't be able to pay for it and it's clear what's going to happen in a few years. This should be added to the fact that Austrian banks in the Republic of Serbia, like Romania, hold around 20% of the market and can dictate interest, and apparently our authorities can also dictate the terms and conditions of the conclusion of bilateral contracts, as is the case with points 53, 34, 32 and 31 of the agenda, in this respect the work of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'll give you a concrete example. These banks demanded that the "Alpine", an Austrian firm, reconstitute the stock from Kokino Brod to the border with Montenegro, in the length of 10 km, although the "Putevi" Užice did so in the previous period – raise seven bridges and reconstruct about 80 km of this route. At the same time, because of such a policy forced by Austrian firms in the Republic of Serbia, 570 Serbian construction firms went bankrupt. In this context, points 40 and 41, which regulate agreements with Russia and Belarus, which are good on paper and in this sense have no objections, but in practice, these agreements, which do not have countries west of Karpat, will be used by Austrian companies, Slovenian firms. This was not even hidden when Slovenian and Serbian businessmen met on October 5th 2009, when Slovenian firms openly said that the main advantage of the Republic of Serbia is free trade agreements with Belarus and Russia. Of course, in negotiations with the Republic of Serbia, the IMF also received other concessions that are mildly scandalous. Reduction of pension expenditure from 13% of GDP to 10% of GDP by 2015, earnings, from 10% of GDP to 8% of GDP by 2015. So, hit the standard again, hit the pensioners again, hit our employees again. Also, in an interview with the latest number of NIN, the finance minister admitted that the freezing of pensions was agreed by April 2011. However, because of the public, it should be said that it is not about freezing pensions, but about their fall. Generally known, it was also cited by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, that inflation is about 7.5% somewhere. So it's a pension drop for 5% a year. By this time, about 20% will be a pension drop. Of course, there's also a reduction in retirement age. On the other hand, arguments can be made that must be done, that they are reforms. You have an example of large countries, such as Russia, which will increase pensions realistically by 30% in 2010. Again, it can be said that they have oil, have a 120 billion-euro surplus in trade with the EU. If we give examples exactly from this country that has the greatest impact, which is the US, then we get the following data: in 1940, in the United States, the retirement age was about 69 years, and now it's 62, on average. So it's exactly the opposite of what we're asked to do. Also, the increase in US health spending over 65 years in the last 10 years was 4%. It's bigger growth than GDP growth in America. If we look closer to the past, in 1971 Nixon's administration froze not only wages, but prices. It has nothing to do with what the IMF advocates, so-called. neoliberal capitalism. I remind you, inflation in America was about 5%. So it's about double standards. Another example of this is one country that can be fully compared to us per capita, which is Greece, which, although it has a decline in its main economic branch, in tourism, of 20%, in exports by 22.8%, has increased expenditure on health, for the poor and for education by two billion euros next year. So there's no explanation for what's being applied here. There's no explanation for the deficit. Of course, we are against deficits, but the deficit in the EU zone is 5.9%, and these are required by Serbia to have dragon conditions in the full sense of that word, Serbia is required to meet conditions that no one meets in the EU, which do not meet the United States, which have a 12% deficit, at the expense of pensioners, health workers, employees in education, at the time of the biggest economic crisis in the last 20 years. We believe that the government should realistically observe the IMF's intentions and not think that there is a humanitarian organisation or a Red Cross behind the IMF, but rather the United States, which is the primary goal of getting rich at the expense of the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30374	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP Parliamentary Group, the DSS Parliamentary Group, the G17 Plus Group of MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia, the SRS Parliamentary Group. We move to the section of the session where we are working in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in a joint single search of the draft laws in paragraphs 31 to 56 of the agenda. The first on the list of registered speakers is MP Slobodan Maras, and after him, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30375	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will not repeat that this huge number of agenda points, which is connected to one, seems pointless. I wanted to ask you, the chairman, since 25 people were invited by the President of the Assembly to attend this debate on the 26th agenda, who are these nice people behind Mr. Ugljanin, who, at least, leaves the impression that he listens to speakers? Who are these cute people who shut up all the time, talk, laugh? So 25 people are invited here, the three of them are sitting, and I don't know who they are. I just wanted to ask if I knew who I was talking to, because the Minister, who explained these 26 agreements, the bill, etc., was not present at the moment. First of all, I wanted to ask her, since, as an authorised representative, she comes from the party, which I want to talk about, which is in front of us, and it is conditionally said, point 2, that is, the bill on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – the improvement of the JP power grid "Electro Network of Serbia". The reason I want to talk about it is, I guess, logical. The public company "Electro Network Serbia", as well as some other public enterprises, is not only party prey, as I will later show that one party is located in the public enterprise, i.e. representatives of one party are both the director, executive director and chairman of the Management Board, but public enterprises in this country have been losing for a number of years, generally, as opposed to one that has been profiting this country for years, but at the end of 2008, this public enterprise, I am talking about NIS, had a loss of about eight billion dinars. What am I saying that for? Because the current director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Mr. Milos Milankovic, a person who was introduced in 2006, when a gas broker was introduced between Serbia and Russia, was in the position of the director of "Srbigas". At that time, as director of Srbigas, he had a salary of 3,000 euros, and he had 9,000 euros as Vice-President of Jugorosgas. The same gentleman made a statement in November last year: "My salary is rudely high, as director of the "Electro Network of Serbia", compared to what other employees in Serbia receive." Unfortunately, he found such a salary, etc. and says: “I can’t wait for the right decisions to be made in order to be reduced. ” That same Mr. Milankovic did not mind when he had 12,000 euros in income – 9,000 euros, unlike what Minister Skundric claims, in a company that is not owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is "Yugorosgas", and 3,000 euros as director of "Serbigas", but found himself named at the time of the "Kristo" affair, or when it was found that the director of the Airport has paid more than 300,000 dinars. Then he found it important to say that his salary was very high. Like some of my predecessors, I have to express my concern that the state provides guarantees for a public enterprise headed by Mr. Milos Milankovic, who, by his actions, is in the extreme line, and with his responsibility, because he was then the director of "Srbiagas", contributed to the loss of 170m euros today. At that time, 25% of the Jugorosgas company was dropped from the ownership of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. "Serbia", and, as I proved the other day, half of the profits in "Yugorosgas", which amounted to 20m euros, could have been the profits of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Dr Milos Milankovic from G17 Plus, the Management Board, Vidoje Jevremovic, G17 Plus, was a candidate in the 2007 elections, Executive Director for Investments Vladimir Milankov, was a member of the 2004 Executive Board of the G17 Plus Belgrade. To get back to the beginning, which is why I doubt the state is behind these guarantees, that the state will be guaranteed. Because someone with an enormously large salary has ruined a public enterprise, so he is caught in the second position of the director of a public enterprise, and Serbia has to vouch for it. Of course, he's not the only one, we just want to ask a question of responsibility here. When we talked about the railways last time, we asked, "Is someone responsible for what the railroad is in such depth?" Is someone responsible for NIS having such a loss? I must remind you that the current director of the Pannonian Power Plants, Mr Saramandic, was the director of NIS until a few months ago, or 10 months ago. At that time he had a salary of 600,000 dinars, in April 2008, he received a bonus salary and then made, in 2008, a loss of 8 billion, a loss to the head of the Pannonian Power Plants, and nothing to anyone. I think it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, in the interest of the state itself, to think carefully, when the state stands as a guarantee behind some guarantee, which is a public enterprise, which is a man who is the head of the public enterprise. I'm very sorry, I must say, that she's not a minister here, who comes from the same party, I hope that at least she can answer me. Of course I don't expect the Minister of Carbonin to answer these questions. The game of the case has led to everyone being absent; of the 25, or seven invited, there are only four, as you can see, there are six to seven MPs from the ruling majority, including two vice-presidents, although I am undermining, saying these are very important agreements that the state of Serbia needs to ratify. We LDP don't distinguish between countries that are friendly or hostile to us when it comes to these agreements. We believe that all these agreements are bilateral, to improve trade and to improve relations between all these countries with which we make certain agreements bilaterally, i.e. they should be in favour of Serbia itself. So, according to us, there are no hostile countries, or less or more friendly, only relationships between them matter. It has been shown that where we make an agreement or a contract where one percent decides on everything, such as in the case of NIS, friendship is no longer available; there is only interest, and that interest is not on Serbia's side, and that damage is only in favour of Serbia. I'm undermining again, and I'm sorry that none of the government's representatives are here to answer that question. I'd like to beg you, Madam Chairman, without evil intent, only to know who we're talking to here, except for Mr. Ugljanin, who's been sitting here since the beginning, even though he hasn't suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30376	People's MP, I refer you to the Rules of Procedure, to the provisions which determine the way of communication between the government representatives and the MPs. So your question isn't for me, it's for the government's representative. The authorised representative is Minister Suleyman Ugljanin, and he can answer you. It remained in the chair that, in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall ensure the smooth duration of the session. You want a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People's Republic of Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30377	Article 27, Madam Chairman. Please, on my behalf, or I can ask the Minister of Ugljanin himself to tell us who the people who sit behind him are and are almost constantly laughing during the debate in the Assembly. I'm sorry if I got the wrong address. Please, sir, tell us who the associates are, since we have here younger advisors and assistant ministers and state secretarys who are listed, just so we know who the people we're talking to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30378	Mr. MP, no injured member is 27. On the contrary, I make sure that all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are applied as they are written. Please let us all do this, especially when we want to call on the Rules of Procedure, so we should apply the members to whom we call. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word after her, MP Jovan Nesovic. Minister Suleiman Ugljanin wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30379	Here are Gordana Lazarevic, Assistant Finance Minister Zarko Milicevic, Junior Advisor and Mr Stojadinovic, Assistant Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30380	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, after her, MP Jovan Nesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30381	Like my predecessors, I have to say that it's a completely scandalous way for the ruling majority to run the sessions, because today in 26 minutes, I'm speaking on behalf of the DSS, we need to cross 26 laws that are and so important, important agreements are ahead of us, and I think that Serbian citizens need to know what this is all about. The ruling majority is putting us in a position to make priorities between 26 important laws, contracts and verifications, to inform citizens of Serbia. I really had a dilemma about what was so important, so I think that Serbian citizens need to know something about the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation on imports of irradiated nuclear fuel from a research reactor into the Russian Federation. It is a very dangerous situation in which the Serbian government is bringing citizens to Serbia and I think it is the turn for Serbian citizens to know that. By the way, I have to realize that everything I tell the citizens of Serbia today, counselors, associates and, in the end, Mr. Minister cannot give any information about it, confirm or say that I lied to the citizens of Serbia. For a moment, I must draw your attention to 2002, 2003, when, in the then government of Zoran Djindjic, the Minister for Science and Technological Development was Dragan Domazet, who made several scandalous decisions, with several fantastic statements, some of which I will quote later. One of those big decisions was that the Vinci Nuclear Institute was transformed by pulling it out into various small continents, dividing it so it couldn't work. This scandalous decision has caused the disdain of not only the professional public in the SRJ at the time, but also in the world, because in some two or three days 150 scientists from the world who deal with this area have expressed their indignation, as the Nuclear Institute in Vinci and what a position and reputation in the world enjoys. Fortunately, that government fell then, this idea was not fully implemented, but, apparently, in the image of today's government, and indeed in the image of that same Dragan Domazette, this idea is now being completed. The same minister made another very strange decision. At the time, he decided that raw uranium, 48kg of that raw uranium fuel, which the former Yugoslav government bought and stored for large money in Vinca, was returned to the country of origin, the country of origin, which was Russia. At that time, extremely valuable raw materials and strategic material were exported without dinars to Russia, although it was also valuable. What was very important at the time and should have been said, he was then brought in to replace the nuclear fuel exposure that RA reactor in Vinci had used before. So, this uranium material was completely harmless, but very expensive, but the government either didn't know it, or simply, which was very important, it gave Russia no money and no dinars. It was obvious that the government had done so under great pressure, as since 2001 the United States has put great pressure on all countries that had uranium fuel and asked for it to be moved to their countries of origin, to Russia. Of course, the pressure went through the International Atomic Agency in Vienna and it is obvious that our government, under that pressure, had to do so. What happened later, the whole circus about all of this showed that, in fact, the government knew very well what it was about, because the government informed Serbian citizens that it had very good news for them, that it had taken care of their safety and with 1,500 police officers, helicopters (only James Bond was somewhere on the side and did not participate in that big action), moved, returned this fabulously rich raw material to Russia, not trying to negotiate at all. That's what's most important, not trying to negotiate at all, because this material was also a good way to provide funds for the further work of 'Vince', and that, at the same time, it is connected to the agreement, along with the material that we provide for free, related to the nuclear fuel remaining from the Vinca reactor, which has been used and which is dangerous, which remains in Vinci, in warehouses that are bad, which have not been provided well and which poses a danger to the security of Serbia's citizens and today-day poses a danger. So, when the deal on tied trade was not reached then, and it was possible to achieve, on the large resources needed to remove this material, this nuclear waste that remained in Vinci from Russia, the government had no longer had the means to launch it and the project to remove nuclear waste that was dangerous to Serbian citizens, it simply stopped that moment. I must remind the public that former Science and Technological Development Minister Ana Pesikan has signed and made a decision on the Wind project. This project is actually a nuclear decommissioning project in Vinci. He was supposed to have a mission to secure that nuclear waste storage. One part of the money from the international community was then collected and the project started to be implemented, but it was obvious that the priorities were to make bars and fences around the warehouse itself, because, indeed, the hand to heart, it was not adequate and had to be provided at least in this external way. The money was spent and the nuclear waste disposal story stopped, but then the time came for this government to visit a delegation of the International Atomic Agency, which was very important. The delegation asked the Serbian government to take care of what is happening in Vinci with the nuclear waste. The minister who can't say 'no' when it comes to the international community, Bozidar Djelic, who is currently playing the role of Minister for Science and Technological Development, and science has never been in a black position, I think it was necessary to talk about it, since one of the points here was also related to the status of science, then the Serbian citizens informed that the Serbian government would enter into negotiations with the international community that would provide, in part, funds, and our obligation was to raise $25m so that we could participate in the move project. He said he was 23, and now he's missing two more. The truth was completely different. Look at the budget, look at the budget rebalance. Does it exist in the budget, in the budget rebalancing of such an item? It doesn't exist. So the Serbian government had no funds, no funds at all; $25m is a big money for the Serbian government at this time. She had to answer to the international community that she would do this job without providing money, but since she didn't have money, we always have genius ideas. One of these ideas was that the Vinci Nuclear Institute committed itself to making a decision through the Management Board to be in charge of commercial banks, by raising a minimum of $25m loan. Of course, it can't be, because, in accordance with Serbian law, a budgetary institution cannot raise loans, so it presented the possibility that the institute itself would go bankrupt. Then they pressured the Governing Board, which was not allowed to make such a decision, so the people of the Management Board were replaced very quickly. Imagine who two new men came to finish the work the government had come up with? It was Dragan Domazet, mentioned earlier, and his deputy in the period when he was Minister, Radojica Pesic, who today became the director of the company that was singled out from Vinca. So, what was important, they forced the budgetary institution to be in charge to do the job of the Serbian government, which it signed under the international contract. Both the Vinci and the people employed there, and the board of directors didn't want to raise their loans, the Vinci is being punished. First it's torn up, no money for projects, late wages, it's just that there's a need for Vince to die so they can finish their jobs. The summit that DSS MPs warned about when we passed the Law on ionic radiation, our amendment was then rejected, is precisely when this government and this assembly passed, first, a bill of law, and then a passed Law on ionic radiation. We then drew attention to the fact that there was a certain member of 48a, that this article in the original text of that law was not written and that it appeared in a magical way, a very strange interpretation of that law and that article. What does that 48th term mean? He says a public company "Nuclear facilities of Serbia" will be established, with property, funds and at the address "Vince". As it was imagined, that's how it came true. These days, we have before us the whole event, and it is such that the property of 'Vince', the Nuclear Institute, separates the laboratories for protection, reactor technology, and, what's frightening, separates the professional teams, which can't be formed so easily, in five or six months, takes years. That's how the formed teams of this moment are broken. One part of the people succumbed to pressure and retired. The other part of people writes letters to parliamentary groups asking for help, because they obviously do not understand what they are doing or have any other idea, but the idea is not for the benefit of Serbian citizens. So, slowly, what Mr. Domazet has come up with, and otherwise, he came up with this: Serbia is a small country and does not need basic sciences, and applied sciences should pay for the economy. The idea he had at the time with the "Vinche" breaking, unfortunately, is the recorded words, however unserious and incredible they sound, is slowly entering the final stage right now. The company "Nuclear Objects of Serbia" was created. It's interesting that, since it's a public company, it can be owed. Imagine, it's in debt for 25 million euros. It's interesting how it's even registered? It's registered under the wrong operating code. Instead of under code 233-2300, which is the treatment of nuclear waste and the preparation of nuclear fuel, this company is registered under code 90000 – Waste disposal, garbage, sanitary and similar activities. It's amazing. At this point, the company has an employee director, Mr. Radojica Pesic, mentioned here, has a board of directors, has a secretary and no one else. It's supposed to do these kinds of jobs. Perhaps he will do the work of removing waste, garbage, sanitary, and similar activities. What's terrible is that there's still pressure on the employees of the Vinci, and there's still a lot of different ways of breaking the Vinci. Nuclear waste still stands in very insecure conditions. These are the conditions that can lead to an ecological disaster, above all, the city of Belgrade. The government doesn't care, she's watching him make that money. What's very important is that the Minister of Science and Technological Development doesn't show up in public to talk about this, but he shows up at Vinci to harass employees of scientists there. What's scariest is that we have before us this law that says that to implement this law, therefore, to implement this nuclear waste disposal action, and how dangerous nuclear waste, no financial resources are needed. This is amazing, really amazing. Imagine that no financial resources are needed to implement a project like this! It doesn't exist. I deliberately made this introduction because it's obvious that financial resources are needed, that they're $25 million, that they're provided in the way that the government actually tried to trick the local and foreign public, because it said it would participate in the project and that it would invent the waste. I don't want to talk much further about it, I want to remind the MPs to see if there are any separate funds in the budget for this year. I claim they're gone, correct me if I lied. I want to remind MPs and to look at the next budget, for 2010, which has not yet come through the system – we do not know when to come, we have some other, short-term work and things like that, we are getting out in various ways, when it comes, whether the government has provided any means, one single dinar, to show good will, or whether it will relocate its obligations under international contracts to someone else, even if it destroys one such nuclear institute, which is important not only for this country, but it has its place and its reputation in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30382	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, after him, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30383	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, today we have 26 confirmations, which agreement, which certain contracts, and I would like to refer in my presentation to three contracts that are related to the validation of certain investment loans, both in infrastructure and in small and medium-sized enterprises. The first is the law confirming the Treaty on the Guarantee of Vehicles – multi-part electric furniture, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The contract envisions the withdrawal of 100m euros from the European Investment Bank for the purchase of 30 multi-part electric furniture for the improvement of rail traffic, both in freight and passenger transport. What is important to say is that there is no economic development of one country without infrastructure development, both travel and other infrastructures, railways, for example If we are talking about the development of railway infrastructure, it is important to say that the quality of railways must be improved, as well as the quality of railways and the quality of rail services. Here we are talking about the quality of the service, which means significant investments that will go into the domain of improving services. Railway services mean no train cancellation. This means improving the quality of the vehicles, but also increasing the speed of movement of both passenger and freight wagons. This also means increasing cleanliness in passenger wagon cabins, which means defining new facilities to increase the number of passengers that will use railways and increase the amount of cargo transported by Serbia's railways. What is also important is that 80% of the total revenue of the "Serb Railway" comes from freight traffic, and 70% of this freight traffic is waste on international traffic. Therefore, in order to increase revenues, we need to have a very good quality of the vehicle and we need to train the railways to have more speeds. I want to say that it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, together with the Railways of Serbia, has done a very important project this year, which is the production and rehabilitation of railway cars, freight wagons. I come from the city of Kralje, where our car factory has received some new 85 cars that meet all EU standards and developed countries of the world. It's an important thing, for the simple reason that in this way, at a time of crisis, we're saving a commercial being, and that means we're giving a job. On the other hand, at a cheaper price, we get quality freight wagons for our public enterprise. I would like to ask the present minister here and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it will be a crisis year in 2010, to separate funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the production of new contingents of wagons, freight wagons, for the "Serb Railways", and not only to make it a job for the Cars Factory from the Kings, but for all eight companies as many of them now in Serbia are engaged in the production of caterers and passenger wagons. What is also important is that the biggest investments in the "Serb Railways" go to Corridor 10, as well as in the travel economy, but it must also be taken into account for the development of regional rail traffic. In the light of this law, it is defined which are particularly important in terms of regional development of passenger traffic. At first, I said it was a 100m-euro loan, which will buy up to 33 electric furniture. It is important that JP "Serb Railways", under contract, is required to provide a unit that will be in charge of monitoring the implementation of this project. It seems important to me, because MPs have also indicated that the realisation of many projects, or contracts that we have ratified, slowed down, we do not withdraw the funds by dynamics defined by contracts. That's what we're paying for. It seems to me that if you have a special unit within a public enterprise that will be directly in touch with the government and the lender, I expect the whole job to be serious and I expect these 100m euros to be withdrawn by the dynamics provided by the contract itself and there will be no congestion. It is also important that if more investment is invested in Serbia's railways, if the management of the "Serb Railways", the resolution ministry and the government are led to the extent that Serbia's railways are at a level of development that is higher than they are now, it will certainly be a more profitable company, it will not show the losses we now have, and thus it will create the conditions that in the annual plans, the financial plans of the company will also be the payment of these loans that we ratify today, that the guarantee will be a state, the Republic of Serbia, and that only the company in some near future will be able to repay the loans, i.e. the commitments. The second contract is a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EIB related to JP's "Electro Network of Serbia" and concerns rehabilitation and the construction of six trafo stations, as well as the construction of accompanying power lines in the six cities and municipalities. This contract is favourable when viewed as a financial effect, the level of interest rate that burdens it, the grace period and the return time. The value of the contract is 24.5m euros. What needs to be understood is that building these trafo stations will make Serbia's electricity system more stable and quality. We need to take care of the state's withdrawal from the crisis and the increase of economic activity in Serbia's state, the current electricity system is very difficult to withstand. At this point we have to adapt, that we have a system that will at some point be able to accept the higher loads that are related to electricity consumption. This investment is the development of infrastructure in the field of electricity, and I think it's important, perhaps not at this point, but in the future, when there's more electricity consumption, when there's an economy at a higher level of development, of course. Without these investments, we're going to get into a situation where we have certain harassies that can have several days or several hours of stasis. It's devastating by the population and by the economy. The third is the ratification of the Credit Assistance Programme for SMEs through the domestic banking sector and support for regional development through public utility companies. It is an agreement between the RS and the Government of the Republic of Italy. This is a continuation of co-operation started in 2005. Also, in 2005, there was a similar credit line of 33.25m euros. She was withdrawn in the set, through business banks, and what she received from Serbia's economy, relatively small and medium-sized enterprises, is that they could, under favourable conditions, obtain equipment related to the technological process of making their products. It is absolutely certain that only with modern technology and good quality of products can we perform on both the domestic market and the market for developed countries, countries in the environment and countries in Europe. We just have to invest in technology. Our companies have to invest in technology and this is a good example – to use one credit line to achieve their medium- and long-term plans, with an interest rate of around 4,85% highest; if you add that interest that goes towards the creditor plus the part that the National Bank takes, plus the risk through business banks, all of this when you add – 4,85%. About 4.2% is expected at the National Bank. It seems to me that at this point, when business bank loans are looked at, this is much cheaper and that small and medium-sized enterprises, which have found interest in the past, will surely find an interest in taking advantage of opportunities from this credit line. What is an extension from the old credit line is that projects related to agriculture, tourism and local infrastructure can be defined. It is defined that for small and medium-sized enterprises the value of the loan is between 50,000m euros and one million euros, and for local infrastructure, it means public utility companies that want to buy some equipment, some line, something that would improve the quality of their service to citizens at the site, the amount of credit is between 150,000 euros and 2m euros. The state here is just a guarantee. The National Bank is the one through which the whole business will go, i.e. the main executive will be the business banks that are operating in Serbia today and will likely be the same banks that were for the first line of credit. It seems unfortunate to me that 710,000 euros is a donor part, approximately, which will provide support for the realization of this project. It's something we won't return. It is important to say that the duration of this loan is 13 years, the repayment period of seven years, the beginning is, what we call grace period, about five years and the interest rate at the annual level will be what the NB announced, 4.25%. I was able to get that off the Internet. If you add what's defined, it's 4.85%. You'll see what that interest rate will be. Certain commitments that are made here, by forming a joint board of directors to monitor the implementation of the whole job, by forming a devoting fund with the Ministry of Finance, I don't think it's some big business that will interfere very quickly with the withdrawal of these funds, and then small and medium-sized enterprises and local self-government get the possibility that through the banking sector, under these conditions, for their own reasons, small businesses can buy some equipment that will give quality products, that by selling that product they can create liquidity, or income, that they can return uninterrupted. These companies, local self-government, or public utility companies, can buy lines that will cost their services, not reduce, but improve quality through a cheaper service and, ultimately, save from those funds to return to the Ministry of Finance, or the lender, funds to be provided. Viewing all three agreements and that all these things are related to investments both for infrastructure and for small and medium-sized enterprises, or municipal enterprises, considering all other agreements that are on the agenda today, which relate to better linking Serbia's state to countries in the environment and countries not in the environment, as well as bilateral relations, certain duty-free matters, economic co-operation and other forms of co-operation, the G17 plus in voting day will support all these agreements and these laws and we call on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30384	This concludes work in the morning part of the session. I'm setting a break that will take up to 15.05 hours. We begin the afternoon, or continue in order of the MPs, according to the application for the word. The first reported is MP Zoran Ostojic, after him, MP Dragan Stevanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that today, in accordance with Article 85, we will be working until the end of the agenda, which will be at 18 o'clock, at 16 o'clock on the agenda. I'm sorry, 18 o'clock, and I need to inform you by 16 o'clock, which I'm doing. Mr. Zoran Ostojić is not here. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic is not here. Mr Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30386	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have several draft laws on the approval of contracts, agreements and protocols, however, I would like to stick to the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was signed on 8 May 2009. With this contract, the bank approves a 100m-euro loan for the railway vehicle procurement project, more specifically, electric furniture. The bank approves of the JP "The Railways of Serbia" loan under the following conditions. The duration of the loan is 15 years, including a grace period of four years. Then, the loan payment would take place in 22 half-years of war, the fee on the undrawn part of the loan is 0.5% per year and the interest rate is EURIBOR plus 1% margin, with the variable, with the interest rate fixation option. I find it very important that this contract and JP "Serb Railways" accept certain obligations, which are: making and adopting a business plan for each business unit, introducing a cost-setting methodology for each segment of passenger traffic activity, then, the accounts must at any time comply with international standards for financial reporting. Finally, as very important, the Public Undertaking of the "Serb Railways" will form a unit for the implementation of this project. Railway traffic is a very complex technical and technological system that has the characteristics and legality that rule in complex systems. For the development of one country and individual regions, rail traffic plays a significant role and it must function coherently to fulfil the task set. It is required to carry out the role of transporting passengers and goods from one place to another, but at minimum cost. In recent years, rail traffic has shown a number of weaknesses that are negatively reflected on the railway itself, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the users of its services. For this reason, every investment initiative is looking forward to the railway capacity. The railway system, as a subsystem in the traffic system, belongs to those branches characterised by strong integration processes in terms of technical, technical and technological organisation of traffic. It according to the organisational structure and functionality of its parts falls into tight, complex systems. The characteristics of the other transport branches give it three types of transport capacity – the railway, as a traffic route, with all the following facilities, signal-safe facilities and connection systems, then tow and tow capacity, there is thought of locomotives, freight cars and in this part we also think of these electric furnitures which are today, and, in the end, the cellular technical capacity. Given the fact that in the previous period one of the biggest problems in the functioning of Serbian railways was the lack of locomotives and wagons, the purchase of these electric furniture promises to improve the quality of rail services. Given the characteristics of such furniture and the fact that it will primarily be used to transport passengers on regional routes, this kind of procurement, through better integration within the region, but also by connecting with the capital, will affect faster and more even regional development. I am particularly pleased that a number of these furniture will carry passengers on the Belgrade-Bar track, more specifically on the Belgrade route, i.e. The truth, the vervain. The verbnica is the end stop on the Serbian stretch of the railway from Belgrade to Bar. Also, I expect that the number of these sets that will be allocated in individual directions will also reflect the economic and numerical indicators of passenger transport in those directions. Statistics say that in 2008, at Belgrade-Vrbnica, 545,151 passengers were transported and 186,187,996 dinars were made of them. The comparisons, due to the next revenue-level direction, are Belgrade-Sotatica, which has brought revenue to the "Serbian Railways" of 142,32,011 dinars. It is important that only two pairs of passenger trains and one pair from Užica to Vrbnica traffic during 24 hours to Vrbnica from Belgrade. Due to the poor condition of passenger cars, a few trains are often missing. Also, the defects of the locomotive are common, as well as the exclusion of the wagon on the road due to malfunctions, so the time of travel is significantly extended. On Fridays and Sundays, it's very difficult to travel these trains because of huge crowds, and many passengers fail to get on the train. Given that Belgrade-Vrbnica, by the number of passengers transported and income achieved, is at the very top of Serbian railways, I expect that the number of furniture that will be allocated to the new direction will reflect that. There's been a lot of talk in the past few months about investing in the rail line on Corridor 10. I fully support such a policy and there are clear reasons for this. However, the latest investment in the Belgrade-Bar railway is also looking forward to taking into account its position and strategic importance. It particularly promises a joint initiative by the government of Italy, the Republic of Montenegro, as well as the Serbian government. The Belgrade track -- Bar includes a wide-ranging area, with a large number of users, as well as data on the volume of work on the loading, unloading goods in the Uzica goods transport section, which covers part of the railroad belonging to Serbia. In 2008, 1,362.334 tonnes of goods were loaded in the Užica section, which is less than the load in the Požarec section for only 17,000 tonnes of goods, and this is a reminder section covering 'US Steel'. In third place is the Lapovo section, with a far smaller load of 496 tonnes of 314.000. As far as unloading is concerned, the quantity in 2008 was 526,341 tonnes. What's the impact of buying electromagnetic trains on freight, on goods traffic? In a very difficult situation in the railways, there is a manifest lack of locomotives, which are currently transported not only by freight trains, but also by passenger trains. By buying these electromagnetic sets, we'll get a certain number of free locomotives, which will be defined for the transport of goods. Its interest in investment in the Belgrade railway - Bar has Europe as well. Part of the transit from the western part of Bulgaria and Romania and the southeastern part of Hungary is gravitating towards the railway. I will remind you that the only link, the railway link, Albania towards Europe, is the Belgrade-Bar railway. It is also known the impact of the Bar port itself on the transport flows, as well as the interest of our government in it. I am sure that taking loans for the purchase of electric furniture is a good move and that it is only the beginning of more serious investment in Serbian railways. On the other hand, I expect only the Serbian Railways company will find the right model of the organisation, reform itself, become competitive on the transport services market and a significant economic development entity in Serbia. In the voting day, the G17 Group of MPs will vote in favour of this and the other laws that are at this point in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30387	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30388	Thank you, President. My attention has been drawn by colleagues and colleagues, of these 26 certification laws, to the draft law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime under the agreement between the Government of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation since 28 February 2000. This protocol, which is becoming a law, signed by Minister Šojgu and Deputy Prime Minister, first Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Mr Dacic, in August of this year essentially reduces the number of products prohibited from exporting to Russia without customs duties, i.e. The number of goods excluded from the customs regime is reduced. What's important is what's left in that regime? For what is customs duty, which are the products that make it difficult to export to Russia? Of course the Russian Federation is a big country. Most of you in this room feel that our relationships are developing well, we think they're a little one-sided, in their favor, and to our harm, but time will show who's right. In any case, this agreement, with the speed of our Euro-Atlantic integration, will go into history, because when we get to the EU door at one point, we will have to adopt rules that apply there, and agreements that do not comply with EU policy will not be able to apply. But there is time to do so, and so I think it's good that our country, our economy, take advantage of this duty-free regime. However, the figures show that we are unable to use it. It is indisputable that we can hardly ever have a surplus in relations with Russia simply because of Serbia's dependence, as well as most of Europe, on Russian gas and oil. What can we take out there? Somehow, it seems to us that by shortening this list of exceptions, there are many exceptions that we can only essentially sell outside. I'm not going to talk about the fact that passenger cars stayed on this list. This means that passenger cars cannot be exported to Russia without customs duty. That's what we were talking about at the time this contract was signed. And I'm not going to talk about what one of the arguments for the entry of the Fiat is, I'm talking about the entry of the Fiat into the flag of Kragujevac, which lasts, and who knows how long it will take after this fire, either as we have a duty-free regime with Russia. He doesn't apply to cars. It's almost strange that he doesn't apply to meat, that he doesn't apply to white sugar, that he doesn't even apply to brandy. It's very strange that it doesn't apply to wooden kitchen furniture, wooden furniture for bedrooms and other wooden furniture. Because, what, objectively, Serbia produces? Rakiu, that's doubtless, wooden furniture, no doubt, and cars, if God will. But the list that exists and for which customs is paid is, in our opinion, a list that makes it impossible for Serbia to achieve better results in trade with Russia. That's why we think our government, when we're already growing this kind of relationship with Russia, when the Russian president was already the only president who spoke in this house, should make a greater effort in the future to get this goods for which customs are now being paid off the regime. It's just, if we're going to be friends, if we're going to do everything here to raise the economy, so to speak, reindustrize the country, start with what we know we produce, what we produce, and what we have tradition in. The opening of the Russian market for these products would mean the development of the economy. The next day, in the form of a parliamentary issue, I will try to find out why something that is traditional Serbian products is not in the visa-free regime, but remains in this visa-free regime. Taking off customs duties for slaughterhouse products, for medicines, is a good thing, but I think a much bigger effect would be if some of these products came into visa-free mode. Let me repeat, I don't mean here, primarily, on cars, because it looks like we're going to be waiting for "Zunta", i.e. "Punta" from "Zavata", but wooden furniture, carpets, meat, sugar and brandy, I guess we're able to take that to Russia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30389	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30390	Thank you. Yet I was able to find one common denominator for these 26 points that were united in today’s congregation debate. If nothing else, it is about the continuation of the economic policy resulting from the new 154m euros in debt. Many talk and discuss Serbia's borrowing due to all these loans, loans, which we sign or are about to sign, so they should not be surprised at the latest data from the finance ministry that said at the end of September that the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 10 billion euros and that it was a billion and 127m euros higher than in late September last year. In translation, the government of the Republic of Serbia is increasing public debt per day by just over three million euros. In doing so, this data did not include the first IMF tranche of over 780m euros, which would additionally amount to about 2m euros on this total debt. Of course, there aren't any of those announced loans from the Russian Federation, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, China, etc. Certainly, they would increase the daily average by about six-sevenm euros. The main growth in debt occurred right on the internal ground, where it has increased by 582m euros since the end of September last year, and indirect commitments have increased by 461m euros, while it is conditionally said to be a clean external debt of 84m euros. The share of public debt in GDP increased, from 25.6% in 2008, to 32% at the end of September, when these data were updated. This means that it counts with a GDP of 31 billion euros this year, which is exactly 10% lower than it was in 2008. Now the question arises – is this too big or too small a public debt? Was it used purposely or not? Like external debt, public debt can be found to be solvable but inequitable, which was the case when the payment-balance crisis broke out in the former Yugoslavia in 1982. We have pointed out several times in the SRS Parliamentary Group, but without greater effect than those in charge of policymaking. This fundamental problem in liquidity is, above all, because Serbia has small foreign incomes, and when such small foreign exchange revenues are faced with sudden foreign exchange outflows, it leads to bigger problems in operation, as they are right now. But what is a crucial problem is that the political and business elite in Serbia either ignored or did not want to understand the real state of the domestic, Serbian economy in the right way. For example, prominent American economists Karin Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff published two observed studies last December that systematicise experiences and present a number of rather disturbing and devastating data regarding the growing financial crises over the last years. "The analyses show that the crises were followed not by the slowdown of growth, but by the decline of GDP. On average, the decline lasts about two years and GDP decreases by more than 9%. During the crisis, there is a huge growth in public debt, which in three years after its outbreak increases on average by about 86%. The average duration of the crisis on the market is at least three years, and the cumulative loss is moving around 60% of their value. In these periods, unemployment is growing continuously, on average, for five years, significantly longer than the duration of the recession itself. During that period, unemployment increased further by 7% compared to the level before the crisis began. Today's economic situation is potentially even more dangerous, as all the crises so far have been, mainly, local or regional character and there have always been larger parts that have not been affected and that have been able to absorb surpluses of goods and provide capital in vulnerable countries. This time this space is drastically narrowed down and the crisis is really global for the first time. ''It is very dangerous to believe that this data, i.e. this analysis, cannot be applied to Serbia, because Serbia is not only the victim of another's crisis, it, as well known, is not sufficiently integrated into the system of the global economy. Serbia, thanks, among other things, to what we're talking about today, and what's been a reflection of what's been going on in the last decade, is going through a classic own pay-as-you-go crisis, a crisis that threatens to turn into a currency and, of course, gets an epithet of the debt crisis. Genesis and the causes of such a situation still obviously do not reach economic actors in Serbia, because, above all, when the business elite asks for the state to be in charge to continue with a policy of maintaining the course of dinars, then, in fact, continues in continuity with an economic policy that practically destroys Serbia. Can anyone really believe that the IMF, which has been said about here today, will borrow money from any state, hence, and Serbia, in order to save the owners of over-indebted or re-invested domestic empires? Everyone is well aware that crises are sometimes deliberately caused, or at least are strengthened, to change these local business empires to the owners. What is the problem is that the state of Serbia today has very little space to affect the crisis it has been in and for it is, mainly, through all the measures it has taken so far, especially through this way of leading economic policy, obviously too late. At the worst of the day, we're facing these bill proposals and all the other accompanying acts, because it's obvious that we have to do what we haven't done so far, which is to live exclusively from what is earned. In the event that Serbia remains in a state of some permanent crisis, it is clear that the rest of the world will come out of it, and we, precisely because of what we do and how we behave, will not succeed. The data is also devastating. You have official data from the Republic Statistics Office, where production in the first nine months of the current year was 15% lower than in the same period in 2008, precisely because all loans, loans taken by the state of Serbia were not rationally used, because if they were, we probably wouldn't be in this situation where we are now, or we would be recording certain economic activity. The unemployment rate wouldn't be as high as it is. It is difficult to answer the question of where, or where, tens of billions of dollars of loans were taken, as well as revenues from the sale of state property over the past ten years. For the last year, only the current account balance deficit covering all non-credit foreign exchange flows has increased by 70%. Foreign exchange outflows thus exceeded foreign foreign exchange inflows on all grounds, including immigration figures, by nearly $5 billion. In the same period, the trade balance deficit, the most important components of the current account balance, increased by 44%. This translates into that each month, Serbia imports about a billion dollars in goods and services more than it exports. All these negative flows reflect Serbia's external debt, which has increased by about 42% over the past year and is now about $30 billion, or around 21 billion, equivalent to this figure. There have been unpleasant and negative experiences, but it is obvious that transition countries, where Serbia is now included, have not drawn what is most instructive and important when it comes to the experiences of the major economic crisis that hit Southeast Asia in 1997 and 1998. The crisis was also related to the borrowing of the private sector. So, all the problems that arise are the result of one continuous balance of payments deficit and external debt growth and in such an environment, which is precisely the environment in Serbia today, the fate of the state is exclusively in the hands of foreign creditors and hangs at the end of their willingness to, possibly, stimulated by certain high interest rates, provide an inflow of capital that the economy is used to. When, for any reason, the economic, political, inflow of these loans, i.e. the cash mass slows down, or stops, it is clear that there is a situation like this, i.e. a crisis that is manifested in the first step as payment and currency, as is the situation in Serbia. A reduced credit inflow and a rapid increase in capital outflow lead to an excessive and uncontrollable fall in domestic currency, and it can seem very little further. The currency crisis then grows into debt, and everyone gets hurt, and those debtors who used the loans rationally. The problem is that we are witnesses, and we in the SRS Parliamentary Group are particularly apostrophe, and here today, within this abundance of the bill, and the law amending the IMF Statute, that the state of the domestic economy, as is the order in the countries of transition democracy, is mainly informed by foreigners, once a year. And we're here on the occasion that, courtesy of the IMF, we get a chance to deal with something more seriously with the results of our own economy. The IMF, which is obviously always welcomed here as some savior, and it is clear, by the results, or effects they are accomplishing, that it is far from that, warns of the danger associated with this particular problem, with the huge deficit of the current balance and the growth of external debt. It is clear that if these trends continue, even according to the same IMF, the balance of payments deficit will remain high and external debt will continue to grow rapidly. When it comes to famous IMF experts, they also feel that monetary policy should not be changed, i.e. everything is fine. Exports do not mind course, but unstructured enterprises and inadequate wage growth. The thesis is very interesting; whatever course it is, its effects on exports are neutral. The IMF had this attitude in the case of Argentina, and most of you are probably aware of the epilogue it's all been, or Argentina has had a complete financial breakdown. Therefore, all the measures recommended by the IMF are aimed at reducing budget spending and speeding up restructuring, privatisation or bankruptcy of remaining public and social enterprises. A reduction in state expenditure is proposed, raising the budget surplus to between 2% and 3% compared to n GDP. The consequences of such a policy were discussed by more colleagues, Dejan Mirovic. This should take some time until the fruits of structural reforms are harvested, as they say, but given that Serbia has been structurally reformed for years, it will not bother to wait a few more years to begin at least by picking up these fruits from the many reforms we face. After all, we can also look at countries in the environment, as both Poles and Romanians and Bulgarians and others believe in this abundantly and successfully, but on markets across Western Europe. So for all economic problems, regardless of the causes, the IMF always offers only one and a universal cure – reducing budget spending. It is difficult to interpret whether the measures of this international financial institution are economically or ideologically motivated, because Serbia is clearly where it is because it has listened too much to others and has relied on this neoliberal doctrine, which the IMF is promoting. We had the opportunity to read the World Bank's report recently, another one mentioned in the circle of those financial institutions that should make Serbia better, but there's nothing. It refers to the article "To Do More, With Less", which was just written by World Bank Office Director in Belgrade Simon Grey, on the grounds that the Serbian Finance Ministry has applied for the World Bank to help Serbia reduce public sector costs, in a way that will not affect the quality of services. The result is a publication that analyses all these important parts of public expenditure, as Mr Gray points out, such as pensions, health, education, social giving, infrastructure, agriculture and industry. Remember how the World Bank thinks it should be done? I don't need to remind you that this brilliant solution was to remove 11,000 departments, 37% of all primary schools, and 13% of all secondary schools. It is unusual that these World Bank analysts did not see any small matter, that, for example, in the Serbian budget, there are 4.1 billion dinars, or 44m euros a year for donations to various NGOs, and that this is more than for economic subsidies, because 3.5 billion is a student standard, 1.7 – a student standard, 3.2 – a fund for young talent, only 0.4 – for refugees and displaced persons, etc. With such reforms and such a way of policymaking in this country, we have already convinced ourselves, the Army has been reformed, by destroying those 1,200 anti-aircraft missiles of a type of arrow, cutting 700 tanks into old iron, and reducing the number of aircraft in an annual state to only two. The World Bank and the IMF often come together towards small countries whose governments seek loans. These institutions are a kind of stockholder society, in which the United States has the largest quota, and that's about 16% in the World Bank. While the IMF provides loans providing foreign liquidity, the World Bank borrows money to secure internal liquidity. These institutions condition their loans by requiring them to be given in wars, so that after each war they have the right to require the land of the borrower to conduct an economy and society. Thus, practically, by lending to a government, the IMF and the World Bank become one of its guardians and, in fact, manage the country. Specialisation of the IMF is a financial and monetary sphere, the World Bank, its 'credits', most often finance education, health care, state administration reform, etc. The World Bank in Serbia has already financed a reform of the judicial system, and an epilogue that will include the dismissal of about 700 judges. When it comes to the division of the debt, the World Bank is also now under the funding of the reform of education, which I was talking about. The consequences of our borrowing and co-operation with such international financial institutions will not only be that in the future we will have to earn everything as a society to pay off debts with interest, but that our creditors will also get the long-term right to manage this society. International officials, primarily from the financial sphere, will decide, likely, on Serbian taxes, and on pensions, social benefits, but also on education, health, science, culture and everything else. Then we probably won't have a problem with adopting the bill to confirm the Convention on International Exhibitions, as Serbia will, unfortunately, be an example of a country that has been systematically destroyed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30391	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30392	Thank you, Madam President. Of these many conventions, agreements, draft laws, I would like to say a few words about an agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the People's Republic of China on scientific and technological co-operation in April this year. With the entry into force of this new agreement, the agreement signed in 1995 on scientific and technological co-operation will cease to apply, and then the SRJ government signed the deal. Apparently, we have a long history of co-operation with China in this area. The two governments signed an agreement because they are determined to strengthen bilateral friendly relations and to encourage and improve scientific and technological co-operation between the two countries, so this agreement is practically a common legal framework for this type of co-operation. China is a respectable world force in every respect, including in terms of scientific and technological development, and China is an extremely important partner for Serbia both earlier and today. Article 2 of this Agreement discusses the development of various forms of scientific and technological co-operation. The exchange of researchers, exchange of information, organisation of joint seminars and training, joint research and is also discussed direct co-operation between the two countries' scientific and technological institutes. It also states in Article 5 that foreign parties will encourage and support long-term scientific and technological co-operation between the research institutions and the organisations of the two countries in accordance with national legislation. That the People's Republic of China recognized the importance of science for the development of economy and society, that's for sure. Unfortunately, however, it cannot be said that the government of the Republic of Serbia and that the Ministry of Science and Technological Development recognise the importance of science for the development of Serbia's economy and society. When this government was formed, a multitude of promises could be heard. Among other things, the Minister for Science and Technological Development said that Serbia needs to double the number of researchers compared to the number of inhabitants, i.e. if we want to be a member of the EU, then the relationship between the number of researchers and the total number of inhabitants must be much better. At this point, there are only 14 scientists per 100,000 people in Serbia, i.e. researchers and by these parameters, unfortunately at the bottom of the scale, when it comes to Europe. Minister Djelic, who is happy to make various promises, has also pledged that the 2009 science secessions will be 0.6% of the gross national product. But what do we actually have in 2009? We have a gross-national science product of only 0.28%, which is significantly less than in 2008, when science is also inadmissible, only 3.80%. If we compare this to, for example, Sweden, which stands out 4.2% or Denmark, which stands out 2.4% or even to Slovenia, which stands out 1.5%, then it is also clear by these parameters at this time that Serbia is also a state that is also an inaccessible little state for the development of science. In 2006, it was said that people who do science are well remembered, that by 2011 there will be an increase in the separation for science and that by 2011-2012 the singles should be 1% of gross national income. For the first time since 2000, scientists are late for several months, and it is also happening that individual institutes in time or don't even get the money to participate in various international projects that they already participate in. What is the government's attitude towards science is best seen from the relationship to the “Vinca” Nuclear and Scientific Institute or the “Tarlak” Institute. The problems encountered by this institute were also discussed by my colleague from the parliamentary group, so I will not enter all these details, but these days, it seems to me, that the situation at the Institute has come to light because the government, by its decision several months ago, founded the Public Enterprise "Nuclear Objects of Serbia". Employees at Vinci interpret it as an attempt by the state to tear up this renowned institute. In fact, “Vinca” has kept a large amount of highly radioactive waste for years in very poor conditions. Well, if the state signed several protocols to carry that dangerous fuel out of the country and transport it to Russia, it never happened because they never provided funds for it. In fact, this procedure requires special protection measures and precise, very expensive equipment. Even a project called VIND, abbreviations, was developed, and it actually refers to a nuclear de Commission programme at the Institute. The problem is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not provided funds in the budget for the implementation of the project. It's practically the first stage in the whole process. Pressed by international obligations, the government of the Republic of Serbia requires the Institute itself to be in charge of commercial banks and that I am the Institute which is a budgetary institution to raise a loan to commercial banks at $25m sum, as estimated to cost the entire process of removing this radio-active waste. At that time, the board of directors and the scientific council refused, of course, thinking as the Institute, or as a budgetary institution, that if they are in charge of this sum, it automatically means the practical bankruptcy of this institute. The government, however, has found the legal opportunity to establish the JP "Nuclear Objects of Serbia" and this public company is in the process of raising, I repeat, a $25m commercial loan. In order not to make citizens or you in this room think that I belong to some lobby because I'm talking about this, that's not true, but I'm thinking logically, that if you want to reform or transform an institution, that's why you need the support of people who work in that facility, and at this point the government of the Republic of Serbia has used force and, in the opinion of employees, a piece of Vinch, takes away property and does very bad things. We have signed a protocol on the long-term co-operation of various institutes from Serbia and China, however, I am afraid, if this attitude towards science and institutes in Serbia continues, that perhaps in a few years we won't even have respectable institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30393	Thank you. The MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30394	I will continue my presentation by repeating the question: for what reasons does the Government, together with those who create such a agenda in the Assembly, raise 26 points in the debate of five hours, when the consequences of these laws cannot be hidden, especially those I speak of, and these are two guarantees? One weighs 100m euros, the other weighs 24.5m and a loan from the Italian government to help small and medium-sized enterprises weighs 30m euros. We want to admit it or not, to explain it, not to explain it, it will sooner or later be shown as a commitment that needs to be settled out of the budget and to account the citizens for it. It simply seems completely unwarranted to me that this race with time, a race with the reputation of the Assembly, and a lack of respect for the MPs themselves to discuss these topics. To illustrate this, two of my colleagues who had previously spoken, of this haste and the need to say something else, were wrongly addressed as a guarantee to the European Investment Bank, and this is about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The proof that he's running through this is, I believe, the recent story of Spain's choice as the most favourable in the delivery of trams. I will remind my colleagues that in May, we passed a law, confirmed a debt agreement with the government of Shapnia, which is similar to that of Italy, where we owed 45m euros indicatively, we received a million euros in grants for a project of profitability of this kind of debt. What I'm talking about today is that at the time we agreed to this credit line of this country and these republics finance exports of brand-new Spanish goods and services, 15% of the amount of loans could have been domestic goods and services and 15% from third countries. What does that have to do with the choice of trams from Spain? I don't want to elaborate now. This kind of concessional loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and public utility companies is also the one from the Italian government. They also finance the export of their goods, as two years ago praises the German state's efforts to finance the export of its industrial goods through KFV Bank and there is nothing against them. On the contrary, the Italian and Spanish governments should be commended, but where our Government is, for example, accepting a loan from the Italian government, the same principle – 30m euros again is a loan, 707,000 is a grant for a cost-effectiveness project, etc., where it now says: "70% of each procurement contract will be used to finance the purchase of goods and services from the Republic of Italy". What is interesting and should remind us that we have done a complete deindustry of the economy of this country, is a point of 8.5 of this agreement, where it says that the line of concessional credit cannot be used for domestic taxes, customs duties and VAT, and this means indirectly that it cannot use it to have a budget, that it cannot be used to finance commercial enterprises, lease companies, insurance companies and financial enterprises, and that it cannot be used for investments in recreational activities, gambling and housing. So, all praise the intentions and efforts of the Italian government to finance the export of its production technologies and thus force its industry, but where the Republic of Serbia, its concern about the economy and the development of the domestic industry, let the citizens evaluate. Do you gentlemen think that someone can understand the last "officer" has been issued a decision to set up a new agricultural professional service of the Cup? She's not the only one. A recent agricultural professional service of Novi Pazar has been established with advisory services, as well as agricultural production in primary production, fruit farming, vegetables, even agricultural production exports, but not in the field of veterinary services. Is this really for Ripley? The government called for the basis of the Business Society Act. I can't just read the Business Society Act, so the government can set up agricultural professional services, and until a month ago we privatized some kind of state-owned institution, which was veterinary organisations. Today you start with money and government funds to privatize them tomorrow. Until yesterday, we privatized what was founded earlier. Does the government even know what he does? What's her concept? Is all the resources she has put into operation or do we really need to believe that this is a cheap loan? I have to spend the rest of my time really just using the story of this government going the easiest way, which is to put a signature on the contract. Although it was possible to take part in the euphoria of 2001 in some short - sighted expectation that everything would go nicely, easily, and quickly, today is no longer possible. I am talking about the guarantee we give to the European Investment Bank for the improvement of Serbia's electricity network. Before I proceed to the specific details of this loan, since this type of guarantee begins with 24,500,000 guarantees, given that the bank concluded the framework agreement on 13 December 2001 with the European Investment Bank for Development, Mrs Lazarevic was then present, or directly involved in paraphrasing this agreement, the framework in which the European Investment Bank was given space to here as a bank which, I cannot say, is non-profit, but low-profit because it goes to small differences between the price of money in purchase and placement, and in order to develop, to encourage the development of countries that are not yet in the EU. In 2001, we were one of those countries. The European Community has guaranteed the European Investment Bank what it invests in us. I really understand the need to guarantee at that time until the country's trust is acquired in rather difficult conditions for it, in terms of political and economic, that the funds it receives from that bank will be returned, but what you signed in December and agreed to today, when you proposed a new framework agreement under which the European Bank's investment here places funds, difficult. I'll read to the citizens, to my surprise, in 2001 I didn't get a chance to see this, now I've had the opportunity to get to know the terms of this framework agreement, so I want to present to the citizens what it really looks like. The European Investment Bank brings these framework agreements to protect its own rights in these projects, as well as the right to privileges for the bank. It means that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I read Article 2, the bank can freely carry out the activities provided for in its statute, but not only lends loans, meaning not only on lending under the laws and regulations of the Republic, but also on the national financial market it appears as someone who takes the funds and requires it under conditions not less favourable than least or, at least, as they say, state authorities. That means they can access those securities of values that now compete with each other, and the National Bank is placed on the financial market. I wonder when they'll buy 11% of their assets and who they'll place them with a little bit of their extra margin. I don't even find it controversial, as a citizen of Serbia, that they can access those funds. Do you know what's controversial? That everything they're earning, everything they buy, staying and working here, is tax-free, is freed from looking at paper. Citizens of our employees, foreigners working with them, have absolute diplomatic immunity and privilege of being listed in the new framework agreement as being protected from arrest and detention, which is completely unreasonable to me. I don't dispute the right of someone to ask for whatever comes to mind, but did someone in accordance with the State Aid Control Act account for how much this bank's loans really cost, if what they're earning is tax-free. I'm talking about income as interest. I also have one opinion issued in 2007, where what was, however, undeniable, not to be taxed under Article 40 is indeed confirmed. The VAT law. Is it possible, is it anywhere in a country, that an organisation is seeking to be freed, not search, but to look at business documentation, that it expects that the transfer of funds can immediately convert any currency at any time and into any account abroad and that there are no limits to it? What's that worth? It is truly unreasonable for the European Investment Bank, because when you allow someone such a privilege, anyone who comes here next will seek such a privilege. What's particularly interesting to me? Why didn't you learn from them and apply that one single sentence in the memory-processing project to your actions as Government? They say it is necessary to preserve the project's ability to generate income that is necessary, to service the debt created in connection with the project. Why didn't this government preserve the ability of the economy to pay taxes, not to have countless blocked companies, and why didn't you, as a government, preserve the employment of citizens by measures of economic policy, at least to some extent that they could live decently, pay taxes, because what else is a project and what is beyond what is called employment, a man and a state that provides protection in every way possible? Participation in public competitions is tireless. Tax treatment is totally controversial. Privileges and immunity are unreasonable, I say even harder than those signed in 2001. Perhaps my young colleagues from the Democratic Party will find it interesting that in Article 9. - resolving disputes over the bank's activities, says the Republic of Serbia has pledged to ensure that the courts of the Republic of Serbia are authorised to recognise a final decision that does not have the right to appeal, including the court of justice of the European Communities or any national court of a Member State of the European Community and to ensure that any such decision is implemented. I really don't know if you think it's papers that nobody reads. Are these empty letters without weight? If they did, they wouldn't be asked for their ratification in this home, because behind this is the state, no matter how many 26 dots you have, they're narrowing down the space and they're trying to get you over what we're talking about. What is interesting is, the entry into force of the next day and the agreement is concluded on an unlimited deadline, although the previous deadline, the one from 2001, was published in March 2002, and yet a new one may be sought, and there may be one interesting thing there, that this framework agreement is expected to be valid until December 2013, until December 31st, so some of it may have drawn, I hope, the good news that since 1 January, for example, 2014 we can count on the presence and membership of that EU. What is accusing of you, as a government, is that you have not tried, for example, to enter the Croatian Assembly site and see how they, even in 2004, one of these guarantees to the European Investment Bank represents when they ask for consent to borrowing, or guarantee. In 2000, they signed one such framework agreement, yet in 2004 they go to their MPs with 17 stops of explanations, where they start with when and how, and after the breakup, they are regulated, we do not and do not know, how institutional basis of co-operation has been established and how much the agreement has been signed so far with the European Investment Bank, how many public and how many private loans, how many private banks or possibly natural persons, which are in preparation that are long-term, which have been used, we can speculate and assume, and then you get angry and tell your structures. To explain what the law wants to achieve, it writes what the project covers, which type of work, precisely, this is about one road, building a route, it will start then, there are projects, the last tranche will be completed, and that year, the loan approved for so many years with grace period, interest and others. No, in your guarantee of 24,500 million euros, do you know what it says? Maybe you didn't see the paper you brought us. Now I'm going to read to you -- the estimated amount of funding needed to implement the law writes -- an estimate of the amount, called the head, for the implementation of this law will be provided in the RS budget. So we're asking you -- how much money is it going to take for this project, and you're saying, yes, it's going to take money. That's how you talk to us, Serbian citizens. What kind of answer you expect is your business. You don't explain how much this is costing the state right now if the power grid meets its obligations properly. You don't say how many loans we have, whether we're late, what the interest is, how much of it has really been covered here or not since 2009. No, you don't think these are serious things, that this law does not produce serious consequences, and I assume that you treat the law that way, although this guarantee says that all costs known, common and those that can arise are the subject of a guarantee and it is a condition for issuing and continuing validity for the use of the basic loan. Did you regulate your relationship with the public company "Electro Network of Serbia" in accordance with these rather hard conditions? In what situation are you really in control of the dedicated use of the funds you guarantee here, or are we going through an affair or some pre-election arrest to find out that someone has been using money from these projects? In Article 9 of this Act, the anodeees are, in this framework agreement, Art. The 9th and 8th is about security and information and what's particularly interesting, I announced in my first explanation, is that I don't know what you deserve, it may be general terms, but I don't know, harder terms to get credit. In Article 5, they are undeniably more difficult for us as a state. The bank has regulated this member earlier, I am talking about the European Investment Bank, regulated the suspension of payment obligations, and now regulates the protection of banks that try and strengthen their positions, so he says he has no reason to think about any type of borrowing burden if his obligations are increased, because you are the first guarantee, is not obliged to give you, is not obliged to submit reports to the guarantor, RS, on the progress of the project, on the financial position of the borrower or any means of security. So, the RS doesn't need to know by whoever's giving the money or if there's a report on the use of funds, what kind of financial situation or trouble the borrower is in. No, the state of Serbia only has to guarantee at any moment the known and possible obligations that can be related to this guarantee. Clearly, the guarantee has to do it itself, monitor the financial situation and take care of who it guarantees. Do you have that mechanism? Did you tell us you owned it? Are you even worried about that? No, descriptive sentences, written essays, high school, beautiful, accurate. What I'm saying -- the difficult conditions are that in Article 2 of the guarantees were so far not until 2007, July of the month, they weren't like that. Since October, you may not have given in general terms, so I don't know, you're vouching as the primary debtor in the capacity of the embassies, not just the approval of the bailiff, unconditionally and irrevocably. Whatever comes to mind of the RS, it's rich, and I wonder how far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30395	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the citizens of Serbia who are following this session of the National Assembly to repeat that 26 united agendas are currently under discussion. The Rules of Procedure shall be allowed to merge discussions at certain points which are interlinked. However, the merger of the debate on the proposals of the law on the confirmation of 26 contracts of a wide variety of content only speaks of the aim being to deny to the MPs the opportunity to say everything they should, because there is only so much time as is foreseen for one point at a time. In this part of the exhibition, I will refer to the draft laws confirming the agreements that the government owes RS and as we have heard from counterpart Jeremic for 154.5m euros. The only agreement by the RS is owed by the Republic of Italy by 30m euros, and in the other two contracts, RS appears as a guarantee in one according to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a guarantee for the obligations of the public undertaking "Serb Railways" of 100m euros and in the second to the European Investment Bank for Public Enterprise Obligations "Electro Network Serbia" of 24.5m euros. The total is 154.5m euros. This has become a practice for every session of the National Assembly to confirm borrowing agreements, regardless of what representatives of the SRS always say when it comes to the agenda that Serbia is too in debt, we are constantly getting answers that there is someone more in charge than we are. Now I will say something about the bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the implementation of the programme -- a loan to help small and medium-sized enterprises, through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies. This is another one in a series of evidence that this government, in order to realise a project, must necessarily be in charge. This loan is characterised as a concession or credit under favourable conditions, a 13-year period, a six-year period, a seven-year maturity, an interest rate of 0.35%. These are the conditions under which Serbia gets a loan from Italy. The end-users will use credit on different terms and conditions: an interest rate of 4,85% on an annual basis and it covers: a rate of 0.35% that the Government of the Republic of Italy accounts for the Republic of Serbia, increased by a loan management fee of 0.5% charged by the National Bank of Serbia plus a maximum rate of 4% needed to cover the business risk of each individual transaction, further, a repayment period of no more than eight years, including a period of up to two years. In view of the fact that the interest rates in banks, in the approval of commercial loans, amount to up to 17% in euro borrowings and up to 27% on an annual basis, that banks in most cases reserve the right to change certain terms of credit, independent of the will of clients, and then exchange rates used by banks when granting loans, i.e. paying annuities. When all of this is considered, loans like this, at this difficult time, have grounds to be tempting to businesses. There's one important item here -- credit under these conditions can't be given to everyone. In order for someone to become a beneficiary of this loan, they must have a party book of some of the parties in power. Otherwise, it is very likely that his business plan, when applied for the loan, will be negatively assessed. This is where all the stories of the state's intention to help develop small and medium-sized enterprises fall into the water, as the greatest chance and the best way to hire as many people as possible. The state will be the support, but only a certain number of businessmen who are party friends of the ruling structure. Others, unfortunately, cannot count on any benefits, if the credit can be viewed as a convenience at all, given that each credit represents a debt, a liability, a burden, because the debtor is not only paying back the principal, but also interest. We currently have a situation in Serbia that around 60% of the companies have a blocked account. According to World Bank experts, in the following year, many businesses in Serbia could face a collapse due to a large external debt due to the collection. According to official data from the National Bank of Serbia, of 21.8 billion euros, totaled the external debt at the end of 2008, the private debt of domestic enterprises to it, expressed in percentages, was 52.8% and private debt to banks 17.9%, while public sector debt is 29.3%. This year's loans to domestic companies cannot be fully charged, and an attempt to enforce charges would lead to foreign banks having to take over parts or entire companies that would not know what to do. It is not surprising that the most wanted loans from businessmen in Serbia - are liquidity loans. Businesses are forced in this way to solve money flow problems, because in these unhealthy conditions they have no other way out, and they actually create new burdens for themselves. When we take a closer look at this loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy, it is obvious that, as far as the Italian side is concerned, it has clearly defined its interests. Up to 70% of each procurement contract will be used to finance the purchase of goods and services from the Republic of Italy. So this side has provided itself with another benefit, has secured the placement of its goods on our market. One of the shortcomings in this contract is that the Serbian side did not specify which part of the 30m-euro amount was intended to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which will go to support local development through public utility companies. The contract shall specify the minimum and maximum amounts of the procurement contract to be financed from the credit line. It is also stated that public utility projects are subject to the obligation to verify procurement by the competent authority, and this verification actually refers to the proper application of procurement procedures. I'm saying this because it's well-known that public enterprises are the site of corruption. Public enterprises are a source of material power for parties from which they are directors. In this way, packages are provided at a time before the elections, as a way to reach votes, and public enterprises are also a place to handle party personnel, and Serbia is the only country in Europe, besides the Vatican, in which the audit of the spending of money from the state budget and the revision of the work of public enterprises does not work. Otherwise, public enterprises in Serbia ended last year with losses greater than 100 euros per capita, and their accumulated losses reached as much than 371.8 billion dinars or about four billion euros. In last 2008 public enterprises had losses worth 1.9% of Serbia's gross domestic product, making four times the profit loss, while in 2007, the losses of public enterprises were as much as 4.7% of GDP. According to an analysis by the National Bank of Serbia, every fifth dinar of the loss of Serbia's economy in 2008 has been achieved by public enterprises. On the other hand, their profits were only 4.9%. According to official data from the Republic Development Institute, in total revenues from the economy, public enterprises are participating at 14.3%, net profit at 3.8%, while in losses they are participating with 15.8%. Some public companies are making huge losses, regardless of how much the structure of their revenues looks at, it can be seen that practically every other dinar has come directly from the state budget. Exports of subsidies to public enterprises from the budget are quite significant, although the World Bank's view is well known that Serbian executive power must reduce subsidies to the public sector. That's how things are about the business of Serbian public enterprises, but the biggest paradox is that the directors of these losers, making losses, at the same time to themselves and members of the boards of directors and supervisors, paid abnormal profits and fees. I would like to remind you that the representatives of the SRS at the beginning of this year, with many information relating to the reception of directors, have insisted that the salaries of directors of public enterprises and agencies be made public. On its website, the government published official data on the salaries of the directors of public enterprises paid in February of this year. Let's remind ourselves what it looked like. The CEO of JAT Airways - 379.161 dinar, director of Telecom - 354.879 dinars, Elektroprivrede - 345.779 dinars, "Transnafte" - 331.136 dinars, "Srbiagas" - 312.918, "Special and Educational Institute" - 226.214, "PTT Serbia" - 97.202, "Serbia Water" - 220.500 dinars, "Official Messenger" - 275,904, "Nikola Tesla" airport - 297.474 dinars and so on. In the boards, the state seemed to be this-president of the Management Board of Aerodrom 180,000 a month, "Serbiagas" 260,000, "Transnatfe", 65,000, "Electroprivreda" Serbia, 110, the Public Enterprise "Skiatel" Serbia, 160,000. In 2008, the chairman of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise "Jugoimport" – SDPR received a total of 1.2 million dinars, JAT Management Board "Erways", also 1.2 million, the Public Enterprise "Roads of Serbia", 872,000, "Serbia" 922,000, "Electro Network of Serbia" million and 200,000. Let me just point out that the number of members in most boards is up to 20. All this is data we've already had the opportunity to hear, but it's good to repeat it at this point, when the Serbian government is constantly talking about reducing public spending it intends to achieve by preparing layoffs for employees in the Republic and local administration. A number of employees will lose their jobs, at the moment of the economic crisis, when new employment is impossible. At this very moment, government representatives are announcing that as of the new year, the Law on temporary wage cuts in the public sector will cease to apply, which means that the salaries of all administration employees will be returned to the previous level. This means that unless the law on temporary wage cuts in the public sector is extended, we can again expect the directors of public enterprises and members of their boards of directors to have these incomes. The fact that public enterprises are the main losers in Serbia means nothing to this government. The only thing that matters is that their well-deserved personnel are well taken care of, of course, in well-paid places in public enterprises. This is one in a series of evidence that the rationalization of state and local administration really has nothing to do with reducing public spending. Just one more piece of information, and if they show poor financial results, in most public companies, wages are well above average. In 2008, employees of public enterprises "Vode Vojvodina", "Transnafta" and "JAT", received profits of about 2.2 times the average. The average salary in public enterprises was 37.2% above Serbia's average last year and even 58.7% higher than in the rest of the economy. In addition, we now have the following situation – Serbia owes from Italy 30m euros, the amount of which part of the amount will go to development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and which part of the public utility companies. Also, the Republic of Serbia appears as a guarantor in the borrowing of two public enterprises -- "Serb Railways" for 100m euros and "Electro Networks of Serbia" for 24.5m euros. In the end, I will repeat what I once said today, in the National Assembly, the highest legislative body, the law, the Constitution and human rights are being violated. I don't know how long the president of the National Assembly will ignore my address regarding the termination of the term of office of my colleague Elena Christmas-Talian and me. Our resignations have been handed over to the president of the National Assembly on 31 August and there is no obstacle to the termination of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30397	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. After him, the People's Messenger, Milorad Buh. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 31 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as we can see we are right that the government is too bulky, because if we look at the minister here today, it is Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, so she is able to probably replace Minister of Trade Slobodan Milosavljevic, and probably Bozidar Delic. If we look at over 20 of these ratifications and look back, we'll see that we've thrown the accent into co-operation with the countries that you've wiped out after the five-coach revolution as friends, because you've turned west, thinking that the sun is born in the west, not the east. But as time goes by, you realized that they were your pre-election 10-year promises your employers didn't make, you're turning to those countries that can help you, that's all that you've been told since 2000 by one of our greatest experts and greatest heroes, and that's Professor Vojislav Seselj. He told you then that you were wrong in one great collaboration with the West. Even then, he said in one common language, that the sheep had a haircut once a year, not many times, but you didn't believe it, but then it was only important for you to bring down the regime and come to power. By coming to power, we see how Serbia's economy works today. A straw of hope is born, which is the Russian Federation and China. First, I will rely on a law that speaks of free trade with Russia. In the past year, I must honestly tell you that thanks to Russia, the Serbian peasant and agriculture have survived. Let's just think of one vegetable plant that helped the peasant survive, to revitalise his production, which is cabbage. Unfortunately, it didn't last long. You hear the mourning here from the MPs when they talk about the price of agricultural products. You have an apple price of 1.30, and how much today is Serbia squirming under this product? Not to speak backwards, because I would repeat myself about what you have no hearing, because surely, I must tell you, that few of you who came from the economy, because thanks to Russia, the economic blockade of Serbia has been overcome. We managed not to be hungry. You'll ask how? Nice, many mineral fertilizer factories worked thanks to gas from Russia. Russia didn't close the gas then, but it had free flow and debt was paid for by agricultural products. Now that all this is open with you, when you have opened the borders, when you have spoken in the election campaign, the West will come, through which they will come to take directly without mediators to take goods from peasants. But unfortunately, you set that barrier. You've set up these big economic tycoons that have become rich, and unfortunately, today, they're making their wealth and building an economy and the society of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look back and look back, we see how China works, we talk daily about the great industrial development of this country, about rebirth. Now we're taking care of China. You saw now, a month ago, maybe later, when the president visits China, grabs the straw of salvation again, can that China come to build us bridges, build us infrastructure, that China helps us see. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that no one can help us until we solve the internal problems of corruption, crime and the mafia. It's the most dangerous pain today that kills this country. Make some kind of move, make some sort of Morava, do something that would be sensational to see how you operate, how you catch or want to catch those of you who are pampering, who are stealing, and there's a flag there after a month, it's released. Nothing has been proven how much who stole and how much who robbed this country. It doesn't take much of you to regret offering some money to the peasants so he can survive, just help him get his goods into the market of Russia and Asia, and everything will be fine. Also, on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we discussed these two laws on the agreement, yes, and on the technological and technical co-operation of science between China and Serbia and, of course, the ratification of agreements on imports of radioactive particles or radioactive waste from Vinci. My colleagues have talked a lot about this problem here, but I believe that this is how you brought down Serbia's economy and destroyed every company I feel that Vinci, as a scientific institute, has also been destroyed, destroyed and destroyed. You've heard from your colleagues how many scientific institutes the doctor of science has failed, how many experts he's let down, the people in this area. It wasn't a free story that in this part of Europe for the meaning of this scientific institute, 20 years ago, it was said that Vinca was one of the main ones who built an atomic bomb, because it was significant, because she was strong by expertise, by the capacity of human personnel. Today, you've ruined it, devalued the value of these researchers. That's what you probably did first with certain legal norms, lies, as Mr. Delic said money was provided, $25 million, to remove this waste from Vinca. But that's not true. I must tell you that on the Committee on Science and Technological Development many things have been said, so I will try to pass it on probably for the first time to you, and probably for the first time to the citizens of Serbia. Four or five meetings of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, we discussed and discussed the situation of Vinci. That's where Miroslav Veskovic, the assistant minister, tried to explain the situation, and I think the secretary of state is, too. Snezana Pajovic, also tried to explain the situation in Vinca. However, the contradictory explanation was theirs in relation to the fact that the real situation that is actually happening in this company. The colleagues talked a lot about it but they didn't touch certain matter, which is actually very important and which should talk about how and how the situation in Vinci happens today. I must point out that this government has not notified, nor has it made clear what the government has actually done with the NATO Alliance, which has actually admitted that ammunition with the impoverished uranium has been used on Serbia-Montenegro's territory. Now I'm going to read to you -- a public company that manages Serbia's nuclear waste has been tasked with taking care of its nuclear waste in the form of what was formed, and that actually means what you mentioned in the materials, the land contaminated by the use of ammunition with poor uranium, and the largest part of it is that everything that happened properly in Serbia's spaces, except for the space of Kosovo, and in a certain way decontamination has been done. This means that the surface layers of land were removed from those locations where contamination occurred. I have to tell you that we've had a little bit of luck in all this, in that sense, that the use of that ammunition was in an appropriate way, I'd say, more tested than the possibility of a weapon itself, than was the aim of ammunition. However, the government received money from the NATO Alliance and thus admitted to NATO's alliance that it was using ammunition with impoverished uranium. I'm asking you-- where did the government announce that she got money from the NATO Alliance? Ladies and gentlemen, as there is a 31st point here that says there has been a chronological destruction of the Vinci Nuclear Science Institute. I'm just going to take one of the points out, because I believe it takes another hour to bring it out, although my colleagues have surfaced certain points that have contributed to the destruction of this institute. In 2008, the VIND former government of Serbia and the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of AIM Pesikan, State Secretary of Uranija Kozmidis-Luburic, was funded to decide on the suspension of the construction of Tesla and IEN Vinca's accelerant installation, citing the sanctioning and non-disclosure of responsible state officials, managers with suspicion that work on this following the non-intentional spending of the budgets over the two decades. During August and December 2008, the new Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, MPs said 6% could be singled out for science. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to convince Mr Djelic and the other members of the government, he was trying to secure or convince them that this institute should be found in the state budget. However, on 1 January 2009, the financing of the VINDkoji project ceased to be formed and controlled exclusively by the Serbian government. Furthermore, the Institute finds no funds in the 2009 budget for the project to be remedied. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, in the end, I must say that my colleagues who brought out researchers and scientists from this Vinch Science Institute have recently found that the public company "NOS" is registered to perform municipal activities and external trade without additional points with offered facilities and radioactive waste. Do you know why this public enterprise was formed? That's why, and that's why this company could be in debt for $25 million. In his visit that Mr. Minister had in... July, he was staying there and said he provided 23 million, which you can see is not true. If we look again at the thing that's very important for the functioning of this public enterprise, we can understand that not only Vinci, but also the environment around Vinca is in a very difficult, not exit position, because it threatens a major ecological disaster. This year or in 2010 a Russian team is scheduled to carry out the transport, i.e. the loading of this radioactive waste. It's going to be very difficult because the experts who need that part of the job to do it, you've probably driven many away, some kind of force, which shows how much you actually thought about the future of this great scientific institute, "Vinch". However, I believe that this project will be achieved and therefore it is unanimously supported on the Committee on Science and Technological Development to achieve this project, but I believe that this public enterprise, which is currently formed, you, as president of the Assembly, must participate, namely to show one good will to return it to the Parliament flows, because in 1977 the Assembly took over the commitment to the establishment of this institute and I believe that you must show your authority a great and good will, first to save all of these, there are plenty of young and old experts, their outflow from this country, which you are constantly talking about, how these young people should be preserved and, naturally, to keep from having a major ecological disaster. When we talked on the Science Committee, we talked more widely about these projects that are very present, which are projects that are related to nuclear power plants, where there are a lot of such thermal power plants that are surrounded. You've heard, ladies and gentlemen, how recklessly this government has stopped or in some way prevented 48kg of high radioactive material from being found on the free market, which is of a fabulous high value. You have just failed to call it a highly enriched uranium, which was exhausted and which was also to be found in the country of origin, to return to its currents, because it is certain that Russia is so technologically strong that it is returning it to its intended purpose, so that it can be used, whether it is in thermal power plants, and it can even be used to make an atomic bomb. So that's very important, which I warn you once again, that this institute must be saved, and that is both your concern and our concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30399	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. You've got 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, in this set of 26 laws, I will talk about the Law on ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Since 1995, when war was suspended at the premises of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia and there has been a truce between the two states, once the SRJ, the state union and the Republic of Serbia, 15 agreements and hundreds of protocols from all areas of social life have been signed. What is the fate of these agreements and protocols, I will try to explain in these 11 minutes. I will start with an agreement ahead of us, which in its preamble says: "The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, driven by the desire to develop economic relations based on equality and mutual interests." Very nice words for future economic co-operation. However, we must say what has happened so far. In economic terms, economic co-operation, equality and a real economic match that involves free flow of goods, people, capital and services, is not because the Croatian state and Croatian state authorities do not allow the Serbian economy to enter the market of the Republic of Croatia. The best indicators were presented in the light of this bill, where you said that between 1995 and today, some 410m euros were invested in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the proposer of this law did not say how much we invested there, almost nothing. Why? Because we are not allowed by Croatian state authorities. In mutual business, we have a deficit that was 15m euros in 2007, in 2008, 98m euros, this year, for the first nine months there are 61m euros, at the end there will be around 85m euros, such forecasts. Again, the deficit, an unequal match, a market closed to Serbian products, a Serbian legal firm that, under the deal on normalisation of relations, signed since 1996, would have to open a free match, free access to Serbia's Croatian market. Unfortunately, Serbia has not changed its mind. The 1996 agreement on normalising relations between the two countries regulated future relations, the two states recognised each other. That is why the Republic of Serbia, then the SRJ, made a catastrophic mistake. She confessed to genocide, a substance that was created on genocide, ethnic cleansing, murder, persecution between 500,000 and 800,000 Serbs. All their property has been destroyed, all their rights, among other things, acquired rights, have been taken away. It's the biggest crime in Europe since World War II. The Serbian state authorities don't care about everything I've brought out, but it's coming back to them through economic agreements. The next agreement we have to mention is the Social Security Agreement, which had to recognise the rights acquired, although there is no return to some acquired right. Under this agreement, the issue of pension payments is defined. For Serbs, under this agreement, Croatia was obliged and obliged to pay pensions, those it did not pay in the period from 1991 to 1998, in some cases even until 2000. Unfortunately, even to this day, this compensation, which belongs to the right acquired, which is an international category, has not been paid. Serbs have not received a single euro, no kuna, no dinar on that basis. What was the fate of those who retired and were to retire from 1998 and beyond? More than 24,000 Serbs who were entitled to pension under the provisions of national legislation and under the provisions of this agreement were to retire in line with years of employment and years of life. Unfortunately, these 24,000 people could not have done so. This is the information I received on the parliamentary issue in 2007. And today tens of thousands of Serbs who have acquired this right do not retire. Huge damage to Serbian national interests and individual damage to any individual who does not get that right. Many among them will not succeed even to this day. We must further mention the conflict agreement. All the countries of the former Yugoslavia agreed to settle the issue of private property through a peaceful path, on an equal footing, leading on economic interests, to resolve the issue of former enterprises that were in other territories, in other countries today, to resolve the issue of bankruptcy rights, housing rights, etc. None of this question I'm talking about right now has been adequately resolved. What is devastating in Serbia's national interests is that Serbia has been captured, i.e. by legal persons from Serbia, about 1,800m euros, which is the estimated value of Serbian businesses' assets in other former Yugoslavia's countries. The property of the countries I'm talking about, from the former Yugoslavia, is about 800m here, so a billion euros is more worth of Serbian businesses in other countries. What is the fate of this property? I will mention Croatia and Slovenia. As soon as they were internationally recognised, they established their statehood, they sold, resigned or leased that property, and today it's the status. What's our destiny? In 1991, the State Administration Regulation was adopted, i.e. the creation of a special status for these companies. These companies were registered under a special regulation, under that regulation and were frozen by 2008. The 2007 concept, proposed by Mladjan Dinkic, was amended by the law, which violated the concession agreement. I say broken, and I'll tell you why it's done. To sell those assets, which was good anyway, because our property was sold there. However, when the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Privatisation and the enabled sale of those assets was passed, the protests by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, three press notes, and four protest notes of the Republic of Slovenia, were received. Even threatened to prevent us from entering the EU if these companies are sold. What is the fate of these companies now? The moment the protest notes arrived, the Croatian and Slovenian governments objected, the moment they cared about all the activities, regardless of what we had passed the law, etc. Their press release is stronger than our law. Their protest note is stronger than the entire legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which obliges us to do what we have adopted in this assembly. That's how you do it. The current government is irresponsiblely, sloppyly, muddyly referring to everything that is the property of this country. We have to mention, I'm going to have two more minutes, a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia sued us in 1999 for the crime of genocide against the Croatian people committed by the JNA military, the Republic of Serbia and the paramilitary unit. What is the Republic of Croatia looking for? He asks that all those who have committed crimes, including the management of the JNA, Serbia's leadership and the leadership of the then-SRJ, be punished. Furthermore, to punish all perpetrators of individual crimes, to return all cultural treasures and to compensate for damages. The damage I cannot speak of now, some estimates according to their budgets, although it was not shown in the claim, is between 50 billion and 75 billion euros. You know what it's all about. The International Court of Justice in The Hague has asked then the authorities in 2000 to submit an answer to the suit, or counter suit. We didn't do that. In 2002, we were also called by the International Court in The Hague, and we did not respond then. It's March 22nd, 2010. This is the last chance, because otherwise, unless we respond with a countersuit, we will be considered to recognise the Croatian state's claims of genocide and ethnic cleansing against Croats. Seriously, this is a very serious question. I still have a few sentences to mention. We have one dispute that leads, among other things, to the government of Republika Srpska, in persecution before the San Francisco Court of Appeal, which is being sued by the Vatican Bank, the Franciscan Order and Ustashas who committed a crime during World War II. It's a serious lawsuit. However, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are not paying any attention to this judicial dispute that is going very well. To point out that there is the Government of Republika Srpska as prosecutor together with Jewish organisations, Roma organisations, Ukraine organisations, the Soviet Union, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30401	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, who did not exercise the right set out in Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. Mr. Ilic, your group is out of time, you've wasted your time. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic spoke for 20 minutes. We move to a joint single search on: List of candidates for members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and the List of candidates for members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I thank Mrs. Minister and the government associates who participated in the work today. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on items 57 and 58 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, under Article 163(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for MPs' groups, are five hours and that: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups if you have not done so by now to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Zoran Shami of the DSS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vladimir Jeremic of the SRS. According to Article 142(2) and Article 163(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: List of candidates for members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and the List of candidates for members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. Mr. Velimir Ilic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30402	I think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. The New Serbia MP group had 11 minutes untapped and you didn't give me a word, and I had the right to speak. It's part of the MP's time group. The second thing, I don't think we can move on to the debate on this point you announced, because none of the government representatives are present. This is really a disdain for parliament. First, we had a sports minister representing 26 laws, debt, various investments, etc. And it's really unserious from the government of RS. Secondly, we now have one point that is extremely important and important. Is it possible that there is no one from the government's representatives, that the chairs are empty, and that we are discussing and that we are opening a search without the presence of the government's representatives and the Secretary-General? I would ask you, Madam President, to take care of the future, what are the ministers doing, where are they today, why have the ministers who were here from these 26 points not had time to appear? Is it humiliating for us to have the Minister of Youth and Sports come and defend all of a sudden in the debate of 26 laws? Calculate how many duties are these, how much has Serbia been in charge of what projects today, who is responsible for this? Enough -- the minister of diaspora defends, the minister of religion represents the laws of finance, etc. It's time for the government to get serious. I suggest, gentlemen Members of Parliament, that there is no search until a representative of the government arrives to be present.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30403	Mr. Ilic, first comment on the first part of your findings. No one has been reported by members of your parliamentary group. It wasn't businessly possible now that you came. Therefore, no one has signed up to participate in a joint single search on the draft laws in paragraphs 31 to 56. So, that time that was available was over before you came in, so I'm sorry. On the other hand, the government is not proposing these points that I just opened. Our assembly committees are proposing, so that the promoters for them are MPs. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, Mrs Vesna Marjanović, or any of the committee's authorised representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30404	President, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you have on the table a request, and regarding the violation of article 27, three groups of MPs, 51 of the MP for your resolution. The reason is an inconsistencies and irregular application of the Rules of Procedure during the meeting of the National Assembly, counting on a year, not putting on the agenda certain proposals that entered parliament in a legal and normal manner. The second thing is whether the assembly majority would refuse if you proposed them, but you never did, first of all, when it comes to the law on the transfer of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which was composed of a group of DSS and NS MPs and was fully in line with the Constitution in a proper and normal way, in order to face an unconstitutional and catastrophic proposal for our country already next week. You're still doing exactly the same practice. Do you find any difference in the Rules of Procedure when it comes to legislators and their rights and obligations to attend the National Assembly session? Whoever it is, your little explanation is not entirely water-holding, and as a national MP, I have to react precisely because of Article 27, because you show permanent inconsistency in the manner of applying the Rules of Procedure, and this does not only apply to you in the literal sense of having the presidency, but also to your vice presidents who you empower, and which are part of the exact same story, because you are someone who is actually formally responsible for handling the National Assembly no matter who sits in the chair. That, after all, also stands in the light of your resolution, which you will probably put on the agenda of the world never.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30405	The proposal for my resolution will be found at the moment when the business conditions are met, which means that it will be at least 126 MPs who need to be made known about the proposal. Unfortunately, we haven't had a situation like this since the moment you made the proposal, so I couldn't put it on the agenda, and it's definitely going to be on the agenda. That means at the first session where there are 126 MPs, we'll do it. Mr. Zoran Shami, are you in the Rules of Procedure or have you signed up as...? Mr. Dragan Todorovic, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30406	Article 87, Mrs Dejanovic, regardless of the government's non-proposal, there are other authorised proposings. One such promoter may also be a congregation committee. In this case, it's the Committee on Culture. Among other things, it is said here that the Committee's rapporteur at the National Assembly session was appointed the chairman of the Committee Vesna Marjanovic, so in accordance with current practice, the elemental respect of the RS Assembly should be authorized, he should not sit there in front of you, but he can sit in the Assembly Hall. However, this novice is not available. I'm asking you a question -- how can you start discussing this agenda point, because there's no author in power? I have no doubt you can do anything. Your interpretation that you'll put your shift on the agenda when it's 126 in the O.R. Mrs. Dejanovic, I need to give you a piece of advice to read what you said after this session, so that you can find some logical connection or anything that would somehow justify what you said. Believe me, you'll laugh for yourself that you reacted hastily and gave an unsuspecting explanation. Mrs Dejanovic, you are not asked to assume anything, nor anyone's wishes, nor how many MPs there are, or anything, but to work on the Rules of Procedure, and it is yours to put something on the agenda if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or whether there are 126 or not you will see the moment when it arrives in the Assembly of the RS, so you will schedule it, and then the MPs come and then check it out. This was well-intentioned advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30407	Time. To put the proposal to this session, 126 MPs were needed, and there were none. At the next session, of course, I'll put in no matter what number of MPs are in the O.R. and I think we understand each other completely. Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30408	What about an authorised representative? Wait, two questions. It's not like you forgot for such a short time. I asked two questions. What about Vesna Marjanovic, the authorised representative, the promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30409	Mr. Velimir Ilic answered the question, and we'll check, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30410	Mr. Velimir Ilic is not Vesna Marjanović, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30411	Mr. Todorovic, we'll check on Member Vesna Marjanovic. I can't answer until I check. Here you go, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30412	I think there's a injured member of 104 here, the dignity of the Assembly. The president of the Committee is not present either. No, how can we discuss something without any of the promoters present at the assembly session? The proposal was made by the MPs. How's that? Does anyone have the authority to give an opening statement, to address the MPs and to explain and to give an opening statement so that we could open the debate? There isn't. Where's the board president? He's gone. Where's the Resolute Minister? He's gone. You know there were disagreements between the Ministry and the Agency, you know there were a thousand problems? So none of the responsible are present. We're opening a debate about what? Perhaps you'll give the opening statement? This is very unserious. Get the board president to give an opening statement and let's hear him out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30413	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic. No, I'm not giving an introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30414	Interesting explanation. I am reporting under Article 88 to support all of these requests by the Members of the People regarding the Authorised Proposer. It says Article 88. - at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly every day when the National Assembly is meeting the President of the National Assembly informs the National Assembly of MPs who have been prevented from attending the session of the National Assembly, as well as of who was invited to the session. Based on this article, given the fact that you did not inform the National Assembly that Vesne Marjanovic is missing, I assume she was at the beginning of the session, but in the meantime I will not enter into the reasons, the president of the Committee, as an authorised promoter, is not. I remind you of a large number of sessions that have been interrupted at a given time, when there are no representatives of the government or members of the government, which is totally fine. You know, it's pointless for us to discuss here. In this congregation, a person sits, listens to the presentations of the MPs, both in principle and in discussion in detail, and in accordance with his proposal and what he hears reacts, which is perfectly normal, common, and necessary in the work of each congregation, including these. This is completely pointless. Then there must be an obligation or possibility or an authorised proposer at all. Then why do we need an authorized promoter? Then everyone can do anything and then we're done. But what will this congregation look like? This really doesn't make sense. I think it would be a basic order and respect for this assembly if you could get information where the board president is. If you have that information, tell us right now, and if you don't, you can schedule a session for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30415	Time. I respect your objections. I'm taking a ten-minute break to see if the representative's gonna be here. [[After a break.]] Gentlemen, let's get back to work. Are the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary group, a word? Mr. Zoran Shami. Here you go. You'll have to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30417	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is good that Miss Marjanovic came to the hall as a representative of the motion team before I know that the Committee on Culture had a lot of work to do on this point, especially with candidates for the RRA Council, because not only two proposals arrived, but much more, and the Committee then had to choose two candidates who would propose to the Assembly. However, I know it is not the government's obligation to attend the agenda, but this agenda item is slightly different from some of our other humanities, such as when we replace members of the assembly boards, it touches a very important topic, which is the RRA's work and, I say, the responsible and serious government would probably conclude that it is worth having its competent minister in the O.R., to simply hear what the MPs have to say about this topic. Of course, I'm not going to talk about direct personnel solutions, I personally think that with these kind of personnel solutions, first of all, the ruling coalition has to be made known by the candidate, because it's an obligation to raise 126 votes, but I'm going to take the opportunity and I think it's necessary to say a few words about the RRA itself. So that someone wouldn't mind me now if I had come to some subsequent opposition mind, I would remind my colleagues that I've talked very critically about this in the past assembly several times, though, it seems to me, not at the plenary session, but at the competent Committee on Culture and Information. We have a serious problem with the Broadcasting Agency, and I'm only going to make some of the most important aspects, and then, of course, I'm going to conclude. I'm afraid the Broadcasting Agency, the Republican Broadcasting Agency, is not doing well. There are, I say, more problems. The most basic problem is that the prescribed terribly high taxes have to be paid by electronic media auctions. The fees at the level of an electronic media with a regional frequency are about 180,000 euros a year, which is about 15,000 euros a month. Such high taxes actually have very bad consequences for the overall survival and work of electronic media, because it is quite clear that in such conditions, those electronic media that support themselves practically have no chance of survival. Only those media that are supported by someone else can survive. This someone else can be citizens of Serbia, if it's the Public Service. I can be the media supported by some government, I don't say ours. Most of the time, it's a foreign government. They can survive the media supported by some large capital representatives for some of their own interests, let's just say, I use a mild expression for such persons. This also shows you the current current current media picture of Serbia. If I add to this information that taxes in Serbia are 10 times higher than in some countries in the environment, e.g. in Croatia, then you will understand that this problem is not naive at all and is nothing to assess. Another problem the RRA doesn't want to solve and solve is the cable situation. We have practically a monopoly of a cable operator, of course, he's literally monopolistic. He's blackmailing electronic media, especially those who don't have a frequency, asking for money to broadcast them on a cable. This, of course, makes the position of electronic media more difficult again. The third still won't count, it's a completely unregulated issue about advertising. We want to admit it or not, we have a monopoly of some advertising agencies, so some similar TV, for example. He's gonna get commercials, and some guy who's not gonna get commercials. Also, if you connect point 2 and point 3, you have another problem. You have a lot of foreign programs that are broadcast through the cable to us where advertising is neat. Why would a famous world firm now be advertised on domestic media, when they can see their commercials on Halmark, Disctoria, the History Channel, Eurosport and on numerous channels? Such a situation is not in other countries. All the things I've listed, I counted only two years ago. One letter, one yota hasn't moved since that time. Because the Republican Broadcasting Agency doesn't care about that. I don't think there's any reason for us, or for the citizens of Serbia, or for this assembly, whichever, independent of that to be sitting in power or opposition, not interested today. I think we must be interested. For these reasons, I think we need to understand that it's very important to choose, finally, to complete the advice of the Broadcasting Agency. There are two missing members at the moment. One is now being chosen from the ranks of NGOs. We didn't do the other one. At last session, the ruling majority failed to agree. We didn't choose from the order of the Press Association or the relevant Association of Journalists. Now I have heard, today from Miss Marjanovic, that very soon some members will be missing their mandate very soon. It is doubtless that this Assembly must make an effort to complete the advice of the Republic Radiodifuge Agency, to complete it. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's going to go by some wrong method, but by logic, things should actually just read candidate biographies, and then decide based on them, not on some party and non-partisan sympathies and non-sympathies, to get that advice from the Broadcasting Agency into order. Now I won't bother you to get the amount of money spent by the Broadcasting Agency. She makes them, though, under quotes and earns money, and earns it simply by making state goods, such as radio and television frequencies, selling for expensive money, and spending enormous amounts of money. I'm afraid it's not even hard to check. I certainly do, and I advise him to check it out, and there's gonna be amazing results. So, in conclusion, I'll repeat, I think it's important that this Assembly takes a little bit more account of RRA's work, that this work be brought into line with the interests of the state, and then it's an initial step in fixing a complete state in the media and in one real way, not in that nasaradic way that came out of the Information Act, but in one essential way. It is quite clear that if the media that someone touches can remain on the market, and no one gives money just like that, then it is quite clear that from professional journalism, from responsible journalism, as it should be with us, there is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30418	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30419	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when looking at this list of candidates for members of the programme board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, which are elected on the RRA proposal, I think we may not have had to go back to Miss Marijana Marijanović, because it was more appropriate to say that we only kept Minister of Sport and Youth Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, given that a good part of the candidates for the programme board, so to speak, in her jurisdiction. Although I didn't think I was dealing with these personal solutions, I can't go over some of the facts, since it's an institution, or an agency that has and how important it is in the media field. We have candidates here – Zivko Kalentić, who graduated from the school of medicine in Novi Sad, graduated from the Faculty of Physical Culture in Novi Sad, worked as a coach of several selections in the football of Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Veternik, etc., and the Vojvodjan Association of Entrepreneurs, whose candidate is him, believes that his prominent member with his work experience, biographical references and knowledge of the media sphere can adequately perform his duties as a member of the programme committee of the Radiodifuse Institute of Serbia. Why did I tell you about the Minister of Sports? There is also proposed Lidija Mihajlovic, who is a multiple champion of the state and the record player, a participant of many international competitions, world championships, European championships, world cups, Olympic games, etc., winner of numerous medals – in the shooting process. All this is commendable, but it is not clear – in what sense will they help in the work of the Programme Committee of the Broadcasting Institutions? He's got a light case. Here is Dr. Nenad Dikic, who mainly deals with sports medicine and for him is a found place, and also some of the candidates who absolutely no points of contact with RRA, or with the problem of the media in Serbia that is quite complicated absolutely do not. I would like to look back on this opportunity, for the sake of the public, to announce some facts concerning this review of the financing and financial obligations of the broadcaster in Serbia's media laws. I think that's very important. When it comes to Serbia, according to the Law on Broadcasting, Article 41 states that only a domestic natural or legal person, a domestic company in which the founders of a foreign legal or natural person from countries where it is impossible or internal legal regulations are not allowed to determine the origin of capital, cannot participate in a competition for the award of the programme's broadcasting permit. A maximum of 49% of foreign capital participation in the total capital of the company participating in the competition for the award of programme broadcasting permits is allowed unless an international contract has ratified something different. Article 52 provides for mandatory documentation that the potential broadcaster is required to submit with the application for a competition. Article 5 provides for the projection of planned annual revenues and expenditures with their specification and data on the financial potential of the applicant, and for broadcasters who broadcast the programme and the financial report with balance sheets for the last business year at the time of the application. In Article 61, one of the reasons for the suspension of the validity of the issue permit before the expiry of the time it has been issued is if a foreign legal person who is not authorised or is not able to determine the origin of the founding capital appears as one of the founders or broadcasters after the authorisation is issued. Members from 80 to 84 deal with sources of financing of public broadcasting services, TV and radio subscription and the like. Member of the 95th was described by radio and TV stations of the civil sector, the means of working these broadcasters can be provided from donations, contributions from citizens, sponsorships and other contributions in accordance with the law, which regulates the functioning of the Association of Citizens and NGOs. If radio or civil sector TV broadcasts the programme or uses sponsorship or advertising contrary to the provisions of this law, it will be withdrawn before the deadline and will be paid retroactive compensation for the broadcasting of the programme, etc. Parts of the law that handle illicit media concentration, I will discuss this later, advertising and sponsorship in an indirect and general way, also the theme of broadcasting financing. The law stipulates that the levels of programme broadcasting fees and the use of radio frequencies are determined by the Broadcasting Agency and the Government, without matching the exact amounts, fines for violations are specified by law, etc. What should be the basic provisions of the programme committee's work is that they represent the interests of viewers and listeners in general, that the Programme Committee is considering the achievement of the programme concept of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, and I remind you who is now being proposed as a candidate for membership in the Programme Committee, to provide recommendations and suggestions to the Director-General and the Management Board. Members of the Programme Committee may not be elected, appointed or appointed by the Government or the Republic authorities, or may be members of the RRA Council. The term of office of members of the Programme Committee shall be three years and may not be re-appointed, etc. Now, you see, I did not say this so, given that in practice so far, when it comes to RRA work and what the members of the programming committee should be doing, there are a lot of irregularities. Here, let's say, in the current composition of the programming committee, we had Professor Dr. Ivan Nikčević, and the SRS parliamentary group, on several occasions, asked the question -- how it is possible that in May 2006, Professor Dr Ivan Nikcevic, if it is known that the gentleman, in the second half of May 2006, was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the office of Director of the House of Secondary Schools in Belgrade, based on Hajduk Stankova Street, was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Two on the Stargazer? In this respect, it is established that members of the Programme Committee cannot be elected, appointed or appointed by persons in the Government or the Republic authorities, nor may they be members of the RRA Council. That there is obviously something controversial here, that the gentleman is in conflict of interest, because at the same time he is acting as director and member of the programme board, they confirm in the best way and the provisions of the Law on conflict of interest. Public functions and officials to which this law applies, Article 2nd position 1 explicitly states - as a public function, according to this law, a function which a person, an official, performs on the basis of elections, appointments, appointments in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade, and bodies of public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, municipalities, city and city of Belgrade. Also, when it comes to the exercise of functions in public undertakings, institutions and other business entities, Article 9 says that the official must not be the director, deputy or assistant director, member of the board of directors or supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions, and undertakings or any other legal person with the participation of the State capital, except where it is prescribed by law or other special regulation. In other economic operators, the official shall not be a member of the Management or Supervisory Board, nor shall the Director, Deputy and Assistant Director. The functioner may be a member of the board of directors or supervisory boards of scientific, humanitarian and similar associations, but without the right to compensation or to receive gifts, other than travel and other expenses. As a result of all of this previously mentioned and the time distance already done, the SRS requires the competent congregation services to be provided by official duty and this stenogram to the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. We ask this body to initiate the procedure and, as soon as possible, determine whether Dr Ivan Nikcevic had been in conflict with the position of director and member of the programme board of the Serbian Radiodifuse Institute since May 2006. Also, given that Serbian citizens are paying a TV subscription, we in the SRS are asking the competent Ministry of Information that, in the form of a response to the parliamentary question, information is provided on all the net and gross fees and receipts of members of the Programme Committee of the Radio-Difuse Institute of Serbia from the day they were elected to office until the end of the term of office. And that, even when their mandate runs out, there are problems, it shows a clear attempt that took place in October of the month, when, above all, because of the reflection in positions within the ruling coalition, the place in the Republic Radio-Difuse Agency, which was reserved for a representative of the press associations, remained empty. I remind you that neither NUNS candidate Gordan Suša nor Milan Becevic, who was proposed by the Association of Journalists of Serbia, was elected at the time. I said just before, the term of office of two of the nine members of the RRA Council expired in February. NGOs and professional news associations, which functioned in this regulatory body, according to the Radio-Difusion Act, were to propose two candidates each, so they found three or four names on their lists. Obviously, this whole process is going pretty sloppy, i.e. that the selection of new members takes too long and that some deadlines that are scheduled to solve these things are not likely to repeat these things that I spoke of earlier were to be carried out, certain adjustments to the existing Radio Diffusion Act should be made. What I would like again, first of all for the public, to point out, is another anomaly in Serbia's entire media sphere. You know we have an announcement to pass a new law on illicit media concentration. You remember the announcement by the owner of the TV "Pink" Zeljko Mitrovica that he would inform all Serbian parliament MPs about the shortcomings and reportedly the adverse impact of the law on illicit media concentration. I can even openly say that it resorts to some kind of lobbying for the adoption of certain legal proposals. Just so it is known that the owner of the TV "Pink" is practically, but is on a good track to become a media monopoly, if it is not already, since, as you probably know well, it has already bought some 4.95% of the TV "Avala" capital. However, the purchase, according to the RRA Council, was done by law and there is no monopoly, as the percentage that Mitrovica bought is less than 5%. The fact that the public speculates that Mitrovica is behind a daily list, as well as that he already has a stake in the TV "Kosa", is probably on some other bodies to determine the true truth. What is most important is that the legislation prevents one media monopoly, namely the expansion of certain media empires whose witnesses we are witnessing today in Serbia. Perhaps the real thing is the adoption of a law on the illegal unification of the public, the ownership of public messages, which should, in turn, limit the monopoly on public ballots, or the excessive influence of media owners on public opinion. You could have been informed by media just now about the views of those who are currently, when it comes to the media in Serbia, the most significant. So, the opinions of RTS Director-General, who as many as a few months ago declared that the legislation in Serbia currently allows one man to get four television frequencies, city and three national ones, to have two weekly and one daily list and to have several local radio and television frequencies. Also, Veran Matic, owner of TV "B 92", was also against the adoption of a law against the monopoly, or stressed the necessity of one such law, because each monopoly, as Matic said, kills the diversity and diversity of reporting. It is definitely necessary to regulate the area, and the only one who had a conflicting opinion is just before mentioned Mr Zeljko Mitrovic, owner of the TV "Pink". So, the Ministry of Culture is on the move, which should be passed by a correct anti-monopol law. Serbia is eager for anti-monopolitan laws, not only in the media sphere, but as we are talking about it today, it is clear that it must be prevented from having a ruling or predominant influence on public opinion based on media ownership and that a free protocol and diversity of information, thoughts and ideas are needed in the exercise of everyone's right to freedom of expression and the right to receive and provide information. What is not good is that, in its own right, this law is slowly being prepared and passed in some secret, without discussion of the working version, that is, without these public debates and the conditions of transparency to carry out the debate in a proper manner and during the debate that precedes the adoption of the law. However, given that everything is somehow being done upside down in Serbia, I would not be surprised if we had a replay or a similar scenario as when the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act was adopted, which would certainly be another one in a series of negative connotations or repercussions to a Serbian media space that is obviously not arranged in the way it should be arranged. Someone who should deal with this is, among other things, the Republic Radio-Difusing Agency, obviously that the proposal, i.e. the list of candidates, satisfys people who are primarily party, party or not already know what interests, while in this professional aspect, i.e. the fact and the need to really do something concrete in fixing the confusion that exists in the media space in Serbia, will not be able to do it with such a composition of the Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30420	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are now discussing a list of candidates for members of the RRA Council from the ranks of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and that it is very simple to conclude that the Committee on Culture and Information had some problems proposing to the National Assembly two candidates from the total number that arrived from representatives of domestic NGOs and the list of candidates for members of the programme board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institution. It makes sense for these two points to be connected. During the adoption of the Radio-Difusion Act, which was first adopted in 2002 and ended in 2009 or June of the month, if I am not mistaken, it has changed seven times. When we passed this law, and every time its changes and additions were made, we had certain objections that were essential and that would practically lead to improved and improved relations in the media space. However, you were not prepared to accept these proposals, and therefore we now have disrespect, first of all, of Article 23, paragraph 5. Radio-diffusion law. This law also established a Republic Radio-Diffus Agency. It is an independent, or independent agency of any authority and it shall exercise public authority under this law and other regulations adopted under this law. Therefore, the Agency is an independent entity and functions independently and has its own organs. One of the most important is certainly the RRA Council. One member was provided for the number of members of the council and there were said to be a total of nine members. The Assembly's competent board, which is the Committee on Information and Culture, proposes two members, the AP Vojvodina Assembly also two, the University Conference, the Association of Broadcasting Organisations, domestic NGOs with its various associations. There was a problem because they proposed more than two candidates, so more than provided for in Article 23. point 5) and candidates who were proposed to the Committee on Culture and Information were Velimir Milosevic, Miljenko Dereta, Rajko Đurić, Bozo Prelevic, Goran Pekovic and Milovan Vitezovic. In a conversation with all of these candidates, the Committee proposed a total of two candidates, as foreseen by the law, but the Republic Agency, as colleagues before me, does not work adequately and in accordance with the law of its work. The reminders were working, I had to say what it was in the Agency's jurisdiction. She has a council chaired by the president of the Agency, and in his absence, if he is prevented, the council is managed by a deputy. The Republic Broadcasting Agency shall carry out very important activities and shall consist of the following: it shall adopt a strategy for the development of broadcasting, control of the implementation of the Law on Broadcasting, issue of broadcasting permits, prescribe binding rules for broadcasters, monitor the work of broadcasters, consider the performances, both legal and natural persons, consider objections, co-operate with state and other bodies and organisations and express measures for non-compliance with this law, and in particular what is in the jurisdiction of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, is the protection of minors, the protection of copyright and other related rights and the suppression of hate speech. Now the objective question can be asked - does the Republic Broadcasting Agency really do all these jobs and does it work properly and to the end, and in accordance with this law, does it work? The agency's council has a total of nine members and by structure as they are elected it represents certain problems in functioning, i.e. in the complete composition of the Broadcasting Agency, because some members of the Council, their mandate, are scheduled to last six, some five and some have a four-year term. Of course, when no choice from the group is completed, neither representatives appear to need to be elected by other members. This time, we will not be making any concrete objections, or personal discussion about the proposed candidates, but I certainly want to point out those practical problems in the election of the Radiodifuge Agency Council. Very practical and big problems exist when introducing order in media space. In one of the members of the Law on the Broadcasting Agency, in particular, Article 82 individually provides for conditions when certain persons can be free from the payment of a television subscription, but there are several cases where the legislator, as well as the Broadcasting Institutions, did not pay attention and certainly did not. There are certain areas, for example, in western Serbia, perhaps one-third of the municipalities in Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljubija and Baja Basta, where there is no coverage by the RTS Public Service, but television operators are certainly obliged to pay television subscription. One of the special examples, I would say, may be the most drastic one, is in one village near Ljiga, the village of Bag, where in 1988 in a dispute over the use and payment of television subscription, the dispute was resolved for the benefit of the residents, but they continued to send them bills for payment of the television subscription. I don't think that's right. I have certainly listed one particular village, and a large number of areas, a large number of villages in western Serbia where the field configuration is such that the signal coverage is weak. The Republic Broadcasting Agency would have to keep that in mind, and perhaps there would be no harm in the Information and Culture Committee too, taking care to address the problem where there is a possibility. Of course, Serbian citizens want to pay a television subscription, but they want to be provided a television photo, and only then, based on the service delivered, to create obligations for them, rather than on the basis that they may own television receivers and have contracts with other broadcasters and watch other programmes. When it comes to selecting members of the broadcasting board, the situation is somewhat simpler in structure and it is foreseen that the programme committee has a total of 19 members, seven of whom are elected from the ranks of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Information has also tried to ensure, through parliamentary groups, equal representation of the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups and 12 candidates on the proposal of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, therefore, that their mandate lasts for a total of three years and that they cannot be re-elected to the same function. There is a simpler solution and the Committee has proposed seven candidates from the order of MPs. All parliamentary groups are represented mainly or in accordance with certain agreements and 12 candidates proposed by the Republic Broadcasting Agency, whose mandate will last three years. We certainly join criticism at the expense of the Republic Broadcasting Agency when it comes to the amount of fees prescribed to certain broadcasters that should be paid and you heard that it is also 15,000 euros per month. Of course, these are large funds, but they should still be accounted for, it would be the Republic Broadcasting Agency, including the Committee on Culture and Information. Now we have had the opportunity for certain reasons to see that the children did not go to school for about ten days, counting on the weekend, and the television program, at least the public service, was not adapted to be able to sort of supplement missed classes, or lost days. The programmes, as well as the laws we bring here in the Assembly, should be adapted to the citizens of Serbia and it should be adapted to the conditions in which its citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30422	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30423	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the Programme Committee of the Broadcasting Agency should indeed be the points of the agenda of interest to all MPs. As far as the SRS is concerned, we were never disputed that a law on broadcasting was to be passed in Serbia, but when this law was passed in 2002, we were then making all objections to the government's proposal and how bad it was, the fact that the bill had been amended six or seven times. Unfortunately, in all these changes, we still didn't get what really should be the law on radio dysfunction, especially this, as you like to say, an independent regulatory body, and we, as well as all your independent regulatory bodies, say so-called. Independently, because from the current compositions, and also from these proposals that we are talking about today, it is more than obvious that, in fact, through this independent, under quotes, the regulatory body, actually the regime in Serbia wants to keep under its fist all electronic media and printed, of course, and in particular this is reflected in local media, where the state, conditionally said state, is closing through its independent regulatory body that the local media wants, opening up which local media wants, without any criteria or better say without respecting any prescribed criteria, even if they were prescribed in such a bad way as the Law on Broadcasting provides. Today we first have this proposal regarding the list of candidates in relation to the election of a member of the RRA Council. Before I comment on these proposals, about half an hour ago, members of the Committee on Culture and Information received some new proposals to fill some more places in the RRA and imagine this afternoon they received material, and a session of the Committee on Culture and Information is scheduled for tomorrow. So, it's not good that you do things like this over your knees, and it's going to happen again that most of the time in this council vote for people they don't even know, most of the time, based on what they're told should be the subject of voting. That I am right to say and the fact that you tried to reverse the application today to cross this agenda point and when you finally brought Mrs. Vesna Marjanovic to the Assembly Hall, not in 10 minutes as you said, but after 35 minutes, you did not ask her if she wanted to explain these proposals as an authorised representative of the Committee, and we insisted, not because we were harassing a colleague, but because we thought she might want to speak to the MPs on behalf of the Committee. So we have a proposal, or report from the Committee, and through this report we have a proposal to elect a member of the RRA Council. There are some things in this report that have been interesting to me, and I must share them with the public of Serbia, and with you fellow Members. You say the President of the National Assembly is based on Article 31. The Law on Broadcasting, on 19 and 22 June 2009, sets out a public call to authorised applicants who have proposed a candidate whose mandate has expired to submit a proposal for a list of candidates from a member of the RRA Council. The date on which that mandate expired is missing here. It doesn't matter if you, Madam President, have sent these requests on June 19nd and 22nd, whether the mandate expired on June 18th or perhaps on April 20th. We don't have that information, and that's why we needed Mrs. Marjanovic. She'll probably tell us later. Furthermore, the Committee, I apologize, not you, discussed the proposals submitted at the session held on 27 July 2009 and concluded that the lists of candidates submitted by the authorised applicants referred to in Article 23 paragraph 5. The Law on Broadcasting, and then the brackets speak what organisations, which are proposing, say, this is very important because of one of the candidates I want to comment on, these are domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are primarily concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights and are found in this report to be contrary to the provisions of Article 24 of this Law, because these proposals contained a number of candidates from the number of prescribed laws. It is truly amazing that if you have addressed a request and told him which number of candidates should be proposed, that someone should disobey such a request and suggest more than expected, that is, than the number requested, and that is indeed very irresponsible and irresponsible and certainly one, I suppose, for why the Committee was late with this proposal. Furthermore, the Committee's report said that at a session on September 4th, the Committee found that authorised proposings did not agree with the law within 15 days, and then Mrs Marjanovic said - using legal opportunities on the same day, the Committee held a public conversation with all proposed candidates. I'm really interested in what legal options are these? I'm a graduate forerunner, and I expect to be told on the basis of a member of that attitude, the point of that law and that, and not on the basis of legal possibilities. If Article 23(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The law on broadcasting predicts that this suggests, these domestic NGOs and citizens' associations, that I don't read the whole text, even though they don't do it within 15 days, so they don't do it again, where did you find the legal basis for you to do it? You say - using the legal opportunities of the same day you held a conversation with all the proposed candidates, Velimir Milosevic, Miljenko Deret, Rajko Djuric, Bozo Prelevic, Goran Petkovic and Milovan Vitezovic. On this occasion, the candidates are aware that, following the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting, 9 June 2009, the Committee was authorised to propose to the National Assembly a list of two candidates on the basis of the proposals submitted. Based on the proposals - yes, but that's not what this is about. The Committee, you say, at a session of October 19th most of the votes set out a list of two candidates, Goran Pekovic and Milovan Vitezovic, written here by Goran Pekovic, so I don't know what the real name is, it doesn't matter much, but it's interesting how you've come to choose from this number of people, i.e. to determine two candidates for the National Assembly. The Committee also concluded, you say, that it proposes to the National Assembly to comply with Article 164. The Rules of Procedure shall consider this list of candidates in order to enable the Council to work in full and thus avoid any adverse consequences. This is one of the flossules that you write, i.e. first the Government in your proposals, and here I see now the Assembly Committee and we have never received an answer - were these consequences to date, or until the day that this proposal will be adopted? If there were consequences, who is responsible for these consequences? We need to talk like that. You know, you're threatening that if this doesn't go through with an emergency procedure, there will be some negative consequences. We don't know what kind. It probably will, but probably the consequences have already occurred since the past deadlines were when this job was to be done. Who, Mrs. Marjanovic, is responsible for why this has not been done and who is responsible for the consequences that have possibly occurred? I have an interesting proposal here for this Mr. Goran, I don't know, I apologize, on the one hand it says Pekovic, on the other, I don't know who he is and I don't know his real name, but I find some things in my biography interesting. Master Goran Petkovic or Petrovic is a regular professor of the Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade and then, among other things, from 2001 to 2005 he served as Director of the Centre for Professional Development of the University of Art, they are particularly important, please pay attention to his activities in the coordination of several capital projects. These are, above all, projects of consultation in the fields of culture, art and media for the University of Art "Ulan Bator" from Moldova, as well as for the institutions of culture from Georgia. So, if this is his recommendation, then it's really good work. This Mr. Launcher is also significant, writes here, action related to media legislation in Serbia That's what's interesting here. He's supposed to be a member of an independent regulatory body, and you're actually representing him as a government man. Here it is proposed by NGOs, and you here say that it is the driver of significant actions related to media legislation in Serbia, and from 2005 to 2009, it was a member of the City Culture Commission of the City of Belgrade. Since 2008, the president has been the working group of the Ministry of Culture for Professional Development in Culture and Media. Ladies and gentlemen and honored citizens follow the work of this House, do you think this gentleman is a representative of some NGOs or a representative of the Government? Obviously, this is a man of the regime, and as a man of the regime, not entering, therefore, into the other parts of his biography, it's simply unaccountable for him to be a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. This broadcasting agency is baptized as an independent regulatory body, and here we have a man from the ministry, the official of the City of Belgrade. So it's really amazing and quite unserious of you. I don't know why you have any impressions, or you're assuming that these things can promote serious people in this House. Furthermore, we have a proposal to elect seven members, the programme board of Serbia's broadcasting institution from the ranks of MPs. Now imagine what this report continues to tell us, so I read well the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at a session held on 19 October 2009, considered the proposals of candidates for the selection of seven members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, from the order of MPs. This should not be disputed, because if the law so provides and if Article 5 is respected, The constitution that says - that it is guaranteed and recognised the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens, so if the work and influence of political parties is recognised, which is completely normal, proportionately the size and strength of a political party at a certain point, but when we move forward, we will see here something that does not fit into this, I would say, preamble to this report. The Committee on Culture and Information, held on 26 May, concluded on 26 May 2009, and today on 16 November that same year, the Committee found that five members of the Programme Committee, according to the report, of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, were elected from the order of MPs, on the basis of the provisions of members 92. The Law on Broadcasting expired on 25 May 2009, and two members of the mandate are due to expire, then you say, on 29 September 2009. Then again, we have an interesting recognition, which we normally knew, but now only for the sake of the public, since the Law of Broadcasting has not been established as a proposal of members of the Programme Committee, which is elected by the National Assembly of People's MPs, the Committee has decided to address the President of Parliament, so that Parliament should address parliamentary groups, that parliamentary groups propose their candidates, and indeed on this list of MPs, we have no objection because it is a matter of selecting parliamentary groups, this is similar to when we choose parliamentary committees, etc., it is important to establish criteria, to know how many places they belong to, and of course, that each parliamentary group will propose the one that it thinks is best in this business. Now we've got something, Mrs. Marjanovic, I don't know if this was a mistake for you, but given this material, I'd say it wasn't. You say -- the board also accepted a proposal for a list of 12 candidates proposed by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. You don't write anywhere in the report that you've discussed it at all, nor in this preamble of the report have you predicted it and suddenly a list of 12 candidates proposed by the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and then you're making one disastrous thing and this really in the voting day, Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, you should not accept that this is the way you vote. How? The Committee, he said, concluded that a single list of 19 candidates has been submitted to the National Assembly for review under an emergency procedure. This can't be a unique proposal. We have a proposal for a list of members of Parliament, we have a proposal for a list of candidates proposed by the Broadcasting Agency. I don't know how the board could deliver this to us as a unique list. I hope you'll ask the board to separate this up to the voting day, so that the MPs can vote separately for one and the other list, because indeed, this would be a vote for grandmothers and frogs. Someone may vote for a list of MPs, but he has no idea how to vote for the list of these candidates proposed by the Broadcasting Agency. And the board itself, I read at the beginning, said this was just a proposal from the MPs. When it comes to the list of candidates for the programme board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, who are elected at the proposal of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, for a period of three years, we really have a proposal here to miraculously marvel at the biography of some of these people. There are more and more people here who would be competent for this job and who, based on these biographies, I don't know any of them personally, but based on these biographies, it's obvious that more than half of them have no slight connection to this program council, or the jurisdiction of this program council. It is obvious that only those people will be chosen through whom, as I said at the beginning, the RRA, or again the Government, will do whatever it wants in the media sphere. We have the first proposal, biography Dr. Andrija Kopilovic, among other things, says - it is credited for introducing religious education to state schools in Serbia, is a member of the government's commission, here again the government's commission, for achieving and organising religious teaching in Serbia's schools, from the very beginning. In 2005, he was elected a member of the National Educational Council in the Serbian Parliament, with a term of six years. Is it possible that you have to choose the same man in multiple functions? Is it possible there isn't a certain number of people who could be deployed to these functions? Of course, it's not about that, it's about you already having a vetted man working for you for the government at the Educational Council, so now he can continue at the RRA Programme Council. Then we have, say, a biography with an explanation of the candidacy, a certain Zivko Kalentić. He says it's a football coach. It's really amazing. Maybe the man is a great coach, but what does a football coach have to do with the RRA has to do with it, I couldn't explain it to myself, maybe Ms. Marjanovic will introduce us to it. We also have a member of a shooting club from Nis, a certain Lidija Mihajlovic. What a member of the shooting club has to do with the RRA and what to do, I really don't know if anyone can explain it to us. We have a certain Jelena Stanic - Maric. Its biography says that she graduated from the Faculty of Economics and of all other characteristics says that she uses the computer, uses the Internet, has a driver's license of the B category, and that her interests are history and political economy. My people, are these characteristics for such a significant role you're going to assign to this woman? We also have interesting, and I couldn't explain to myself, some genius, you'll see -- Prvoslav Plassic is called the genius, which he said since 1 May, was the director of the PR, and then from 1 May 2003 to early 2004 he is a media adviser and relations with the public of the interior minister in the cabinet of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So again, a government man, again a regime man, and yet he cannot be in the opinion of the SRS in an independent regulatory body in any case. Any trace of this gentleman's work résumé has been lost since 2004, does not say what he was doing, but it says that since 1964 he has been employed in Radio Television Belgrade as a media researcher and opinionary of communication and analysis of radio and television development and programming content. It remained unclear here, as I read it, at the same time he was at the Ministry and on Radio TV. Whether his job was still there, whether he was doing two jobs at the same time, something can't be understood. But now listen to this genius, which is its reference in marketing - "Post office of Serbia", "Electroprivreda Serbia", I'll just read something, "Automoto Union of Yugoslavia", "The Industry of Building Material "Toza Markovic" Kikinda, *Hemik* Kikinda, "Pivar" Skopje, "Trebjesan Niksic", Sports Society "Red Star", "Eltim" Belgrade, "Dunav Insurance", "Red Flag" Kragujevac, "Beoptrol Shel", "Merkator" Ljubljana, "EI" Nis, "Beneton" and "Lutra" Belgrade. Imagine, he is in the marketing of "Lutra" consultant, and was in the MUP at the time the minister was killed by the owner of Lutra Dusan Mihajlovic. You're going to vote for him now, you're really amazing. Next, this genius, imagine so many jobs that he does one man, really good for him. Where else was the consultant? "Borac" Cačak, Radenska, "Prohor water" Bujanovac, "Festival of short film and documentary film, "Paracinka" Paracin, watch out, skip every third or fourth, I don't read everything, not to waste time. But it is interesting that he was a consultant and "Lisce" from Ljubljana, "Finko" Belgrade, "JAZAS", "UNICEF", "Droga portoroš", "Ofta Gas", "Beka Moptel" Belgrade, "TV Novosti" Belgrade, "Delta Holding" Belgrade, "Knjaz Milos" Arangelovac, "City Administration" Novi Sad, "The Municipality of Zrenjanin" - I don't know if he was an adviser to Goran, I can't remember his last name, Čoka Municipality, the Ministry of Culture of Serbia, there he is, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Department for Higher Education of Serbia, the Ministry of Capital Investments, the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Energy Efficiency of the Republic of Serbia, the European Agency for Reconstruction, etc. So, this is my dear colleagues, it's just amazing that you like this man, maybe he's great at his job, but the fact that he's been doing all this and he's in all possible ministries and I don't know how many municipalities where the Democrats are in power, really, it can't be recommended to him at all. On the contrary, that every time you claim to be, when you pass a law and you claim, that under this law you will form an independent regulatory body, we in the SRS regularly draw your attention - do not lie to yourself or to the citizens of Serbia. You're the government, you can choose as a congregation majority, as the ruling majority, you can choose whoever you want, with 126 votes, and that's nothing questionable. But, then say, don't say that this is the man I just read all this about, don't say that he's independent that he has nothing to do with the ruling majority and the DS. No one can trust you on the basis of what man wrote in his biography and what he saw on the Committee on Culture and Information. So from all of this, it's obvious that the RRA is still unfortunately not going to fulfill its role as elected. Last night we had a chance, or already yesterday afternoon we had a chance to see after the news was announced that his Holiness Patriarch had retired from the Serbian Paul, some TVs immediately adjusted their program, not waiting for the government to officially declare the Day of Grief. But some of the TVs showed some of their shows by the late evening hours. A TV screened through a cable operator from Serbia played music by midnight. On purpose, from time to time, I was switching to see how long even after midnight, when the sad day was officially on, there was still music on that TV. It's amazing that the RRA doesn't notice. They didn't pick up today either. It's about the World Plus TV. I have no intention of hiding. I don't know whose it is, or who the world plus is, who usually broadcasts music. The Pink TV broadcasts episodes of "Farme" yesterday until that "Dnevnik" also did not adapt to the new programming scheme, only after the Dnevnik. However, some films were at stake, but of course we expect from this RRA, and we expected it before, to react, not only yesterday or possibly today, if someone violates the government's decision to declare the Day of Grief, but we expect it and we expect it all the time since this agency exists. Unfortunately, the RRA as the popular name was never advertised when it was obvious that there was a need for it. On Friday night, we are on the same TV "Pink" in the middle of the "National Log", as part of the news about elections in the territory of the false state of Kosovo, in these Shiparian elections, which are of course irregular and should be unrecognizable from the state of Serbia, in the middle of Dnevnik we could, all who watched "Dnevnik" see Serbia and write -- Republika Srpska. Serbia, as far as I'm concerned, KIM, writes the Republic of Kosovo on the part where KIM should write. Really amazing, a TV with a national frequency. At least I haven't read it to a single newspaper this weekend, which is really amazing. These show programs and reality show programs that show up on "B92" and "Pink" are something that's really devastating for young people who watch it, especially now in these series, amazing things happen. It says there it's not allowed to look at children under 12, but there are things that are inappropriate and younger than 18 years old. Both shows show up, no appointments, whenever you turn "Pink" or "B92", except for "The News," the terms reserved for "The News," you'll just see it. No psychologist, no sociologist who appears in public, has said a single positive thing about these reality programs, but the RRA has no objections, at least they're not in public. The other day we had a chance to read in the paper that there was some scandalous show on TV Pink, what's the name of that quiz... "The Moment of Truth" is called, someone tells me that "The Moment of Truth", in that quiz, the host was asking, as we read in the newspaper, scandalous questions to some participant of the quiz, and the RRA responded. How? They said, at least that's how the media published it, that the RRA states that the "Current of Truth" on TV Pink is broadcast only after midnight. Since then, they've been broadcast before at 21 hours, now they've moved to 22, and that's certainly a better time to watch in winter than in 21, a better term. And what's done is done to no one. Who can do what Monopolies Zeljko Mitrovica, media monopolies and TV Pink? No one can do to him, no one can do to him. We also heard something yesterday that burned every normal man's ears, again on one television with a national frequency, within the news. It says -- yesterday's elections were held, so it's said, I think they said on the territory of the fake state of Kosovo, but it says -- Serbs lost power in two municipalities in Strpc and Novi Brdo. That's amazing. So if it's done, if it's done unconsciously then it's a total ignorant, if it's done consciously, I'm afraid that, then it's a disaster, then it's a scandal. How can someone in Serbia say that in yesterday's Shiptar, unrecognized, fake Serbian elections, they lost power in some municipalities? It's just amazing, and she hasn't heard from the RRA again, and she had to. Isn't that right, Mr. Odalovich? It's a disaster and a terrible thing to say, really? It simply passes, word for word, case by case, it happened by accident, it happened on purpose, it needs the public in Serbia to get used to the fact that someone is ready for some special relationship with the fake state of Kosovo, with the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is KIM. It is obvious that, if it were not, then I do not believe that Minister Bogdanovic would have happened, however, we cannot be surprised, with the fact that he was the minister in the first Shiptar government, the false state of Kosovo. The minister said the other day he couldn't be allowed to receive a salary from two governments. The minister admits there are two governments in Serbia. Minister, there is only one government - the government of the Republic of Serbia, and what the minister called a government should, the minister had to apologize if he made a lapus, and along the way we learned that his wife belonged to that group of people who receive salaries from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and from that false authority in the false republic of Kosovo. Here, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the public prosecutor, certainly the RRA, regardless of what the minister said, must take care of the constitutional order and the fact that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. They told my colleagues about the commercials, about who has the monopoly on commercials. We're more... over commercials, or over advertising space... We've talked about this more than once, and it's a public secret that if you want to advertise directly on some television that it's more expensive for you than going through Gilas's agency, because Gilas pre-renowned the entire advertising space, and what kind of commercials we can watch, it's still amazing that he's not responding to the RRA. We know that by law it's allowed to advertise beer, but to advertise it like that in crates, in a way, we think it's inappropriate, not to have a positive effect, especially on young people, especially that scary commercial with Coca-Cola, where Coca-Cola goes from one vein to another. It's really an obvious association of something inappropriate and something that shouldn't be seen on our television. It's interesting that since there's been an RRA, they've never responded at the time of election campaigns. You will all agree that during pre-election campaigns and during the electoral silence so much violates the law that it is amazing and has never been published by the RRA, she has never made a comment on why when going to an election campaign from the level of government, why the resources of the government, or the resources of this people, are being used in the election campaign, especially when doing so during the electoral silence, when cutting down any tape, etc. It's not a topic for the RRA, it's not interesting, and we're wondering, what are these people, what is this agency doing anyway? I have made quite a number of examples that are and should be interesting, but I must tell you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that we are in this agenda, within this agenda, that we have a proposal for an agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of Macedonia. Since when has the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in Serbia been recognised as the Republic of Macedonia? What are you people doing? Does anyone take care of the Constitution, international law, UN Resolutions? This is really amazing. It cannot be treated as a mistake and such mistakes must not happen. Repeatedly and several times here an example of how this Rules of Procedure is violated by the President of the Administrative Committee and the Assembly's majority on the Administrative Committee, and I must tell you, you too, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, because you are on the basis of article 27. The Rules of Procedure responsible for the application of the Rules of Procedure are broken by not allowing Lydia Dimitrijevic and Elena Christmas-Talijan to express their will. They both, as you know, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, resigned in parliamentary seats and on those resignations Nenad Konstantinovic said they were not properly filed, and so all the resignations that have been filed so far and were in line with the Rules of Procedure, but you have heard several times, since you have a special relationship with the SRS, unfortunately negative, and you are experiencing, or you are showing that SRS MPs are Members of the second order. We will insist on distracting you. Maybe you'll just go to the Rules of Procedure and do what's right for you. We want the citizens of Serbia to hear about it. When it comes to these two proposals, you heard, you have bad suggestions and I expect Mrs. Marijanovic to answer the questions we asked during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30424	Thank you. Of course there are no MPs in this House. There are those who do not respect the Rules of Procedure and make projections regarding their own disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. I'm glad that's not a large number of your parliamentary group. It's a smaller number. Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30425	First of all, I think we've convinced you by the power of the argument not to accept this list of candidates. Secondly, I am giving you the remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group to join Europe as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30426	Mrs. Marjanovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30427	Thank you, President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it may be unnecessary to say, but every committee, including the Committee on Culture and Information, is the collective working body of the Assembly and all decisions we make there together. Four members of the SRS and the Committee, as well as the tide, have been very active in the work of the Committee, have had the opportunity to influence, and will continue to have the opportunity to influence the vote and finally make decisions that are within the competence of the Committee on Culture. I will not repeat certain processes that took place in the last one, I would say, a year on our committee, and regarding the election of the RRA Council because many details have already been presented in previous presentations, but since it has been asked a few questions, I will try on behalf of the Committee to answer some of them and give some explanations. To begin with, there have also been discussions in some exhibitions about the role of the RRA Council, which is an independent regulatory body, established by the Law on Radio-Difusion, and the programme committee of the Serbian Radio-Difusing Institution, i.e. the advisory body of RTS. So it's not the same bodies, nor are they supposed to work the same way. Thus, neither is the way choice nor biography necessary for the work of one body or another is identical. On the contrary, they differ greatly. As far as the RRA Council is concerned, I repeat, today we have a debate on the selection of one member, so from Article 23. Law, item 2, point 5, and on the proposal of domestic NGOs and citizens' associations. You know that, unfortunately, although the law has the primary intensities and the intention of the proposings to agree and submit a agreed list, it did not come to this within two deadlines, and then the Committee, based on the changes that we have made here in the Assembly in June, had to cut that thing down, to say the same thing, and to choose from the six candidates who have proposed two. This decision could not have been easy in any way, because it certainly would have suggested that any candidate who did not enter this most extensive choice of two candidates would have objections, which is quite natural and logical. What is important is to point out, since there has been a lot of talk here about it – your candidates or our candidates – no candidate for the RRA Council belongs to any of us. You know exactly who the promoters are. The Committee only had the possibility to choose two of those proposed by those organisations. We did it the best way possible. Surely someone will be able to say, and why is there no one else? What has somehow satisfied me as the president of the Committee is that all members have voted for at least one of the proposed two candidates that we have proposed to you here today. As for the public conversation, therefore, the talks with the candidates, the law leaves us with that possibility. It was not our obligation, but it was our possibility for a member of the 24th, so that the Committee could hold a public conversation with the candidates before the final statement on which one of these two would be elected. We didn't have to do it, but I thought it would be more transparent and much better to do it, given that we had to make one decision that was ultimately left to us and that can be interpreted in some unpopular way, that it was done behind the eyes of the public and we simply wanted to enable people who were proposed to present themselves to us and to see what their biographys, plans, programs. What we all did when we voted for these candidates was that they were primarily from the order of media experts and that they understood the matter they would deal with if they were elected to the RRA Council. I am not talking about specific biographies today and I am not talking today or on behalf of my party, my parliamentary group, but as president of the Committee. I think that we have our task, given all these circumstances, as the Committee have tried and I think we have done in accordance with the law and, to the best possible extent, well and in accordance with the deadlines laid down by the law. As for the Programme Committee of the Radio-Difusing Institute of Serbia or RTS, since this is more known to us as our public service, I do not have to talk much about candidates who have proposed parliamentary groups. On this occasion, I would like to thank the PUPS and New Serbia parliamentary groups, which also had candidates, but they understood that since we had seven members, seven seats on the Programme Committee, not all the parliamentary groups could be represented. At the end of the line, MPs working on the Programme Committee will not only represent their parliamentary group, but seven represent the Assembly in general and I believe they will do so in the best possible way. As for the list proposed by the RRA Council, the law only states in Article 92 that the RRA is authorised to propose the list. This is the only explanation, that is, the only instruction the law has imposed in this regard. The RRA conducted a public competition and based on the public competition, they elected those 12 candidates at their session. We, the fact is, we didn't discuss on the Committee on each individual candidate, because we thought it was ours just to realize that this list had arrived. The law has not authorized us to decide these candidates, but only to refer to the Assembly, today is the debate on candidates, and each of us will have the opportunity to plead. Among these people, I want to say that because of the explanation that the law imagines these people, from which the sphere of life should come, as was this debate about their biography. It wasn't about expertise here. The RRA Programme Committee plays an advisory role and plays a role in representing citizens' interests in general. In this group of 12 people there are fewer and more famous, there are athletes, doctors, cultural workers. So I can only say in general that this list, in a way, really represents a small representative group of citizens who should be of different angles to represent the interests of citizens and what they need and want to look at the public service. Since there have been a lot of words here about whether the Public Service is really broadcasting a program that is suitable for the Public Service and we have talked about the operation of RTS many times, I call on the MPs to choose this body in the voting day and allow them to work. Finally, to go back to the Broadcasting Agency Council again. This year, February 17th, the term of office of two members who have been proposed, one from the media associations and others from the ranks of NGOs, and I sincerely hope that we will finish the job quickly. On February 17th, next year, the term of office of members who were proposed by the first university, churches and religious communities and at the end of the AP Vojvodina and these proposals came to us and when the proposals of the AP Vojvodina, churches and religious communities arrived, we set up a committee, i.e. I scheduled the board when your proposals arrived. The university was late, and yesterday they submitted their proposal to us, or today. I simply thought we'd connect the material to the one the MPs received the other day. Tomorrow, the Committee will declare, if the Committee considers that we have received this material late and that we cannot conclude immediately, or on that list that came a little later, then it will be the decision of the Committee, but I repeat, in this particular case, in these three cases, the Committee will not have to discuss the candidates, or to decide on candidates, because the lists have been agreed and our task is only to deliver this to the Assembly as soon as possible. The explanation said an emergency procedure was needed, because it was possible that the formulation was not the most accurate but I don't think it might be necessary. So, the emergency procedure is because we all realized that the Broadcasting Agency Council should act as quickly as possible, and therefore, in my opinion, it was the only and very clear reason for this to be discussed in an emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your opportunity to talk about this. I absolutely agree with all my colleagues that it is necessary that in this home, not only on the board, but perhaps in the tide, we discuss reports of regulatory bodies, and I absolutely think of the Council of Broadcasting agencies as well. The reason why it hasn't been done on the board so far is because we are in a constant process selection and I would really like it and I want us to finish this job here as soon as possible and then we can in peace search that report and see if the agency has worked in the way that is necessary, since the Assembly has given them confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-16-0.u30428	I thank Mrs Marjanovic for all the clarifications related to the tendency of the legislator and the work of the committee. Before I conclude a joint single search, I would like to ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right of Article 93, would like to do so. Rules of Procedure? (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I want to replicate, she didn't understand me.) There was really nothing offensive about it. You're completely understood by your colleague, and there's really no basis for replication. It's not trendy, but it really isn't. She spoke with respect. You understood each other and there was no insult. There's no basis for replication. I thank you, but there really isn't. I am concluding a joint single search on the list of candidates... (The Faith of Radet, from the place: We are messengers of the second order in your eyes. You are certainly not an MP of the second order, you know it well and tend to speak it. I am concluding a joint single search on the List of Candidates for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and the List of Candidates for the members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will hold a selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and the selection of members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I thank you for your work today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
