ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 117 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, in accordance with Article 98(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly continue to work. (Employees in the hall resent that the number of MPs present does not see on the screen. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic and Vladan Batic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the proposing representative, I have called for the meetings of Vuk Djokovic and Dr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ružica Stojljković, Assistant Director at the Treasury Office, Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. I welcome them and our ministers here. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Friday 24 April 2009, so within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure and for a day according to Article 85(1). The Rules of Procedure are not set as the day on which the meetings are held, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with a record of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, since 26 February 2009, and the records of the First, Second and Third Session of the First regular session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am putting to the vote the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic since 26 February 2009. (Employees in the hall resent that the number of MPs present does not see on the screen. Please vote. In 125, 22 did not vote, out of 147 MPs. The record's been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 18 March 2009. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. (Employees in the hall resent that the number of MPs present does not see on the screen. ) Two out of 128 MPs did not vote for 126. I find that 126 out of the 128 MPs present, the Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 18 March 2009. Please participate in monitoring the course of the session. (DSS emissaries resent that the monitor system is not adapted to be able to monitor the vote. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 18, 19, 23, 25 and 26 March 2009. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 26th, 27th and 30th March 2009. (Employees in the hall resent that the number of MPs present does not see on the screen. ) You have to put a card to see, and you have a screen up. Please, there's a screen you can track on. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 26, 27 and 30 March 2009. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, as well as a proposal for a merger of discussions. Mrs. Comic, please continue our work. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, it did not vote 6, of 133 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic suggested putting the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political parties, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 13, it did not vote 140 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Dr Vladan Batic proposed that the draft law on amendments and additions of the Ministry Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 April 2009, be put on the agenda. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. He didn't lie to 141 of the 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Dragan Todorovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of the Business Centre "Usje" and the construction of a multi-functional centre "Usje" in New Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 April 2009. Please plead. For one, he did not vote 141 of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Proposed 80,162 voters to put on the agenda the draft smoking ban law in closed public and working rooms, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 19, he did not vote 131 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica's Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2009. Please plead. For 23, it did not vote 127, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed to put on the agenda an amending and supplementing law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for a decision to agree on amendments and amendments to the 2009 financial plans: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance; (b) the Republic Health Insurance Office; (v) the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 April 2009. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key and plead. For 124, it did not vote 18 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 April 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, he didn't vote one out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens be put on the agenda. Please plead. Three out of 126 MPs voted for 123. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Peace and Debt write-off on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 April 2009. Please make your statement on this proposal. Two out of 126 MPs voted for 124. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net fees and other receipts in the state administration and the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 April 2009, and I would like to make a statement. For 125, they didn't vote two out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90, paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, with the proposals for decisions to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2009 Financial Plans: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, the Bearing and Wearing of Goods, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Taxation of Income of Citizens, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises, the Proposal for the Law on the Amendments of the Law on the Amendments of the Laws of the Laws, the Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Justice, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First and the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice, the European Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court, the Court of the Court of the Court of First Instance, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the European Court of the European Court of the European Court of the European Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the European Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the European Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Court of the European Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion on proposals for putting on the agenda the acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Do you suggest counting? I ask the professional services to count the MPs who are here and this last vote will be held again. Dear Members of the People, please watch the results of the vote on your monitors. You can watch the results on your monitors. Mr Aligrudic asked that the count determine both the quorum and the number of those present and we will do so on the last vote. I'm asking professional services to do it. Gentlemen, if you want to follow the vote on your monitors, you need to insert your cards. You can see it, but fine, we'll count. All vice-presidents participate in the verification of all results. So it's quite clear that this is all right. Please, everyone who wants to be registered, please insert their cards into the MPs' units. Please allow the count that you have suggested to be completed. I ask the MPs to be... I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After break – 10.45]] Dear Members of Parliament, since we have come to the conclusion on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and a motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before I put to the vote a draft agenda in general, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. The results of the vote showed that the count found that there were 126 MPs who wanted to participate in the work and recorded themselves, or sitting in four fields from left to right on my part, including Mr Nikolic, Mrs Comic and myself. I put the draft agenda to vote... Please, would you like to insert the cards into the MPs' units? Please insert the cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. Will you allow us to work, please? I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will still finish counting today. Please allow professional services to count first the MPs in the first four fields and us from the presidency that we have inserted the cards and thus to determine the quorum. Otherwise, I'd like to inform you that we've established by electronic system that there are 126 MPs who have registered, but we'll also confirm it by counting, so that we can finally move on to work today. In the first four parts from left to right 126 MPs. Count them too, please. If we're going to count, we have to count everyone sitting in the hall in the quorum. Therefore, please allow the count to be completed. Not security, just MPs. Please, allow the count to be completed, that's what you suggested. 164 MPs present. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Since we have come forward, in fact, on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, on the basis of Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Who's against it? Are there any MPs who don't? Are there any abstentions? You won't plead. For 126, there were no 38 votes, out of 164 MPs, I find that the count found that 126 MPs, i.e. we set the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the 2009 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to decisions on amendments and amendments to the 2009 financial plans: (a) the Republic of the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) the National Employment Service, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, which the Government has submitted; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, which was filed by the Government; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Restoring and Deleting of Debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law on temporary wage reduction, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other revenue in the state administration and the public sector, which the Government has submitted; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation, which was submitted by the government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Mr. Obradovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18173	As far as this vote is concerned, we're going to react, we're going to look for official listing, and, if anything, on the side that you've found to be 126, I've seen at least one colleague who didn't vote for the agenda, and you said 126 was "yes". I wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A total of 11 members were injured on such a voted agenda. They're art. 27, 43, 45, 82, 83, 84, 85, 90, 153, 156 and 157. Namely, Article 15. The budget system law defines what must be an integral part of the session and material for the session when voting on the budget. The member explicitly says that the government, along with a draft budget, is delivering a memorandum on the budget; a draft budget; a plan to sell republican assets; a proposal for financial plans; a draft law on budget implementation. We got a budget proposal, he's ahead of us. We have plans for organisations, which are part of the budget and we have laws to implement the budget. I'm guessing you have no intention of selling anything, so you don't have to deliver a sales plan. It's said to be gone. However, you did not deliver a budget memorandum. The Legislative Committee must be declared because this is the direct violation of the Budgetary System Act. Since you obviously don't read it, I've prepared two texts of the law, one for the President of the Assembly, and the other for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18174	Mr. Canak has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18175	I'm advertising a breach of Article 102. Rules of Procedure. I think the President of the National Assembly has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, because it clearly states that, without the presidency's permission, neither the Bureau table nor the speakers can be accessed. If the speaker of the assembly thinks this assembly is working, I think it would have to maintain order, to prevent the staff of the Assembly and the employees of the Assembly from being attacked by MPs, who would not have noticed that they were present at their workplace. I don't think this assembly has to be defined now, but this practice has to get in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18176	We move on to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18177	Given the importance of this topic, given that the proposed budget rebalance with the accompanying laws on the agenda of the National Assembly is due to serious problems in which the state is located and because of the serious problem of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to look at the economic opportunities and situation in the country, without any ability to predict future events, taking into account and the fact, in the end, that, by breaking the law, in a way contrary to the positive regulations, you have proposed this agenda and started to lead this session, which has been shown for a short time, as well as especially in view of the merger of the agenda points with such serious content, I must suggest to the National Assembly that the search be carried out in a double period of time. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18178	Do you want it to be by electronic system or counting?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18179	I'd like the vote to be by count.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18180	You heard Mr. Aligrudic's proposal to double the time for discussion in the principled search. Who's in? ( 27) Who is against? Are there any abstentions? No, I don't. As only 27 MPs are in favour, I find Mr Aligrudic's proposal not accepted. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2009. We move to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, with proposals on granting consent to the decisions on amendments and amendments to the 2009 financial plans (a) to the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) to the National Employment Service; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxation of Citizens; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Retiremand and Debt on Obligation on Obligation for Obligation to Obligation; Proposal for the Legal Health Insurance; Proposal for Taxation of Public Payments, on the Proposion of Public Payments, and Retibilation of Othered Payments, and Payments on Public Payments, on Public Payments, Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; E-mail group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Dr Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you first that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Kasalovic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Nenad Popovic, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Marina Ragus, MP of the SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, with proposals on granting consent to the decisions on amendments and amendments to the 2009 Financial Plans (a) to the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) to the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, (v) to the National Employment Service; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing of Goods; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens; Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on Excises; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes; Proposal for an Act on the Law on Retirement and Debtation of Debts on Obligation; Proposal for a Law on Temporary Health Insurance; Proposal for a Law on Temporary of Payments, i. Mr Tomislav Nikolic advertised the Rules of Procedure, and then there are others.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18181	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we witnessed an unloved scene here that you yourself, as a representative of the ruling majority, and most of us created by entering this hall that wasn't prepared for work. I only ask you in future to ask the MPs if they want to be counted, not to come to these scenes, to prevent us from being hypocritically Nenad Canak warning us that we must not protect our rights and that Mr Senic here is a bit of a challenge to the fight, because we do not want to be counted. You in the Rules of Procedure don't have any provision for this behavior today. All the work here, every session here is out of the Rules of Procedure, don't bother to adjust the Rules of Procedure. We don't see any numbers on these little TVs. We don't know what quorum you've been working on, where you haven't worked. You're hiding it from us. An official who has been counting MPs has been doing this for years for power and you know it very well. I absolutely doubt his count. I'll never let him count us. So please, don't treat us like we're not MPs, like we're not human. Each of us has the right to state whether he wants to be counted or not. If I say I don't want to be counted, don't put me in a position to argue with one of the state's tenants. It's not true that he can't be in the O.R. You always have at least 10 employees in the National Assembly building sitting here in the benches behind us, sometimes with MPs, it doesn't bother you at all. So either adjust the Rules of Procedure or go back to the O.R. where everything is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. There's no question about the approach of the speakers without permission. Every seat in this room is a pay phone. Which speakers were we approaching without permission? When you challenge us to react more bile, it's because in this room there's a spirit of intolerance being carried out by the ruling majority. You're a poor majority when you're patching 126, and you're not sure whether or not you're there, but let's just say, Ambassador Riza Halimi, you welcome someone who's got a cold sun. Please, I don't want to complain about this anymore. Please or adjust the Rules of Procedure to this room and everything we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18182	Time, Mr. Nikolic. Thank you. In response, I must say, i.e. to appeal to the members of 230 and 231: "The MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. The MP cannot be denied entry and stay in the building of the National Assembly. The MP on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session." I'd just like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18183	Madam President, today we are talking about the most important thing in the Republic of Serbia. There is nothing more important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today than the budget rebalance. Rebalancing is not one ministry, but a rebalancing of all ministries. I am very sorry that she is present here, otherwise very distinguished Ms. Dragutinovic, the only one. Is it Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and other economic ministers afraid to come here? (President: Please just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?) Article........................................................................................................................... 27 and 194. Please, I'm speaking 194. 104 and 27. Please let the President of the Assembly exercise your right and invite the Prime Minister and all economic ministers to come here, not to send a lady, who is really struggling for this, both manly and all the honors. Where are those men from the government? Let them come here and show us this budget. Excuse me, Mr. Obradovic, I'm talking about economic ministers. This is the subject of economic ministers. Please, there is nothing more important today, and it seems to me that this government is insulting the dignity of the MPs. This assembly has chosen this government. Please exercise your right and urgently call Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18184	Mr. MP, the government has designated the most competent persons to be involved in the work with us today. If you are not satisfied, of course there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest by my reply that the Assembly in the voting day be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like some? Yeah. All right. Mr. Vlajko Senić asked for a replica, just register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18185	Dear Chairman, Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry you brought me up. I had no intention of talking about it at all. I acted here the way every normal man should react when he sees two stronger men attacking a weaker man. I have no intention... That's how you defended the Wolf? Are you finished with the DSS for not voting in favour of the Russian agreement? I have no intention of fighting with you or challenging you to a duel. I think you'd react in a similar situation. At one point, the man was between you and Mr Markicevic. You couldn't see what you wanted to do from here. I showed up there to protect him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18186	Mr Tomislav Nikolic according to the Rules of Procedure and then Mr Markicevic replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18187	It's interesting that you didn't ask me if I was satisfied with the answer and that you didn't offer me the opportunity to vote on my objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. I think that's because you feel too much about yourself as a government. I could not believe that you would read to me the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by which an MP was required to participate in the work of the National Assembly and to participate in the quorum of the National Assembly. Let me tell Mr. Senić, Mr. Senic, if you haven't seen what's going on, why'd you run like a fly without a head? If you think that Mr. Markicevic and I would attack someone physically in this room without being provoked, challenged or offended, you're wrong. You wanted to be a hero, Mr. Senic, to defend one man from two. No, it's not. I just stood in front of him and said – you can't count us and you can't count us, it's not your right, go to Veljko Odalovic, then the number of him, if he has ordered you, and I've called Mr. Secretary - don't bring a man into an awkward situation to carry out your orders and to harass the MPs. Mr. Senic, I stand at your disposal whenever you want, for whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18188	Mr. Nikolic, it was my duty to respond to your comment. Actually, I know you're never satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18189	You shouldn't be bringing up those intimate things of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18190	Funnyness is not your strong suit either. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: No. You don't want to. I've read your thoughts. All right, Mr. Markicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18191	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Minister and Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, I reject all qualifications Mr. Vlajko Senic has sent to my account. I agree with this all that Mr. Nikolic has said, I would find no better word than a fly without a head. I hope to speak to the gentleman who is brotherly and friendly, who is a worker in this service, I can only tell – do not be defended by Vlajko Senic, as he defends you, so was Vuk Draskovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18192	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, replica. Mr. Aligrudic, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Marash's Rules of Procedure advertised, I didn't realize he was advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18193	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating violations of Articles 104 and 27. Madam President, at least I expected you to be involved in making circuses out of this assembly, which we had a chance to see half an hour ago. All this is happening right now, at a time when we need to discuss budget rebalancing for 2009, I don't think it's like this home we're in. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and let us start working on the subject for which we are gathered today. Citizens watch this, and all of us sitting here feel really uncomfortable. You must adhere to Article 2.7 and indeed take care of this Rules of Procedure and conduct this session as planned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18194	Thank you. Please help me make the atmosphere dignified, I can't do it alone. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18195	I'll help you with that. By having to report for the replica to Mr Senic, who chose in his brief and confusing presentation to call the DSS for the way they voted or did not vote for one of the agenda points. However, the problem is in the next. When someone wants to be so loud from the ranks of the ruling coalition and warn the opposition party why or why they didn't vote for something, and the whole udrum here this morning is being conducted precisely because it can't be easily determined how many of those who are in the mood to vote, who are in the mood to give a voting quorum, which is normal political practice everywhere in the world. There is no possibility that the opposition can be forced to give a quorum and thus participate in the work, of course, when it comes to the other way of participation in the work, we are there all the time, there is no problem, but there is simply a confusion. So, that break that came today, Mr. Senic, and everything that happened, it has something to do with how the National Assembly is run, and how the ruling coalition is trying to create an atmosphere where it won't know whether or not there are 126 MPs, to create an atmosphere in which the opposition can't know that if it doesn't want to be identified for voting at that moment, and that's actually creating a completely bad atmosphere. Then you find it appropriate, in replicas or in exchange barrage fires with other MPs, hearing a throwout, which will be from when Parliamentarianism is in the world and as long as it is, to throw to one parliamentary group why it did not or did participate in the vote for a single point. That really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18196	For the sake of the public, I must say that we had all the votes even on two basiss. Mrs. Gordana Komic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18197	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100. During the session today, Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly injured him by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Markicevic. If there were any hope that I would ask the President of the Assembly to apply the measures of the Rules of Procedure and, after warning, to give them a warning, I would do so, but if the MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Markicevic do not understand, feel, and do not realize that they cannot threaten, behave aggressively and aggressively towards the official of the Assembly who has been called to count, then there is no hope that any warning and any criminal measure would lead to the awareness that we Members of the people are equal to each other and we can demonstrate the behaviour for which the reminder is warranted. But to treat an official of the Assembly, who was invited to do his job, and his job is to count the MPs in the O.R., is something that, unfortunately, there is no punishment in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I just want to express my personal regret that I have had to testify that two, otherwise extraordinary MPs, Miroslav Markicevic and Tomislav Nikolic, so much to lose their nerve because this session is attended by 126 MPs, that they are ultimately inadmissible and inappropriately treated by an official and employee in the National Assembly building and in the National Assembly Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18198	Mrs. Comic, acting as Parliament Speaker, I couldn't react differently to the circumstances that were obvious here but as I reacted, but your proposal can be spoken to by the Assembly in the day of voting whether there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, if you like. Do you want to? No, I don't. ) Mr Markicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18199	Dear Mrs. Comic, my esteemed Vice President, you know well how I feel about you and this assembly and almost all the MPs here. It's kind of a folk thing to say, brotherly thing, you didn't need it, but if this is politics, there's no problem. I just want to tell the citizens of Serbia the truth about how I see her. Why are we in this room at all, when everyone knows it, and the government, and the MPs of the ruling coalition and the opposition that there are no working conditions? That's what your employees know. Do Serbian citizens know that there is a car that drives material between two National Assembly buildings? Do citizens know that they have nowhere to go, that they have no place to sit, that they are standing in the hallways of a six-foot ladder, where the guests of this tall house have torn up, say, a suit? Who's gonna pay them for the suit? Should I open a story here that's why we're here? Is it because some investments in this National Assembly, suspicious, seven or eight years ago, are covered? Do the citizens on this monitor here need, not just us present, to see that there are a majority of 126 MPs here? Was Mrs. Comic a witness that the chairman said, of the 126 present, 128 voted in favour? All right, lapus, it's nothing controversial, but what kind of picture are we giving to the citizens? Today we need to pass the law, and these days, which decides on standard, on life, on medicines for pensioners, on the unemployed, on many, on how they will live in the next six months, and you are already preparing a rebalance for June, and you are, for God's sake, angry. We're playing people here, cultural education, civilization, and we're deciding millions of citizens here. We cannot clearly show these citizens that there is a relevant majority of 126 here. Is that a problem? Is that a problem? I'd like Mrs. Comic to answer if there are any working conditions here. Do you all know this system? Now I'm supposed to mention officers in the Assembly, so you're gonna punish them later? The system isn't operational, and the money is given. Who's going to answer that question? Let the first Mrs. Comic answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18200	I couldn't take the contents of your statement as a replica, so I ask you to actually use the future replicas institute in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Zika Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18201	I want to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 104, although I did report long before some speakers who got the word, who said what I wanted to say themselves. I'll be very brief. What we have now had the opportunity to hear from some opposition MPs is the greatest hypocrisy we have ever had and to hear and to see. It is also an indicator when culture, way of treating people who do their job cannot change by simply changing the party's name. It is also an indicator of who today presents himself as the European right hand and how much in fact these people cheat on these citizens, constantly calling for them in each of their presentations. If you have punished SRS MPs for even less crimes than we have a chance to see on a daily basis by some opposition MPs sitting in benches today, I believe that today, Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, and that's what the Assembly needs to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18202	Thank you. I would like to say to you, and to the other MPs, that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the same content that has already been spoken of. Then it seems to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so please take care of it. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18203	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the Assembly. The basic respect of the Rules of Procedure and the basic respect for dignity is to speak the truth in this house. In the address of Mrs Comic, and for the sake of public speaking, the fact was ignored that the moment you had 125 MPs was declared to vote 126. At that moment, Mr Batic, Sasa Milenić, Bajro Omeragic, Dusan Bajatovic and Riza Halimi were absent, after which you only had 126 entry. So, send and abuse an officer to declare that you had 126 at the moment you were 125, is the greatest insult to the dignity of all of us sitting here, we trust our eyes, and we can't believe the experience of those who at least shamed Bodrum, and the vote from Thessaloniki and the abuse of cards and mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18204	Please, the vote has been checked and counted, and I really don't think we can talk on this subject today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18205	I call on Article 27 and the way you or the other chairman are holding the session. You, as one of the predecessors said, took away a word for much more naive things, or did not allow for a word, or for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, or for a replica in the National Assembly, or even not allow replicas in situations where these replicas or the need for replicas were obvious, calling for so-called. the discretionary right, which the Rules of Procedure gives us, which I do not interpret as discretionary right, but only as an opportunity to assess whether the conditions of this article which provides for a replica are met. Today, while this is being done and while you're assessing whether someone has fulfilled the right to a replica or not, I guess the one who answers and reports for a replica has a need to say something about what he thinks is causing his replica. You did the evaluation at the beginning, you can't do it in the end. In the end, I didn't notice that in that sense, by your current standards, anyone hurt the Rules of Procedure and abused him that way. I therefore believe that you must take more care of the way you conduct the session within the meaning of Article 27. As much as you'd like to apply even stronger standards than these, stricter standards, and stop this barbaric fire, regardless of what you've opened up your own way of holding a session, by non-functioning this hall, by not applying or inappropriately applying the Rules of Procedure to conditions that can't be achieved here for normal work, so I'm asking you to keep in mind those citizens of Serbia who, precisely because of today's agenda, expect that something bad will happen to them because the economy is collapsing. He's collapsed because this country is run by an incompetent government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18206	Mrs. Gordana Komic, uses the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18207	I am seeking the right to reply because of the untrue mention of the context of my name in the presentation of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Jorgvanka Tabakovic. For all failures, for all political differences, for all done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when it comes to MPs, I am at your disposal, the parliamentary group to whom I belong, the president of the Parliament group and anyone you consider handsome, favourable, necessary, to use for political duels. But it wasn't about that. This was about the event that two MPs, whom I respect and respect and whose behaviour surprised me, MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Miroslav Markicevic, were unworthy, unworthy, aggressive and threatened to address an employee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I said that there was no hope that any criminal measure of the Rules of Procedure would create awareness that this should not be done, I would ask the President of the National Assembly to give the measure. Since this is about humanity, not to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have only expressed regret and hope that we will never again testify that the MP is completely unequal, aggressive, endangering the employee in the service of the National Assembly, who was invited to do his job. The job of those who count the messengers present in the O.R. is to count them all. The job is to count on it to the chairman. If the vote counts, count how much it is for, how much it's against, and how much it's held back. It is a fact that MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Markicevic also know very well. I also have a proposal, because I understand the desire and the will to prove that the truth is something that is not, which is that the ruling majority today does not have 126 and that the programme of measures that are ahead of us and the adoption of the rebalancing will not succeed, and I completely understand it, it is frustrating, but there is a way for all of us to come out of this honorably, and that is to leave the MP Tomislav Nikolic and the MP Miroslav Markic, not publicly but personally and humanly sorry to the official of the National Assembly for aggressive behaviour and to leave the unpleasant event behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18208	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has applied, but has no basis for replication, since Mrs Comic, without any insult, has only explained her previous discussion. You can do it by your book.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18209	Mrs. Djukanovic, if someone tells you you have no humanity, you can say it's not a basis for replication, but if they tell me, I think I should answer a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18210	I'm sorry, but it's not said that you don't have any, it's said that you don't have any.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18211	I'm sorry, I just wanted to say to Judge Comic, if I may, since she's already delivered the verdict, and she's made me secretly apologize. Of course I would apologize if I had made a move that would endanger his physical dignity, the man I neither attacked nor threatened him, I just told him – don't count us and grab his hand that counted us. Mrs. Comic, ask him if I hurt him, and I ask you, what category was that supposed to put us in that path, are we in favor, or are we abstention? What was he counting when he was counting Serbian Progressive Party MPs? What did it say on the list – what are we for? I told him – don't count us, we don't attend the hall, and you found the basis for Mrs Tabakovic's replica just because she said you belonged to a political party who stole votes by voting from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. Mrs. Dejanovic did not say that she had no basis for replication, because you were indeed stealing, and you were also convicted in court, but gave you the opportunity to hold another one of my tracks on humanity and heroism. Don't, because I'm sure no one in this room, who doesn't insult me, would not attack. He was carrying out a pointless warrant to count us. Find me a business provision that took him that time to count us. You voted to enter a 124 vote rebalancing procedure. (President: That's not true. Here, it says in the stenogram. There were 126 in the hall, 124 for – and you rule a country with 124 votes on budget rebalancing, and you think it can go without consequences. If everything was okay in the O.R. you were taking five minutes off. 50 people can't be provoked because they're all crazy. It's your behavior that's too arrogant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18212	Time, Mr. Nikolic. He wants the word Mr. Markicevic. You don't have a word. What's the base of the call? (Miroslav Markicevic: I want to speak in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18213	Madam Chairman, you insulted me as a man, that I had no right to a replica when someone was talking about my humanity and my aggression. Mrs. Comic, as far as an apology to the gentleman is concerned, it's not a problem for me as a Christian at all. I only ask you, when will you apologize to the millions of citizens you have robbed and deceived? Today with this rebalancing, they should pay for your fraud, instead of arresting those in Kopalnik, ten million euros each. This mess of yours should be paid by citizens and poor women – that's true and that's the real point of what's going on today in the Assembly, not by you, as some judge here in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18214	The word has a representative of Proposer Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister You have no right to a replica. [[Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: I want a replica.]] Mrs Dragutinović, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18215	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, respected citizens of Serbia, allow me to present to you a proposal for a rebalance of the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. I will present to you the basic elements of budget rebalancing, as well as the economic and fiscal policy that will be implemented through the proposed rebalancing. Also, with rebalancing, I suggest that the Assembly adopt both follow-up taxes and other laws. We are witnessing the most dramatic collapse of the world's financial order since 1929. As a small open economy, we are exposed to external shocks, but the impact on Serbia's economy is stronger than expected. The predictions change quickly. Namely, the estimates that were in place a few months ago are now out of order. Unfortunately, they are revised to lower projections concerning growth, the volume of foreign trade, but also the price of raw materials, real estate, capital prices, foreign investment flows, credit ratings and the like. Global economic opportunities have deteriorated greatly in recent months, with strong consequences for Serbia's economy. The latest, the sixth IMF estimate in April 2009, predicts that the world economy will drop by 1.3% in 2009, and in January 2009, it was believed that the global economy will still grow by 0.5%. In 2009, a higher drop in economic activity in developed economies is expected: in the US by 2.8%, in the EU by 4% and modest growth in developing countries of 1.6%, while Central and Eastern European countries will record a 3.7% decline in gross domestic product. The global economic crisis is deepening and overturning to the real sector through the decline of demand and trust, both consumers and producers and investors. New revisions of economic indicators are also possible – lower. However, the recovery of the world economy is expected in 2010. The IMF for 2010 forecasts a global growth of 2% and a global trade growth of 0.6%. The global economic crisis in the first quarter of 2009 has largely transferred to Serbia's finances and economy than in the fourth quarter of 2008. Given the rapid deterioration of global economic and financial opportunities, such as the deterioration of current economic developments in Serbia, it was necessary to bring into line previously adopted economic projections and policies and the 2009 Budget Law, with new circumstances and reduced financial and economic opportunities. The 2009 budget rebalance is based on developments achieved in the first quarter of 2009 on unfortunately revised projections for 2009 and consequently revised economic policy. In Serbia's economy, after positive trends in the first nine months of 2008, there was a slowdown in economic activity in the fourth quarter. Gross domestic product in the last quarter of 2008 grew much slower at a rate of 2.8%. A downward trend in industrial production has been registered since August, following stable growth in the previous three years. During the August-December 2008 period, the physical volume of industrial production fell by 3.4%, especially the processing industry. Also, other branches of the economy have seen a slowdown in growth. The global economic crisis has affected changes in the area of external trade. The annual growth rates of imports and exports have begun to decline and are now recording a negative trend. Trends in the economy continue to deteriorate in early 2009. The decline -- industrial production, imports and exports, internal trade, and inflation recorded a high monthly level in January and February. The annual decline in physical production in January-February 2009 was 18.7%, a deeper drop than in December 2008, when it was 8.9%. The most reduced production of the processing industry, in particular those of its export-oriented areas – therefore, the production of iron and steel, rubber and plastics, chemical products. The turnover of goods in trade has been relatively reduced, and the annual rate of import and export growth has essentially turned into an annual decline rate, and they fall by about 28%. Starting from real movements, as well as new projections and indicators of international economic activity, we have also come to the projection of basic economic indicators. According to the latest IMF estimates, a 2 per cent decline in economic activity for Serbia is projected for 2009. It's a much worse picture than what we had when we were doing the 2009 budget, when the same international financial institution predicted a 3.5% growth for our country. According to the 2009 macroeconomic projection, imports by 21.8% and exports of goods are expected to fall by 15%, with a decrease in current balance of payments deficits compared to 5% of GDP. Serbia's 2009 GDP decline is based on the assumption that all sectors of the economy will be hit by the global crisis due to reduced demand in the world and a reduced inflow of foreign capital, as a consequence of the inequitableness of the world economy. Reduced demand abroad and reduced consumption in the country will lead to slowdown or halting the growth of certain segments of the economy. The government and the NBS, in order to mitigate the effects of the global crisis and recession of the global economy, reacted to the first set of measures in October 2008. I'll take this opportunity to remind you. These are measures to boost domestic savings and trade on the stock exchange, such as raising guaranteed levels of savings deposits to 50,000 euros and abolishing interest rate taxes on foreign exchange savings, on capital gains and transfer of absolute rights in securities trading. A mandatory reserve of banks to new loans from abroad has been abolished to increase liquidity, primarily foreign currency liquidity, have been abolished in co-operation with banks of early repayment costs, except in the case of refinanced loans to another bank, with the possibility of extending the repayment period of loans taken up to one year, as well as the conversion of debts to other currencies. In late January 2009, the state reacted to a second set of measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis. These are credits for the liquidity of the economy, investment loans and consumer loans for the purchase of domestic products. A deepening drop in production, a decrease in foreign exchange inflow and changes in the consumption structure conditioned the shift in weights from monetary to fiscal policy. In this regard, in early April 2009, the government adopted a programme of measures that envisions significant fiscal adjustment. The implementation of the programme will have great importance for maintaining Serbia's macroeconomic and financial stability under the conditions of the global crisis. This will significantly contribute to the arrangement with the IMF, which will boost Serbia's foreign reserves and ensure financial stability, with a reduction in financial risk. Also, I would like to remind you that an extremely important agreement with foreign banks on the refinancing of existing loans to the economy and state in 2009, under which new loans will be granted to banks and businesses, which will cover the principal and the interest that they receive in 2009. Starting with Serbia's economy and finances being under the very unfavourable influence of the global financial and economic crisis, which would slow domestic and foreign demand and credit activity, it was necessary to balance the domestic economy at a lower level, with less real GDP decline, moderate inflation growth and a reduction in high external imbalance. It is of particular importance to prevent the deepening of the recession on Serbia's economy that the state is in debt and the activation of new but already approved loans for infrastructure projects. In this respect, fiscal policy needs to be firmly focused on reducing public spending and saving among all budget beneficiaries, as foreseen by the economic stability plan. Monetary policy will remain focused on maintaining a stable rate of inflation, financial stability and maintaining an adequate level of foreign reserves, as a shield against external shocks and potential shocks in the financial sector. At the same time, structural policy needs to be focused on strengthening domestic supply through privatisation, restructuring or liquidation of enterprises in social and state ownership and raising Serbia's capacity to increase production, export and savings, in order to create adequate growth grounds. The law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia had, in agreement with the IMF, a projected macroeconomic scenario. In November 2008, it predicted slower but still positive growth in Serbia's economy. International financial institutions, as well as all major economies, have repeatedly revised their projections since then, always downgraded. And just two days before the IMF gave a lower, or new, but even lower estimates of world growth. In unchanged policies, if we ran fiscal policy in the way we predicted in the 2009 budget, our deficit would be six to seven percent of GDP. The dramatic increase in deficits is due to lower incomes, the functioning of automatic fiscal stabilisers, and the deterioration of the structural deficit due to lower projected growth rates. Under these circumstances, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the IMF as part of a new arrangement, revised macroeconomic projections and found a 2% decline in economic activity basically in new projections. The backbone of the new economic policy is a significant fiscal adjustment. The revised target fiscal deficit in 2009 rose to 3%. The fall in public revenues alone can only be partially compensated by the increase in the target deficit. The basic limit to the further increase in deficits is the availability of funds for its financing. Achieving a greater deficit of 3% of the DP required additional measures. In the short term, we are at our disposal temporary and part discretionary measures to adapt the state sector, above all, to public spending and to a small part on the side of smaller public revenues. At the same time, a space where it is possible and feasible to redesign public consumption by long-term structural measures and lead to a level that corresponds to the country at this level of development. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is an integral part of the wider framework of the consolidated state sector, which includes local levels of government, AP Vojvodina, cities and municipalities, and the organisation of mandatory social security. The fiscal policy target set in 2009 as a 3% deficit implies a country sector deficit at all levels. The result is the collection of deficits of individual levels of government. The projected fiscal policy of the republican budget deficit in this year is at 2.4% of the DP, with local government levels at 0.4% of the DP, the Public Enterprise of Serbia Roads will record a 0.1% deficit, while mandatory social security organisations are at 0.1% deficit. The proposal for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia planned revenues of 649.4 billion dinars, while total expenditure, including net budget loans, amounted to 719 billion dinars. The 2009 budget deficit is 70.5 billion. Budget revenues are planned on the basis of a projection of macroeconomic aggregates and planned changes in tax and excise policies. The effect of the measures taken along with this revenue-side budget is about 30 billion dinars. A much larger adjustment has been achieved on the bulky side, with a total expenditure reduction of 65.4 billion dinars. The biggest savings will be achieved by reducing discretionary expenditures, fixed costs, contract services, materials, maintenance costs, subsidies, unfortunately capital expenditures and budget loans. The amendments to the law on income tax provide for an increase in the tax base for all forms of income, except for earnings, such as capital revenues, dividends and profit shares, income from copyright fees and copyright related rights. The effect of these changes is five billion dinars. The total effect of increasing excise duties on oil derivatives is four billion dinars. In assessing the effects of increasing the amount of excise duties, it was taken into account that this year there will be a safe decline in the consumption of derivatives. The introduction of an excise on mobile phones, which would tax traffic at a rate of 10%, expects an additional inflow of three billion dinars. The government's decision totals the profits of all public enterprises belong to the republican budget, and five billion dinars are expected on this basis. A different distribution of budget beneficiaries' own revenues has also been foreseen, so they will retain 60% of the revenues achieved, while the republics will belong to the remaining 40%, representing 12 billion. Based on the increase in the tax on the use of motor vehicles, an additional revenue of one billion is expected. Most of the savings are achieved in the position of so-called. discretionary expenses. The discretionary expenditure shall be considered as material costs of the state apparatus, the purchase of goods and services which can be reduced without jeopardising the functioning of the state services. Limiting representation services, reducing the use of mobile phone services, limiting official travel only to the necessary when it comes to negotiations with international organisations and the like. Part of the state's discretionary expenditure under subsidies is also reduced to the least possible. As part of capital expenditure, regular purchases of equipment, smaller NIP projects, have been reduced in order to create space for investment projects of national importance. Total savings in all categories of expenditure are 26% and 40 billion, respectively. The salaries of state administration employees and public services, financed from the budget, will remain at the level of the previous year in the coming year. In addition to freezing, the reduction rates for over 40,000 dinars in the state administration are applied, and 15% for over 100,000 dinars, respectively. There is no possibility of new employment, except under exceptional circumstances and under special government approval. The total reduction in subsidies is 6.9 billion dinars. The largest reduction is in the context of the subsidisation of agriculture, with a reduction in subsidisation relating to budgetary resources. The Agricultural Development Fund will focus part of its resources on subsidies under difficult conditions, in order to avoid a significant reduction in agricultural production. Under transfers to other levels of government, transfers by municipalities by 15 billion dinars were reduced compared to the Budget Law. The transfer of AP Vojvodina is intended for the payment of salaries of educational and cultural employees on the territory of Vojvodina and amounts to 24.7 billion. Of the other transfers totalling 6.7 billion dinars, 3.4 billion refer to the transfer of municipalities to the KIM territory, 2.1 transfers of salaries to employees in compulsory preschool education, 0.3 are intended for the Kolubar County, 0.2 transfers to municipalities in southern Serbia, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. As a result of the slowdown in economic activity, the increase in unemployment and slower growth in earnings, the incomes of compulsory social insurance organisations are significantly lower than planned. Where expenditure could not be reduced, which is the PIO and the National Employment Service, reduced revenue from the contribution will be compensated by increased budget transfers. An increase in the transfer to the PIO Fund is 23.9 billion dinars, while an increase of five billion dinar transfers is planned for the NSZ. The RZO transfer has been reduced by three billion. Social protection funds from the budget are planned to preserve the attainment of the level of rights to the social protection of users of this form of assistance, as well as certain levels needed to preserve student and student standards. Also planned are certain incentive funds in the areas of financing young talent and successful athletes. In the context of the Transition Fund, resources shall be provided to take measures and actions that precede the termination of the job, the working relationship of workers and the resolution of the working status of extra employees. The funds are provided for the establishment of transition funds, the use of available corporate resources, the establishment of different forms of entrepreneurship, the development of incubator centres, industrial zones, training organisation, professional training, retraining, promotion of employment and self-employment. The funds intended to protect children include income compensation during maternity leave, parental allowance and child allowance. The maternity care is planned for 27,000 maternity care, and the amount of compensation is determined by the amount of profits they make. The parental supplement is made by the mother for the first, second, third and fourth children. This right is estimated to be used by 6,000 users per month. The right to a child's allowance is realized for the first, second, third and fourth children, depending on the material position of the family. This right is estimated to be used by about 250,000 users for about 480,000 children. The planned budget policy in 2009 was designed to preserve the financial and economic stability of the state and meet basic legal obligations towards citizens, businesses and international organisations. Also, the budgetary framework is designed to reduce the participation of public consumption in the social product, to reduce the country's liquidity impact on aggregate demand and partially improve the structure of public consumption. The budget rebalancing, in changing and difficult market conditions, is used as one of the instruments for implementing measures against recession, which are, above all, reducing the costs of state administration, protecting citizens' standards, promoting economic activity and employment, supporting public works and capital infrastructure projects. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I expect you to have a constructive discussion and good ideas. It's natural to have different opinions, but I hope there's an important common interest, with as little effect as possible, to get out of this crisis. In our long history, we have shown that this is possible and that is why I call on Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the 2009 budget, i.e. the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18216	I thank Mrs. Minister, Dr. Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Justice Committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the MP Slobodan Maras, who gave an opinion at the session of the Committee on Finance, want a word when considering the bill? Yes, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18217	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, has been acting inconclusively for the past 20 and a few minutes. Of course, I don't want to offend you, Madam Minister, I really have the respect for the effort and I have the faith that you're doing everything for your best. But we're not here to see the Prime Minister, we're not in a position to see the Minister of Economy, which I think would be necessary to sit here. What's the biggest problem? We haven't seen politics, although this budget rebalance has to be politically explained, and I'll tell you why. Citizens here expect optimism. What we just heard, I don't believe in any citizen of this country, and not one MP here has been optimistic. What's been going on lately? You changed your proposals a week on how Serbia could survive this economic crisis that you ignored for months, especially before the end of last year. We heard you accuse the IMF, not specifically you, but representatives of the government, or government spokesman, of the IMF making mistakes while you were having talks with them. What's most problematic to me here? The only one you don't touch is you, the government. Everything can change, but the number of the ministry can't be reduced. We'd like you to take a closer look at it, hand over the law in the procedure, draft a law on the ministries, where we suggest that the number of ministries adapt to the situation in which we are. It's not the same as May 11th. Reduce the number of ministries, give the right signal to the citizens that you first move away from yourself. We heard one minister say he would cut down by a fifth of his ministry, says 7,000 people would be out of work. The man has 35,000 people in his ministry, or agencies. His ministry, for example, has been reduced by 20% by this rebalance, the Republic Assembly's budget by 30%, and the BIA by 10%. What's that BIA doing? Why didn't she arrest Mladic and Hadzic and release Serbia's burden? You can't touch her budget. The big problem is there's no willingness with you government to talk to the opposition to share responsibility. How many times has the LDP been ready to talk to you? We've been offering weeds, we've been offering economic development programmes for this country, where we see problems in this budget. If we talked about the rebalancing in 2008 and the 2009 budget that was wasteful, that they weren't developmental, now we have to say that this is a recession budget. You'll kill the middle class this way. You've transferred all the burden to the mad class of this society. You're pushing, you're destimulating small and medium-sized businessmen. You just drive them into the gray zone like this. We're afraid you'll push the country into a severe recession. You, for example, have now raised your excise duties on fuel. Why didn't you raise your taxes on cigarettes? Serbia is the country where cigarettes are the cheapest. Should we be afraid of Philip Morris or any cigarette manufacturer? Raise your excise duties on cigarettes, don't justify a large number of citizens smoking. They'll smoke less, it'll be healthier company. Raise your excises. What about the Constitution, Article 184, if I remember correctly, which says at least 7% of the Vojvodina budget? I listened carefully to what you said yesterday, after which I confirmed in the press in print, how you expressed yourself when it came to the budget of the province of Vojvodina. You can still live in a fairy tale, but the Constitution must be respected. We have fought against this constitution, but in the end we must defend it from you who voted it, 7% of it is an obligation under the Constitution, that it represents the budget of the province of Vojvodina in relation to the republican budget. You say, "The transfer of jurisdiction is under way." No, Madam Minister, no transfer of jurisdiction, no law on transfer of jurisdiction, no statutes, no return of property. (President: five minutes. Only if you'll excuse me, another 30 seconds. Why are we losing public enterprises? What about the NIS final account? Why didn't the NIS get into the republican budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18218	Do the MPs Mladen Grujic and Radojko Obradovic, who voted at the session of the Finance Committee to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, want a word? Yeah. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18219	My fellow MPs, Madam Minister, Mr. Obradovic, we have heard your presentation and it would probably be much more pleasant if we were as forgetful as you are. If we'd forgotten what you told us in October, if we'd forgotten what you told us in December, if we'd forgotten what we were saying at that time, things would probably look different today. After all, the global economic crisis in Serbia did not occur until the IMF mission arrived. It was only when they arrived that we admitted that there was a crisis. Only when they told us that the total deficit was 190 billion, did we admit that it was. I'll talk about the first page, just like last time. You predict that GDP will be around 3,000 billion. You predict a 2% GDP decline, a 14.8% drop in exports and a 21.8% drop in imports. When you look at statistics only for the first three months, you see that the decline in income is more than 12%, that industrial production is down 20%, when you look at budget revenues, the official document says 88.1%. Industrial production in February is 20% lower than in February last year. When you look at the structure of imports, it is clear that industrial production will not be able to record growth, exports are lower by 27% and imports by 28%. How are you going to achieve these assumptions of that memo you haven't changed, that's absolutely not clear. It is absolutely not a question of whether there will be another rebalancing, but only when we will discuss the same document again in the Assembly. You've projected a budget of 698 billion, now you're telling us that if everything else was like today, the revenues would be 619 billion. You fill this difference to 650 with 30 billion additional revenues. That would be fine if linear algebra were valid in the economy. When you charge taxes, new taxes, absolutely taking into account all other parameters, incomes will not be as you predict. How are we going to help the economy, how are we going to try to reduce and reduce GDP? You said it would be invested in infrastructure, that it would be a significant income given to agriculture. When you look at it, the total change in budget is 748ths of 719 billion, so 5% is less budget than it was a few months ago. When you look at how reduced the budgets of the ministries that are currently caring for infrastructure and economy, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is 22% lower budget, the Ministry of Infrastructure 21% lower budget, the Ministry of Agriculture 24% lower budget and the Ministry of NIP 26%. The basic question is, what is our deficit? The budget deficit is 70 billion, but the consolidated deficit you were just talking about is 90 billion. I guess that's the Serbian state, too. How will that hole in the budget be filled? You tell us-- privatization revenues, loans, donations, through the broadcasting of state records. What can we sell in this situation if, at the same time, the government makes a decision where it converts claims into state property? What remained unsold except Telecom? What loans are you counting on, what donations are these? As for the broadcast of state records, I wouldn't remind myself of how great the sale of these papers is and at what rates of interest. In the budget, if you've noticed, fellow MPs, there's no arrangement with the IMF anywhere. These three billion are nowhere to be found. Why? Is it public debt at all or isn't it? It's not because it's going to be on the NBS item. Is NBS part of Serbia? Well, when the governor's salary is cut and he affects it is, and when he's supposed to show up as a public debt, he obviously isn't. What is quite clear is that the budget is not feasible and that it is not on realistic grounds. That's why the DSS won't vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18220	Do the MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Zarko Korac, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, and when considering the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18221	Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Health and Family Committee, I have issued an opinion on the adoption of the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the budget of the Ministry of Health. In this time, I'll explain why I did it. So, for us, the draft financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute is totally unacceptable. We think this financial plan is completely non-transparent. It is non-transparent in this form because, in a memorandum on fiscal and economic policy from 2009 to 2011, there is a deficit in the financing of Serbian health. It was also written in daily newspapers, I will mention only one article in the February 4th daily "Politics" newspaper: "However, if each item of its own income is collected from state hospitals and health homes, through the charging of extra-standard services, then there is a surplus in 2008 of nearly 400m euros." When you look at the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, it doesn't stand anywhere and it doesn't say. So this is a question for the finance minister: Why does the adoption of the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute not show up in the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute in 2008, near 400m euros? So that's one serious problem, and that's why we think that financial plan is completely non-transparent, because we don't know what's going on with that money, how it's used. As far as the budget of the Ministry of Health is concerned, he is also unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable in this regard because Serbia is faced with a very serious problem, lack or entirely small share of Serbian pharmaceuticals in products such as serums, vaccines and other products produced by the Torak Virology Institute. When you look at a split in the Ministry of Health in which it is financed, you can see it's a miserable sum. We are witnessing that cases have appeared in Serbia in recent months, the daily press reports, that incorrect vaccines that have passed the deadline of importance, that parents who are forced to vaccinate their children buy foreign products, do not adequately store them, and when these vaccines appear to be applied, then it turns out that these vaccines are completely incorrect. Is it possible that the state has no interest in this kind of action of its pharmaceuticals? As it has the interest not to reduce the number of ministries, to have hundreds of state secretaries, to spend on travel, to contracts on work, to diversified the budget from citizens' taxes, and that there is not enough money for this kind of thing. One more thing that applies to the Ministry of Health, not only to the Ministry of Health but also to the Republic Health Insurance. The item for the supply of medicines is reduced. Let's remind ourselves of a story that I was talking about in December, remember, when I mentioned that the Republic Institute was getting drugs on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. On the basis of this average price of drugs being formed from the average price of three countries, so Italy, Croatia and Slovenia. Let's see what the rate of contributions per capita in these countries is. This exceeds 1,500 euros per capita. What is the rate of contribution that is set out per capita for our health care? Not a full 230 euros. Is it possible for us to treat that average price with those countries where that rate of contribution is far higher and to pay that average price of drugs? I think it's unacceptable for us. If that changed, there would certainly be room for that kind of savings. These are some essential reasons, but in detail and the amendments I have submitted, I will explain these things further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18222	Do the MPs of Zoran Shami, Riza Halimi and Zarko Korac, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Education, and when considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, want a word? Yeah. ) Asking MP Zoran Shami to register with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18223	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, on the Committee on Education, I have issued an opinion on a part of the education budget. The fact is that the education budget dropped its stake from 3.8% last year to 3.59 in this one. Don't slow down the need to save, somehow always in education or eventually learn real savings. Of course, since savings can't be on salaries and the most necessary costs for schools, then saving is always on that creative part of the money spent in education, and it's already fallen to below 1%. One time I said, and it's more and more like it's going to be like that, when 100% of the education budget is paid, then the Ministry of Education needs to be abolished, because it's enough for two officials to type in payments. But I regret to say that the budget in the education department is fine compared to the budget in general. When discussing the budget or budget rebalancing, then usually those sitting in the opposition have some political reasons that are against the draft budget. But believe me, this time I'm offered budget rebalancing, to say the least, offends intelligence. In fact, so many wrong logical assumptions were made, that I'm afraid, unlike my colleague Obradovic, I don't think we're going to be making rebalancing, I'm afraid in the fall we're going to declare general bankruptcy. I could for hours individually list the wrong ways of thinking, the wrong actions, the saving where you don't need to save, and the waste where you don't need to waste it, but I'll try to give you just one example in this little time. Five billion dinars were allocated in the 2009 budget for the construction of Corridor 10. Now it's a separate zero dinar. Watch out, in times of past economic crisis, so even the sparrows on the roof know, usually the states reach out for public works. As long as there are thousands of kilometers of highways in Serbia, and there are no roads and railways that we don't need, we should invest in them. I'll explain the logic. Every dinar invested in this business, every dinar of the state returns at least 80%, because in the beginning, money is spent in the state, the one who earns a salary to the state of taxes, the rest of the money will not carry them to the Cayman Islands, but will spend it here. The state will take tax on VAT and other excise duties. When you add it all up and take it away, you almost didn't give any money, and you've got a profit and you've got a big one. That's one example of your most direct, where it was worth doing something. Instead, you're re-applying logic, I'm going to raise some 10% tax to 20%, and then I'm going to automatically double the income, possibly do a little math, etc. I don't know how the government got an estimate of how much it's going to make to increase gas excises. Of course it's going to go down. If you'll excuse me, I spend three thousand dinars every month for gas and I'll spend so much more. You'll say we'll introduce less oil. That's right. On the other hand... (President: five minutes. ) I end up, the price of gasoline is also reflected at the price of potatoes and onion at the market. I know I'm running out of time, but with great regret, I have to point out that I'm afraid that Serbia under such a government is running out of time very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18224	Does MP Riza Halimi want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18225	Madam Chairman, I have singled out my opinion on the Education Committee for the same reasons as when the 2009 budget was adopted. Namely, and then I checked with the Ministry of Education's representatives that in the positions of the Ministry of Education neither in the 2009 budget, nor in this proposal for amendments and additions, they do not figure positions around the department of the University of Niška, which have been announced by the government that they will be opened in this academic year in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. It means that we have this very difficult, sensitive problem, from political motives not to recognise a diploma of Pristina University, a very drastically difficult procedure in the nostrification of the university's diploma in Tirana and Tetovo. As we have already started to talk more seriously about the possibility of opening certain sections of the Niška University in this area and in Albanian, as you can see, there is currently nothing concrete about it. I am afraid that in the context of this drastic crisis, it will normally be rationalised or mostly reduced by funds precisely in this most sensitive problem, so it will, in fact, only remain in rhetoric, and in practice from this announcement and from the minister of education and other representatives of the government, there will be nothing. That's why I stand out my opinion the same way I did in December when we were preparing the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18226	With the question of whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform the MPs that the statements for the word, as presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, have already been given by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Branko Ružic, Jorgovanka Tabakovic and MP Nenad Popovic, then MP Balint Pastor and MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18227	Mrs Dragutinović, Mr Obradovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the way the debate today may be opened may best speak about the essence of the problem in which our country is located, a problem that only exposes itself in the motives that lead us to the debate on budget rebalancing. Mrs Dragutinović, it is very difficult to criticize you, and not offer an alternative. There's usually an alternative, but with a lot of factors we're on a dead end today. So it's really completely pointless to talk about the money that we need when we all know that money doesn't have or criticize this budget rebalance when we all know how we got to the rebalance. I can't ask you where the government is, and I think we need it today, not to fight, but to try to bring back the security of the circle that we belong to as power and opposition, the circle of people who decide on the future of this country. We don't need optimism because there's no reason for such a thing, but we need to restore security and order to society. That is why it will remain without the right answer here in the air between us a question that is only important: do you have 126 MPs for this budget rebalancing, Mrs Dragutinovic. Because if you do not have 126 MPs, because you are unable to respond to ambitions, appetites, the sincere needs of your ruling coalition's parties, then as LDP, we are thinking about the IMF, not your budget rebalancing, because at this point in time for our country, the most important arrangement with the IMF. If there isn't an arrangement, then we won't be able to hold onto the ruins of that world that's been slaughtered for 20 years and crashes. You've said a lot and more or less it's all true. You went to parliament in your term with two rebalances and one budget. I'm not going to point at your sentences now that you said to us, that in August and September there were already clearly visible trends in the coming crisis. I wrote it down. Industrial production is dropping, and so on, that we're not talking about it right now. But I have to remind you that the budget rebalance, the first one we discussed six months ago, was the gasoline we put out the fire. Someone's responsible for that. This is the responsibility of your ruling coalition, which was created on the basis that satisfied the form, but not the essence. The price of 128 MPs who supported the formation of the government in the meantime has become too high. Without this budget rebalance and that famous pension increase by 10%, our economic situation today would be at least something more favourable, and we could all together answer with more reason the question of pensioners who are now asking us – and where is that in real life? At that point, the euro was worth between 77 and 80 dinars, and today it moves around 94-95, so by paying the price of political agreements, we denied the values on which they were created. The measures with which you came before us in October were part of the answer to what we were looking for, let's say, deposit insurance, but these measures, Mrs Dragutinovic, came into force in January, when we finally found space to talk about it in the Assembly and we vote on it. Why am I saying all this? Because it is now very important to convince the citizens of this country that parliament and government are able to protect those fundamental interests that are much wider than the political concept that you or LDP belong to, or anyone else here in the Assembly. We all know there's no money, but I'm also sure that you know very well the cause of our crisis and the big difference, every day more and more, between what triggers our crisis and what is the generator of the crisis in the world. We wanted the IMF in 2007 and it was the basis of our economic programme, an arrangement with the IMF that would introduce the necessary order into our public finances, since the government is not prepared for such a thing. We wanted it in 2008, we supported your agreement with the IMF when it was made, but we would like to get an answer from the prime minister, who is not there, is there a political infrastructure that will implement this agreement? We can take down your ruling coalition's budget and go to the polls, but after that election, we'll have this kind of conversation again, because we'll have an even bigger hole in the register to share the money we don't have. That's why we don't have a lot of understanding for that cheap percentage score. There is no room for savings in Serbia with each ministry's budgets or unfulfilled commitments, and that is a great truth, because we are a poor society. In 2009, we can fantasize about the 89 format, savings can be talked about in the EU, but not in Serbia. We can talk about big denial here, and that's what we have to say, and we need politics to deny it. There's no politics. We can't have this debate with you. We have repeatedly demonstrated our willingness to help this country, not the authorities or other opposition parties, but this country, but you, as the Government, have made something so impossible for us. You've been run over and now we're all trying to reduce the damage we're facing together. We'll get out of the crisis the moment we get faster than the events and the moment, instead of the consequences, we start dealing with the causes of our problems. And the causes are not at the National Bank's reference interest rate, the causes are not too much for pensioners, but are the causes of the wrong policy that has mercilessly destroyed this country for 20 years. That's what some other generations are responsible for, and now it's us who need to create some new meaning on those ruins. That is why policy is needed, completely different regional relations, immediate reconciliation with the countries with which we are in misunderstanding, with Macedonia, Montenegro, better relations with Croatia and Bosnia as well. These are the markets where we have surpluses. It requires genuine commitment in the process of European integration, the adoption of the laws that we need. There's not much to take in the budget, so put it somewhere else, but the state needs to pull out of that space where, not only does it not use the chances it's given, it creates damage. We need a completely different law on planning and construction if we want foreign investments. They will no longer come as they have come in the last few years, for they are much harder to obtain. We're not competitive. We also need a new anti-monopoly law. We unilaterally apply the Interim Trade Agreement with the EU, and we are the only country to decide on such a thing. It's an interstep, not a permanent state. The interstep will soon become counterproductive. He's already suffocating our farm. The 20 posts of the American "ji di pi" stem from agriculture, which is why agriculture is also important for Serbia, the developed agri-industry sector. There's nothing out of it, because there's no law and no political idea. It's hard to run social policy in Serbia, but you made a mistake when you found that pensioners were the most vulnerable in the crisis. No, this crisis affects the most generations that seek the first job and the parents of those generations who are at the end of their working lives, and their jobs are at risk because of it, so they have no jobs left behind, and they do not have the right to retire. These are the most endangered categories in our society today. It would be good if we were to analyze the problems of our economy's growth, completely chaotic foreign trade, if by analysing prices in Serbia we could hear from you how do you think you can solve these anomalies? We're not just in trouble because our foreign markets have closed down, we're much more in trouble because of the fact that we've mostly offered these markets a cabbage stone, because our industry has been destroyed and we can't be competitive either by quantity or quality for a long time. And what little bit of value we create, we quickly disfigure. If we're talking about prices, the answer to the price is different from the one you can guess after your opening statement. Prices in Serbia remain very high. If the economy minister were here, I'd tell him he's wrong, because his view is that prices, though high, are obviously acceptable, because people buy goods. People are forced to buy it and buy less than they would buy at a higher price than they would pay, because the state condemned them to it. Competition, that's what we need. So we come to the essence of reforms that must be implemented in this country in order to change economic opportunities, build an effective state and define a new economic policy. An effective state is not the state where we are part of a ruling coalition or anyone else, instead of the part that is incapacitated today, but is an effective state that functionally fulfils its obligations, which knows where it belongs, which defines within itself and its rights and obligations in such a way as to achieve them in the right address. Decentralization, Mrs. Dragutinovic. That's also what we need. Local self-government budgets have been denied. Why wasn't the property returned, the property that Milosevic took from us in 1996? We can't understand that. If there's any objective reason, help us understand it, so let's see how we get out of the paradox as soon as possible, in which objectively something that is essentially unsustainable is acceptable. We must return the property to those whose property has been taken away, so that we tell those local self-governments in municipalities in Serbia to do what you do, if you do well, if you do bad things, then share the fate of those who are incompetent. That's why this is a much higher story of politics, at least of one rebalancing budget. What did we think you had to do? You had to consult not only with us but with all those who need to live this budget that you propose, with those who need to fill it, with those who spend it. That's not what happened. Our Chamber of Commerce is downgraded. Every successful man in Serbia is a bit of a thief because it's a rule of success in this country, it can't be otherwise. Every game in this Serbia is a bit of a thief because we created such an ambience ourselves. This Parliament has not been hearing from us for two years about our idea of redefining the relations between politics and the business world. Every politician who meets a businessman is only in Serbia a thief and a corrupt and every businessman who meets a politician is only in Serbia a thief and corrupt and nowhere else in the normal world. The whole planet is a hive of encounters that cross the interests of politics and economics, and we have bewitched into this building, others are enthralled in their soloists, hiding the collapse of their banks or financial empires, and all together we manage each other unconsciously that everyone here has a place and a role to play. Let the government tell us where this place is for the government, where it is for parliament, where it is for the business world, where it is for unions. Do not be fooled by the atmosphere that by introducing VAT into the congregation messaging, you will solve the problems of this country. There is practically no institution in the country, parliament is without any support, the parties are long ago, they are not the authorities we need, our church has taken care of enough for itself, the business world as well. Where are the leaders of this society who will run the country and allow it to endure this very difficult road ahead of us if we find support for an agreement with the IMF? He's right, a colleague from the DSS, someone needs that money back. There are here amongst us who are in power and in opposition, we meet each other with our children. I wouldn't want us to leave them all so chaoticly. Show us where the space is to make some kind of deal. Open the door to participate. There's no room in the economy. An honest commitment to Europe, solving problems created without some rational explanation and reason that we created ourselves, telling the truth to society, we don't need forecasts of the IMF, we need the truth that will change this country and order. If you have a majority, let the majority go to parliament and ask for support for themselves, and if you don't have most of it for this budget, then say it right at the beginning, let's see what we're going to do. Do not forget that in either case, the problems we face, the circumstances that have brought us into this budget rebalance, can only be solved if each of the MPs in this room, each of the people in this country, knows what is expected of him and is able to meet those expectations, because I am sure that no one enjoys the situation we are in today. We're going to have a lot of criticism today in the discussion of individual solutions, suggest some adjustments, but that doesn't change the essence of everything I've been trying to tell you. I hope you understand me as a representative of the government, I don't mean as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18228	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Branko Ruzic, the president of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I would like to make an apology to the MPs Jorgovanka Tabaković and Tomislav Nikolic in my previous address before I gave the word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and I would like to make an apology to the MPs Jorgovanka Tabaković and to Tomislav Nikolic, because I have accidentally read the names of the MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, who remained recorded in the electronic system, because of her request for a replica, which was not granted. So, the apology and the MPs, Jorgvanka Tabakovic, because it was read by mistake as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia and the president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia to MP Tomislav Nikolic, who will be given a word during the session for the presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups when he wishes. I now give my word to MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18229	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us with a draft law amending and supplementing the 2009 Budget Law, with a set of accompanying tax and other laws, which surrounds the government's policy and measures in the area of the public balance of the Republic. This proposal is practically a reflection of the current economic situation in which the state is located, but also of the more objective negative circumstances caused by the global economic crisis. The rebalancing and measures proposed by the government show the mobility and desire of the government of the Republic of Serbia to meet major challenges in an adequate way, in order to manage a crisis that is apparently present. So, faced with real problems in the functioning of our economy, which are primarily reflected in the filling of the budgets of the Republic, the province, municipalities and cities, it is logical that, first of all, the rebalance of the budget must be responded to in order to adapt the volume of public spending to the emerging situation, which, of course, is further complicated by the present global economic crisis. As with any rebalance that changes the schedule of fixed funds, especially if previously balanced funds are reduced, this rebalance may be objected for many reasons. But if we are politically responsible people, we need to be aware of a situation where due to the exceptional recession in the economy, above all, the achievement of budget revenues is well below the planned amounts for this year. Under its responsibilities, the government has proposed a total reduction in public spending under the expenditure of the Republic's budget and the budget of local self-government. Given this, it is important to point out several important facts affecting these measures in the government. The deterioration of the situation in the economy, particularly in the first quarter of this year, especially because of the decline in demand or consumption and the reduction in foreign capital inflows necessarily conditioned that the Government reacted urgently and reduced public spending, in order to ensure the management of the public finances of the Republic provided the basic conditions for the functioning of state and other bodies which are budgetary users. The budget rebalance is the government's starting point for adapting the total volume of public spending to the current situation in the economy of the Republic and the economic situation of the population, which are also the country's taxpayers. The issue of budget savings or budget expenditure cuts is not easy at all, given that it is inevitably causing certain consequences, either by budget users or indirectly by economy, which expects certain jobs related to the services it provides to the State and thus generates income from which it pays the costs and taxes to the State. In this regard, I am convinced that the government has well assessed all aspects of the reduction of the planned funds, in order to avoid the effects of these measures. Following the government's programme of measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Serbia, budget rebalancing is only the expected move in the government's economic policy in a segment related to public finances. The government's intention to make this rebalancing a key element of the fight against recession, and above all by reducing the costs of the state administration, on the other hand, to encourage economic activity to ensure conditions for maintaining macroeconomic stability in Serbia. In view of the current need in this situation, it is necessary to recognise the chance for the Government to continue and step up activities in terms of further reducing and rationalising total consumption, in order to ensure the maximum principle of efficiency and economicity of public funding after the adoption of this rebalance in the management of public finances in the State administration system. Consequently, it is necessary to improve financial discipline and reduce the size of the state apparatus’s control functions in particular in public revenue collection, increased and more effective control over taxpayers and reduced the size of the grey economy and tax avoidance, resulting in a significant increase in budget revenues. Of course, in order for this to be realistic, the Government must take in this area the measures that will be in the function of reviving and maintaining the continuity of economic activity, because this is the only way to ensure continuity in the inflows of budget income and the gradual overcoming of the crisis. An extremely important topic for the state and for our citizens is the functioning of public finances in changed conditions, on a local level, where resources are now available in a much smaller scale and where the reduction of the plan is much more pronounced in terms of the consequences of achieving the constitutional and legal functions of local authorities. For this reason, it is the government's obligation to constantly monitor the functioning of public finances at the site and to intervene in accordance with the existing criteria for additional funds, i.e. the transfer from the Republic's budget. The government in this segment must not have a selective approach. It must take into account the discrepancy of certain regions. There must be no mother in Serbia, and some a stepmother. There is one measure and possibility that the Government in this situation should promote and support in a professional and normative sense, which is the issue of municipal, etc. Municipal bonds. This is a way to activate the available funds of interested domestic and foreign investors and to be in direct communication, without intermediaries, means banks, i.e. to finance certain projects at the municipal level, for example - the construction of water, heat, kindergartens and other infrastructures. In this way, under more favourable conditions, initial funding would be provided for the launch of important projects in municipalities that now have even less opportunity to finance them from their own resources. A guarantee of such a measure, according to potential investors, would have to be the Republic of Serbia under existing legislation. The government's programme of measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis, this proposal for rebalancing and a set of accompanying laws, speaks of this, for example, if the government had not reached out to privatise some public enterprises, at a time when the price of these public enterprises would not be even close to the market of their real value, as well as to fill the budget with non-resonal privatisations would practically only mean spending the substance of our country. In this regard, the SPS and the Unique Serbia consider this election to be politically and economically responsible. Also, one way to fight recession in the economy and unemployment is to realise a strategic project, which, unfortunately, was silenced in Serbia from 2000 to last year, as an ideological connotation was given the project. It is of course about Corridor 10, followed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic, and the project holder is the Ministry of Infrastructure, led by engineer Milutin Mrkonjic. It is the government's obligation to bring the degree and possibilities of funding of this project into line with the needs of the state and its citizens, regardless of the limited financial resources. In Serbia, construction was also under much more difficult circumstances, and it was successful when there was a systematic approach, a good personnel base and a quality operation. That's what Serbia has today. It is important that we all make an effort, regardless of the limited resources, to make this project realize in this year and next year bring about a maximum. While some will try to make this topic, rebalancing and following a set of laws, politicise, the government is recognizable in the context of available opportunities, with this proposal for rebalancing and an earlier proposal, the measure has shown that by reducing public expenditure and managing public finances it preserves macroeconomic stability and creates conditions to bring public spending closer to the public opportunities of the economy and the population. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for a budget rebalance proposal and a set of accompanying laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18230	The word was requested by MP Momo Colakovic, president of the PUPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18231	Dear Vice-Presidents, the presidency, respected ministers, respected government representatives, respected MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group supported the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget when it was adopted on 13 December 2008. Also, our parliamentary group supported the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, which this parliament adopted in early January of this year. The arguments for which we have been defined to support the budget and the law mentioned in our assessment have completely come true over this four-month period. At that time, we have indicated that the economic and financial crisis in the world will affect the state of our country, with marked trends in the decline of gross social product, that there will be a drop in production, a reduction in the number of employees, a reduction in the purchasing power of the population, and that this will affect the poorest citizens of Serbia, and among them a huge number of pensioners. In particular, we have pledged to pay particular attention to the socially endangered groups of the Serbian population, which the government has also accepted with over three billion dinars to help those families and citizens most affected in this economic and financial crisis. We have also insisted on achieving the principles of social justice and solidarity as one of the main priorities in forming and electing this government. We have pledged that priority must be given to preserve jobs, as well as social dialogue with workers, i.e. their representatives, trade unions. We have shown in particular the need to preserve the level of pensions achieved and their regular payment. We are witnessing that this goal is being achieved – pensions are being paid regularly, and the average pension relative to the average wage is currently 64%. I will remind you that we have pointed out that the solutions to the Budget Law and the Law on PIO are certain safeguards and guarantees that pensions will not be reduced. However, we still have close to 500,000 pensioners in the poverty zone. We expect that their problems will be solved from the defined budgets for the socially most vulnerable citizens. At the time of the budget review, we proposed, and the government accepted that every three months, it practically means now, analysing the situation and taking additional measures and activities. We view this proposal as an additional measure to mitigate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, and our PUPS parliamentary group supports it. The PUPS parliamentary group, with regard to a concrete draft budget rebalancing law for 2009, considers it balanced against the needs of further development and further investment and assistance in the preservation of natural resources, on the one hand, and the preservation of the achieved degree of social security of citizens and their standards, on the other. In this regard, we welcome the government's decision to give up the initial plan of taxation of salaries and pensions, and the solution requires a reduction of state costs. Our MP group welcomes and supports it. Our estimate is there's still room to cut the total costs. In the vast state institutions in the case of material expenditures and hidden channels for the use of taxpayers' funds, I also understood it in the opening presentation of the distinguished minister. We insist on greater discipline and responsibilities of taxpayers, especially when it comes to commitments to the PIO Fund and the Health Fund. We point to the possibility of huge savings through consistent application and respect for the Public Procurement Act. According to our assessment in this sector, there are large reserves to reduce costs and savings. They could be measured by dozens of billions of dinars. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. When it comes to the proposal for a rebalancing of the PIO financial plan, we believe it is well balanced, to ensure the implementation of the basic principles of acquired PIO rights, the protection of the right to the recovery of pensioners and the principles already established by law of rights and obligations. The PUPS parliamentary group believes the PIO Fund's financial plan has provided funds for the regular payment of pensions at the level of pensions paid for January 2009. In view of our commitment and attitudes expressed in continuity since the constitution of this Parliament, and in particular in the discussions on budget rebalancing for 2008, then the 2009 budget and this budget rebalance, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that support should be given to the 2009 budget rebalancing law, as well as to the proposal for a rebalancing of the PIO Fund, and in this sense in the voting day, our parliamentary group will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18232	The word is made by MP Pastor Balint, representative of the Manjin Group of MPs. All I'm asking is that you register in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18233	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM is aware of the economic crisis Serbia is in, not only Serbia but the whole region, the whole of Europe, we can say the whole world. That's why we haven't submitted any amendments. Not because we consider everything ideal in the proposed budget rebalancing, but because we are aware that the money is unfortunately gone. We are also aware that the government had no other choice. We see that all parliamentary parties are in some way and to some extent unsatisfactory, we see that all members of the government think without exception unsatisfactory and this shows that this rebalancing is not ideal, but that there is no other way out. We were always a party that embraced reality, which lived in reality, and for that reason we didn't submit any amendments. Of course I could indicate which positions, which numbers we are not satisfied with from the proposed budget rebalance. It's mostly agriculture. We all know that agricultural subsidies will be reduced from 18.2 billion dinars to 13.7 billion dinars. It's very bad when we know tobacco growers still haven't received subsidies in the past year, especially those tobacco growers that grow the berlay variety and the Oriental. We also know that local self-government will be taken from the dedicated transfer of 15 billion dinars, and we cannot possibly consider it a good solution, but the government, I'm sure, has estimated that there is no other solution and that this is why it was done. We are not satisfied with the positions of national minority councils, which will be reduced from 200 million to 141.6 million dinars, but I must also say that we were satisfied in previous years when the amount that the national councils of national minorities received has always been increased year by year. We are not satisfied with the resources of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. This ministry is very important and important, first of all, because no law on national councils has been passed and that there is no ministry we would not know again which body, which is the ministry responsible for drawing up draft laws on how to choose, finance and the competences of national councils of national minorities. We are not satisfied with the positions of the Office for European Integration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia either. I think that at this moment, when this government is formed on the basis of a common desire to join the EU, the funds of the European Integration Office cannot be reduced from 120 to 95.6 million dinars. We are not satisfied either with the positions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because regardless of the heifer that has been led against this esteemed home in recent weeks and months, regardless of the heifer that has been led against certain MPs, the National Assembly should still have more resources, because not everything is not in the daily papers, it is not all about travel expenses, it is not all about the salaries of the Members and we are not satisfied about that. We are not satisfied because Parliament's resources will be reduced to only 749 million dinars, and I remind you in previous years it was two billion, in the previous 2.2 billion dinars, and three years ago 3.6 billion dinars. Therefore, for example, a very useful action to translate the law into the languages of national minorities, between these languages and the Hungarian language, will stand. The actions were very successful and useful in 2008, and unfortunately this year, parliament will not have the means to do so. It's not all about the diaries, it's not all about parliamentary salaries, and parliament should have much more resources. We are not satisfied with these figures, but we accept reality and that this is the only problem we would be prepared, no matter what, to vote for this proposed rebalancing for 2009. But there's a little bigger problem. The little bigger problem is called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am very sorry that Mrs Dragutinovic mentioned Vojvodina only on two occasions today when she spoke, i.e. when she presented this proposal for budget rebalancing. She said the transfers to education for AP Vojvodina would be increased, which is correct, and said the state deficit, the deficit of autonomous provinces and the deficit of local self-government could not be increased, so among these levels of government or the AP Vojvodina deficit. And that's all you said today in half an hour about the AP Vojvodina. You have not convinced me at all, you have not convinced the MPs SVM and LSV that the proposed budget rebalance is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, above all with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't even try to explain and deny everything we talked about yesterday and yesterday in front of reporters here at the House of the National Assembly. I don't know what that is, why you haven't used the opportunity to convince us that we're wrong, to convince us that this proposed budget rebalance is in line with the Constitution. And now I'm telling you that it's not in accordance with the Constitution, and you haven't said a word about this whole matter. I think there is a huge political problem when the government delivers a motion to parliament that is not in line with the Constitution. That is a huge problem, then, because a country's democratic functioning is at stake. We didn't vote for this constitution when it was brought in for two reasons. One was that at the time we had no MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that is an objective reason. And there is also a subjective reason, for example, I did not vote in a referendum to confirm this constitution because I do not consider it good at the present time for the Republic of Serbia, for the AP Vojvodina, as part of the Republic of Serbia and for some other reasons. When you have already adopted this constitution by a vast majority several years ago, then this constitution should be respected and no specific provisions should be selectively respected without some provisions being respected from the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday and yesterday, I said in the National Assembly that Vojvodina had brought a budget of 59.8 billion dinars for the current year, and that the proposed rebalance envisioned only 46 billion dinars. I haven't heard from you today, Madam Minister, against the argument and I haven't heard from you other figures, I wanted to hear it, so let me see that we are possibly wrong and that we can say – that, we agree, the proposed rebalancing is in line with the Constitution and we will certainly support the rebalancing. I am unable to do this because the figures are an exact thing and these figures say that Vojvodina will not be able to use seven percent of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It will not be possible because, if we look at one side of the budget, receiving the Republic of Serbia, then it is 6.4% of the budget as planned. If we look at the spending side, the other side of the Republic of Serbia's budget, then the picture is even more catastrophic, it's only 5.7% of the republican budget. Mrs Dragutinovic, yesterday we heard all sorts of things from you in the National Assembly lobby, you said that seven percent should count on the arrival of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why that is, because if that were the case, then, by analogy, it should count on it to fund political parties. It's not the same law, but the system should be the same. If we're going from income to one topic, then we should go from income to other topics, but it's not defined for Vojvodina and it's not good that it's not defined, but it's not our fault, which is not exactly regulated. If we look at revenues, once again, it's only 6.4% of the budget and the AP Vojvodina couldn't spend seven percent of the republican budget in the current year. I know, you will now say that the positions of the Republic's income and expenditure are such and that you have not changed Article 4 that regulates the position of the AP Vojvodina. That's what your State Secretarys tried to explain to the Finance Committee two days ago, but I can tell you that they weren't convincing, so I don't advise you to repeat that, because it's not relevant and it's not true. It is not relevant how much the Vojvodina will get from the budget, but it is relevant whether all these funds can be used. The Duchess can't use all the funds, because for example, 40% of the NIS sales price has not been transferred and cannot be transferred until the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina is passed. Who guarantees that this law will be passed by the end of this year? What are we going to do if we get to reality, say December 20th, and find out that that law hasn't been passed and that you won't be able to transfer that money and that Vojvodina, for example. He won't get seven percent. You didn't even say that Vojvodina would be obliged to reduce its deficit from 23% to 6%. You didn't say it exactly and exactly. You didn't say now or how you feel a member 184 is being implemented. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "Budget AP Vojvodina is at least seven per cent compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. ". Where you found in this sentence confirmation of what you said yesterday, that Vojvodina is obliged to receive seven percent, or that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to transfer that money, only on condition that Vojvodina assumes new powers, that a law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina be passed. This applies exclusively to the 40%, unfortunately, because you adopted at the last hour in December a single amendment to the opposition that so proposed. And that's when you got into a situation, and it wasn't even an opportunity to propose a budget that was directly contrary to the Constitution. You are now doing this, not personally, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the third or fourth time. Serbia would be the only country in mankind's history where the most important law the Assembly makes in a year, the budget, could be brought down in the Constitutional Court. I got a lot of questions from the press yesterday. They asked me – are we going to ask for the constitutionality of the rebalancing if it is adopted this way? What can I say? Of course we will ask the Constitutional Court to assess whether the proposal, in that case, is the adopted rebalancing, in accordance with the Constitution, because we have no other options. I hope to appeal to this occasion, too, that we will find a solution together. We're not looking for anything for SVM, we're not looking for anything for LSV, we're not looking for anything for Hungarians, we're not looking for Vojvodina, we're asking for respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not because it's good, but because it's valid. There is a very big problem if the proposal does not comply with the Constitution. What's the root of the problem? The root of the problem is that you forgot to inform the IMF that Serbia has a constitution. You forgot to inform the IMF that this constitution contains a guarantee of seven percent for the AP Vojvodina. It is one mistake that would be good to admit, but it is a mistake that can be corrected by the day to vote on the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. on rebalancing. I hope we find a common solution, because our goal is not to bring down the government. I think it would be a very bad solution for us to go to elections at these moments of crisis, which you've discussed in detail. It is simply not natural and it is not normal for us to fight for the respect of the Constitution, instead of fighting for bigger money for agriculture, bigger money for national councils, local self-governments, offices for European integration, to fight for this state and government to respect the Constitution. It's just not natural because we can't fight for our goals, because if we had some amendments, then you could say – you gave these amendments, you're also talking about 7%, you certainly want to act as if these amendments were adopted. That's why we didn't want to risk it, that's why we didn't have any amendments, but we expect you to bring this proposal into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and if that happens by the day of the vote, we will certainly vote for this budget rebalance, and if not, then you will have to look for another majority for this bill that will be very difficult to form. In the end, what I'm saying is nothing new, and that's what I was talking about yesterday and the day before, just because you could react in time. It would be best if you had proposed an amendment until the beginning of this debate, but there are modalities to do so. Just a few more sentences about what some politicians have been saying to the ruling majority in recent days. It has been said, for example, that Vojvodina must be solidarity. I agree, but we can't solidify at the price that this constitution that's bad is overrun, but it's valid. It is also said that we who represent Vojvodina are expected to see that this is not about individual or group interests and the achievement of these interests, but about the state interest. I agree, but the state's interest is that the constitution is respected, because without the principle of constitutionality, Serbia cannot seek anything on its way to the EU and the RS government must accept it as reality. Madam Minister, you are not yet Harry Potter and yet, not personally, but the Government has proposed one act, the most important act, the budget, or the changes and additions of the budget, contrary to the Constitution. I hope that together we will find a solution and that by bringing this proposal into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you will allow the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians to vote for budget rebalancing for 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18234	The word has an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary club, Mr Nenad Popovic. Here you go. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18235	Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you are incompetent, that is a fundamental remark. That remark is much bigger, even than the fact that you lied and promised the people a bunch of things we've never seen before. Everything you promised we could promise, but there's a big difference, because we would keep it, and you can't keep those promises. That's why you should leave, because you're incompetent. Where is that 1,000 euros per citizen of Serbia for free action? Where are the pensions at 70% of the salary? Where are those 200,000 jobs? Where's "Fiat"? Finally, the most important question, where is this Europe? What, gentlemen, means your words and promises I will try to explain. In October, when the crisis had already rocked America, Europe and Serbia, you told us that the crisis would not affect us and that there was no reason to panic. You said further that the crisis is our great development opportunity and that all these European companies will leave Germany, Austria and other European countries, that they will come to invest in Serbia. For the New Year's Eve, the Prime Minister told us - we won't live any better, but surely we won't live up there just to tighten the belt a little bit. What happened next to all those promises and forecasts? How do you feel today, gentlemen of the government, when you see citizens and remember what you promised us? I can tell you how the citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel. They feel cheated. That's why they feel that way. Now it is clear to everyone that you are incompetent, that you have neither strength nor wisdom nor experience to draw the Republic of Serbia out of the biggest economic crisis. That's why you need to go and give someone else a chance to deal with this global crisis, but before that, he has to clean up all this mess you've made. In the previous period, when budget rebalances were being made for 2008 and the 2009 budget, we said they were made with a high dose of unrealistic optimism. This budget was created by the IMF, and the budget content is a ratio of strength in the government, the relationship between the coalitions representing this government. So we had two press conferences, one press conference, where measures were discussed, and suggestions on what would be in the budget, and another press conference, if you remember, when they spoke of what we gave up. Of course, the government is spreading unrealistic optimism. One vice president of the economy said that we are in opposition spreading pessimism. The Deputy Prime Minister has not worked a single business day. He doesn't know what business is, except on paper. We who meet with the economy every day, we know what's going on today. In Serbia, there is an economic recession that could result in a catastrophic situation in the autumn. Probably if we didn't know anything about the economy, we'd probably be optimistic too, because today the optimist can only be the one who doesn't know anything, and those are the ones who run a major resort in this government. Of course, I don't have to say that we were saying that imports and exports would be smaller. We've been telling you that VAT revenue is going down, we've told you that US Steel is going to shut down one and another. Optimism, false optimism, it's very dangerous for the economy, for the businessmen. When you spread it, the businessmen think and trust you, foreign banks complain about your optimism. They're making their annual projections based on your optimism, based on one completely unrealistic optimism, and tomorrow they can be caught in a big loan trap and everything that burdens the economy today. Of course, I don't have to say that this memorandum of economic policy that we didn't get hasn't been changed. It still says it will be 3.5% GDP growth, now it's talking about a 2% GDP decline. My estimates are that the fall will be much, much greater. Of course, that's what we're talking about. Now I would go back to this budget that we got, that is, budget rebalance. First of all, I have to say that this budget, you see, was made without a businessman and didn't take into account the demands of the economy at all, what should be created by capital in this country, was already made as a result of a coalition's desire to survive in power. That is why, I responsibly say in this assembly, in a few months, at the latest by autumn, we will have a rebalance of the budget. These measures by the government, which are extremely well presented, as well as those of the previous ones whose results were practically zero, and in two or three months, it will prove that these measures of government are just one big marketing, unfortunately. One of the key things is reducing the agricultural budget. In addition, the budget of everything that stimulates economic development has been reduced, the NIP budget has been reduced, the infrastructure budget has been reduced and, of course, the economy ministry. Although, as far as the Ministry of Economy is concerned, it might be a good thing they cut it down there so we don't have any additional ski resorts, that's the only thing I support in this budget. The deficit growth has gone from 50 to 70 billion. But that's not the problem. And other countries are now creating a deficit. But all countries, and Russia, and America, and the European countries, which are now on their way to the deficit, the deficit is going to increase to invest in the country's development priorities and resuscitate production. When we had a deficit in the 2009 budget, it was justified that it would be invested in the largest development project in this country, the largest Serbian business of the century, the business with the "Fiita". Of course, that job didn't work out, and now we're the only country going into deficits, not investing in development projects in the country. The worst has passed, as usual, agriculture. Agriculture employs 500 thousand people directly and close to a million people indirectly. In the 2009 budget, when we were bringing it, this government reduced by 25% to farmers' budgets. Now we're cutting it by 25%, 4.5 billion more. The NIP, which is supposed to be the generator of economic development, investment in infrastructure has been reduced from 12 billion to 3 billion. The infrastructure has been cut by three billion. I don't know from which sources you intend to start the economy. Let me just give you one more piece of information. We are the only government that has singled out only 100m euros directly to help the economy. The fact that banks should single out 20 times more, that's something else entirely. The economy doesn't have a good financial balance, it doesn't have a good economic situation, it doesn't have enough mortgages to take those loans. Only one small percentage of Serbia's companies are able to take these subsidies from one to two percent. Ninety-eight percent of companies are unable to borrow loans from commercial banks today. I must say that we have allocated 100m euros for agriculture, and Albania has allocated 300m for the economy, Croatia two billion. I don't have to say that Croatia is twice as small. So, the role of the Croatian government in helping the Croatian economy is 40 times higher than the Serbian government for the Serbian economy. Of course, we have to understand that if agriculture starts to fail, we all have to worry. Today, agriculture in Serbia is not just an economic category. Agriculture in Serbia, history has shown in the last 30 years, has a large social category. When we had sanctions, when there were bombings and all, however, people with the help of the agriculture they were dealing with, directly and indirectly, managed to survive. This government is the only one in Europe, in the world has made a crazy decision to unilaterally apply the SAA, and thus we have exposed 40% of the products to a fierce competition of EU agricultural products, and these EU producers have subsidies of 3-20 times the size of Serbian producers. We made this crazy decision, by the proposal of one of our great economists from this government, it was his idea, we exposed it to the most severe competition. I can only think that there is a strategic programme behind this for the destruction of Serbian agriculture. Not to say that after these decisions of yours, close to 400,000 owners in Serbia, 365,000, will be entitled to subsidies this year, because they have someone in the family who works. What do people do in agriculture? Today you with 20 acres, if you have, can hardly survive. I'd like to see someone have 10 acres to live at these prices. Do you know what 10 acres is? Where are those who don't have any acres? Today your price of corn is the same as the price of cereals. She was never smaller. The farmers are on their way to destruction today. Let's move on – raise pensions. You have made your own decision to increase pensions in order to meet the pre-election increase of your coalition partners – PUPS. That was in 2008. What's going on now? The government is hiding, like a snake's foot, the data that this budget rebalance is now going to increase the allocation from the 24 billion PIO budget. Issuing is increasing from 189 to 213 billion. Do you know what this means – that the economy pays nothing in the PIO Fund. Instead of paying the economy at the PIO Fund, 24 billion will be paid out of the budget and we will get to that, the only one in Europe, that the pension fund's budget will be close to 40%. It's nowhere in Europe. And so far we've been the first, we've had about 30% detachment from the budget to the PIO Fund, and now it's going to be close to 40%. You see, instead of the state focusing 24 billion on the economy, which would then pay contributions to the PIO Fund, the state reduces the economy and sends money directly to the PIO Fund. Well, soon, the PIO fund won't be able to fill at all. Both small and medium-sized businessmen move to salaries in envelopes. I know dozens of them who started paying net wages, no more contributions and taxes. It leads to a huge disaster. It's the essence of what the government doesn't understand that the PIO fund has to be filled from the economy, not the budget. Of course, the government needed the IMF to start saving. We also said that on budget rebalancing, we also said when the 2009 budget was being made. Just to mention, in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, 34 thousand people have lost their jobs in the last 2-3 months. I'm afraid by October that number will be raised to 100,000 people. It's a huge danger, and I don't think this government has any way to solve this problem at all. I'd like to say that there's one thing that the government has remained very consistent with, I'm going to repeat one more time, the only one that hasn't changed, and that budget rebalance has continuity and stability, and these are the incentives for "Fiat." There's the Ministry of Economy, one of the vice-presidents of the government who likes to deal with the economy, wants to deal with private entrepreneurship, but doesn't want to build his own company. Let's see this Deputy Prime Minister, make his own company of 1,000 people, make a business with the Fiat private, pay taxes and contributions, be a wonderful businessman in Serbia. No, it's all about state money. They want to go to RTB Bor, and that was a statement specifically from the vice president, it wasn't the government's decision, usually what this Deputy Prime Minister says, they want the government to buy equipment for the Bor. Probably that from this division of the economy ministry at function 41, EC 621, remains a substantial sum of 13 billion dinars. From the contract with the "Fiat", let me tell you, it is the only certain investment of the Republic of Serbia. Since we unilaterally apply the SAA, it seems that we have unilaterally set out to apply this agreement with the "Fiita". The state has singled out, and the Fiat has an obligation to pay 200m euros by 31 March has not paid a single cent. That's how it's gonna be until the end, that's what we've been saying six or seven times. I will return to what we propose as a serious opposition, as an opposition proposing a realistic programme to get out of the crisis, which is the programme of our DSS-NS coalition and the Serbian People's Party Maja Gojkovic. First, we have solutions, and that solution means we have to make a strategy. Just to mention, four governments have fallen since the start of the economic crisis in Europe. The government of Iceland fell, the government of Lithuania, Hungary, the Czech Republic fell, at a time when the Czech Republic chaired the EU. I deeply hope, in the interest of the Serbian citizens, that you will be next. The key problem today in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is liquidity. We have to have a strategy. The strategy must be based on a minimum of three or four years, because the crisis will take so long. Three key things are in the strategy. The first is to preserve the economy, the second is to preserve jobs and the third is to preserve citizens' standards. We can only do this if we encourage consumption and encourage business activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Promoting consumption and economic activity, we can only do that if the money is invested in four key sectors. It's the first building. Why? Construction, like industry, employs close to 100 activities of various, and employs the largest number of workforce and employs the largest number of subcontractors. And most importantly, construction and construction materials are almost 80% of domestic production. By hiring a building, we create a cycle that can generate not only new jobs but, most importantly, consumption. Repeatedly, 100 different works are involved in construction. The second sphere where we have to invest in production is agriculture because it employs the largest number of workforce and the third is infrastructure and energy. Since there's a lot of advertising, and I can see that there's a budget, the opening of these 10,000 jobs, because the marketing ministry is going to call it, employ 10,000 young people. I have to say, to preserve one job, and that's what your colleagues will tell you, there he is from Simpa Nikolic, etc. It's 10 times cheaper than creating a new job. The government of the Republic of Serbia should now be directed exclusively to the preservation of domestic jobs. With these budgets, we could save 10 times more jobs, 100,000 jobs, rather than "open" 10,000 new ones. It's a short time and I want to say that we have to go back, within this programme, and return to concessions, because concessions and public private partnerships are the best projects, because they provide for the development of infrastructure projects without budgetary burdens. We don't need any funding for concessions, so 95% of European highways were built, it was built on concessions. The only ones who gave up at the time of the concession, at the time of the biggest economic crisis on the highway, was this government. Why? To attract resources and build. The funds are gone. We've cut now to NIP by nine billion. Finally, in conclusion, I would ask you as representatives of the government, what it's like to remember everything you've promised and to face your own incompetence. Do you know how citizens feel? I'll tell you how citizens feel. Citizens feel completely deceived and deceived. There was no government that promised more, and she didn't do anything. If you don't believe me, check and ask the citizens if you can, go to the polls and check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18236	Given the stormy events in the morning, the seriousness of the topic, I'm setting a break, in terms of article 85, and I'm scheduled to resume in 14.45 hours. The first speaker will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you. [[After break – 14.50]] Good afternoon. Dear People's MPs, we begin our afternoon work and, as I have announced, the word has been made by the president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the Minister of Finance, who took out a truly dreary picture of the situation, although we would expect more from her, since and only her name says that when she was being baptized, he thought she might be a protector, so we really expected that when a woman praised by her colleagues became a minister of finance, she could protect us from the troubles and the troubles that her predecessors had gotten us into. However, it seems, Mrs Dragutinović, if you do not know Roman mythology, the temple dedicated to the goddess Diana was located outside the walls of Rome, they did not allow him to enter Rome. Looks like you were better off staying out of that government, too. That temple was one of the most respected and respected, and you could have really kept your reputation, not to spoil it by hanging out with those who in seven years' time the government led us to make the budget four times bigger, to go from 180 billion to 720 billion in four years. What does that mean? What did you spend from 180 billion to 720 in the same country? What'd you get those incomes for? By selling state, social, people's property, you thought it would last most of the time. Every year we'll sell something, if we don't sell it, we'll be in debt. You make us happy for a little while, and you say, "Now we're going to give credit to people to repay their loans." It's called greening in my neighborhood, you borrow one with 5% interest, so when you can't go back to another person who's asking for 8%, so when you go to third, then you have to sell kids to get back what you got by borrowing under green conditions. I listened very carefully. You didn't dare tell us what was going to happen. Your discussion and your budget rebalance are unrealistic, they're already overcome. You've found about 80 billion or so. You say 30 in new incomes, 50 in reduced expenditures, but when we look at those new revenues, I haven't seen that 12 billion of those are some kind of revenue, if you don't point the transfers where they should be directed anymore, and in taxes, excise and customs revenues. For what? For consumption. We've been warning you for years that until the revenues are achieved by production from this country, there will be nothing. I don't think you'd be happy to follow logic – get in charge or sell. I really think there is another kind of economic logic with you, which is not referred to by Dosovites, who have never even been involved in the organisation or organisation of production. No one else in Serbia is producing anything. Yesterday someone was discussing, the truth was wrong, he might have told the truth, but that should be avoided a little bit, how some foreign partners in our country can't find a cooperative at all because we don't have quality. How do we have, when you opened our borders in 2001 and freed our customs goods from imports and then stopped producing. What would we invest in our production if, thanks to you providing cheap loans, we could buy it all from abroad branded? You taught us in these seven years that we should buy branded goods, because it's going to be very cheap, and you're going to let us work and make all that money. Now we've come where we are. Linearly you take off the ministries some discretionary rights of the ministers, you don't think what's important when the state needs to survive or when a householder needs to survive -- that it's the most important food. The most important thing is what you bring into the house every day in a small bag. Will the prices of these products be frozen? You said 15% this year an increase in all communals, taxes, services. What to increase us by 15% of that price, to cut our salaries by 10 to 20%, not to freeze the price of living supplies – do you think anyone will survive? If you adopted the budget on December 30th, and in February we were ready for rebalancing, when is the next rebalancing? What prognosis do we get into this rebalancing? What's waiting for us? I see so many of you today, Boris Tadic, humiliated him to discuss with Anto Markovic a difficult financial crisis that is ruling Serbia. What's he talking to Anta Markovic when he's got a finance minister? Couldn't he have gotten good advice from you, or maybe it's your fault that politicians who are in power don't serve economic logic and are not preparing a defensive misery against the crisis waiting for us? I'm looking at the Prime Minister's advisors, the economic advisors. One of them is attacking him. What he told you about raising pensions -- that it could have saved as much as he said, maybe 100 billion. But you made the government promise to raise your pensions and you had to raise them. Everyone can fail, but your promises when you made a government can't. Your promises to live better are not important, but the promises made to some parties to bring those 126 you so eagerly awaited this morning must be fulfilled. And what you care about millions of citizens, it is important to you to satisfy the interests of coalition partners and to keep the government as long as possible. I can't take too long for you to have any sympathy, you're involved in all this, I didn't hear you rebelling anywhere. I didn't hear anywhere that you warned Mladjan Dinkic and his group not to go like this anymore, and that this is a crash. To make this happen in 2001, in the economy of destruction, we had nothing to sell or destroy the economy. We did everything we could. Now that we've sold out everything, and the garden and the estate, now we have to live by serving someone. To whom should we serve? Where are the foreign investors? I was already on the move when you made a promise, I didn't believe anything, but I remember what the governor of the National Bank of Mladjan Dinkic said – this year loans for cars, next year loans for the apartment. God forbid who took those credits, he's holding his head today. The fact that you fooled us that the crisis wouldn't be, that the budget was extraordinary, that you lied to us in 2006 that we were doing positive business when Mladjan Dinkic taught the Ministry of Finance to Cvetkovic, so the IMF warned you that you had hidden some 30 billion debts and therefore turned out to be positive, it doesn't bother you. You lie to each other in the eyes and pass that lie on to the citizens of Serbia, and that is how it flows to you, it goes nicely. What can we do in this situation? I wish you all good luck and all your success. I don't wish you what happens at the end of the summer or early in the fall. It happens to me, to my children, to yours and to everyone. We'll have fractures in Serbia. You act like nothing's going to happen, like these papers will get rid of everything, new excises, new taxes, and the border open to importing other people's goods without customs. You complain about the change in the structure of consumption, the external trade balance, you complain about reduced development, growth in the economy. Why don't you complain, why don't you do something? Who are you complaining to? Indeed, in my life I have not heard a more dreary picture and a forecast of your exposure. You spoke negatively, as if you were in opposition. You spoke frankly, I just didn't hear what you were going to do. I didn't hear a word of encouragement or optimism. Now I have to stand here again for two months and talk about saying something two months or five years ago? Is there a responsibility? Do any of you feel any responsibility? You've gone all the way to the Assembly, now the Parliament is a black sheep. Everything can be saved in the National Assembly. I don't even know what we're holding sessions, we could sit at home, send us decisions and vote electronically, in a modern way. You'll find a sponsor for one laptop at a time, or you'll let us take it home without us showing up here anymore. Milan Obrenovic kept lawmakers under arrest and brought them only when they needed to vote the budget. Now that's how I feel. You brought us here to declare your budget rebalance that you yourself know is unsustainable. I didn't notice you found anything. I see the government announcing that all members of the government will attend a session at which the government is talking about reduced salaries in the administration. It's like you've got to brag about how you're gonna take these clerks, who don't take anything home, to cut their wages. Those who are rich in Serbia do not live on wages, live on incomes that are not taxed, live on workers whose incomes are not taxed. As you rightly said in 2001 that many budget revenues go through secret channels and don't register anywhere, you have it today. As you rightly said, the grey economy has taken over Serbia, that people do not report workers, that workers will welcome the situation to retire without paid contributions and obligations, it is happening to you now. The same economic advisers advised Mirko Marjanović and Mirko Cvetkovic, the same people, physically, personally the same people, so they can only advise anyone if you allow them to advise you. What have you been investing in for eight years? In consumption? That consumption would bring revenue to the state? Does a good host do that? To settle the budget by spending, not by producing? And now you're saying, you're gonna make up the consumption. And what will the people buy, for those to whom you cut your wages, what will they buy to put into the budget? How much do you think budget revenues are going to be reduced by three months? Don't lie to us that this can survive. Let's take some responsibility for you and me, so whoever's wrong to do something public to prove he's responsible. Mrs. Tabakovic better speak to you as an economist, if it makes any more sense to speak here from the point of view of science. If you were to speak, and if science were your starting point, you wouldn't be sitting there now defending budget rebalancing. You've killed yourself in the government who's going to cut who to whom, and in the end, you've been doing a linear reduction. It doesn't matter if all ministries have less linearly than they were supposed to. You don't even know how much we need a peasant now, how much we need a farm. Maybe you weren't there when the crisis was tough, when they were cold and hungry in the winter, and when we were just looking at the peasants, whether they were going to give birth or not. For two years, God has had mercy on us. This year I see it as a drought. Maybe the wheat won't be as much as you expected, unfortunately, and I'd like it to be. But I do have some small estate, and I see that the drought slowly takes its toll, nothing, nor rots, nor does it dry, stands in the ground and waits for vegetation. What awaits vegetation, comes May, two rains and wheat ripe. I'm afraid you're completely laity-leading the state, without a sense of responsibility. You didn't feel that responsibility in 2001, but there were plenty, people hungry, eager for everything, you let him buy and he had a good time. He was in charge, licking, there's a parking lot in New Belgrade for cars that have been taken away because the lease isn't being paid, bigger and bigger. There are already thousands of cars taken away, soon they'll be taking home. Will there be any responsibility with you at DOS? You don't want to print money, but the economy minister says America is printing dollars. You won't try to help those who fail. I hear you're preparing a bankruptcy law and I see the ministers writing and banning the company's bankruptcy, and they weren't the head of it, getting involved in everything and everything. Today you are truly almost a deity, but the deity to which your godfather bound you was protective, you are not even thunders to sow, but to protect people. Mrs Dragutinović, look to protect the poorest, we only take care of them when we speak in the Assembly, and we run away from seeing someone poor or someone begging, because we are aware that we are all guilty of it. And if our people weren't so proud, you wouldn't be able to walk down the street from the beggars. Ask the president of the congregation what is the trend in the growth of the disease she is treating because people no longer bring in any dinars in the house and ask her where are our children running from homes where parents have nothing to offer them. Is anyone in the government happy, even if it's the most beautiful thing in the world, driving the best car, driving the best skis, doing whatever he wants, buying anything he wants, is anyone satisfied? I see you've decided to tear the MPs apart, yes. Although we haven't been paid in three and a half years, we can't complain, because everyone's gonna say what they're complaining about, sit there and fight, and fight, they didn't do any good for the state, they got a lot of big pay. Tell Serbian citizens that in the past three and a half years, since our salaries have not been increased, you have increased not only salaries but also the coefficients in the state administration. Tell them that every change in DOS government has brought new officials, and the old ones have stayed where they sat and there's no room for tables and chairs in your offices anymore. Say that every political party that has taken over certain resors employs their own people without doubt. Say it freely, say how much cost it is for the state and would we all be a little happier if you weren't so greedy, you who lead Serbia from small parties, and you can't go to elections alone, you who don't owe the country anything, nothing positive, and you owe it to it for all time. So these ten years in Serbia's history, ten years of peace and development, will remain recorded as ten years of missed chances. Serbia, thanks to you who know nothing about the state, which you know nothing about production and economy, remained denied for ten years of development. Europe is getting further away from us, you cannot seriously cooperate with Russia with Dinkic, wander like geese in the fog, without compasses... Yes, it is, but you laugh, the gas deal and the energy agreement were in crisis because of a young man named Dinkic, the crazy one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18239	The word has the president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18240	Dear People's MPs, Mrs Dragutinovic, first of all, in a few sentences to refer to the exposition of the predecessor. I expected the leader, he said, to propose some concrete measures to address the crisis, but I'm not sure it's in a position, since something called the economic team obviously doesn't exist anymore. We heard Professor Dejan Miljkovic left the team, we don't know what's going on with Professor Bojan Dimitrijevic. In any case, at the time she threatened, so to speak, the reconstruction of the government and how some hoped that some would be expelled from the government, and that others would run, then some economists came and some economic measures were made in October – we now see that there is nothing. Instead of proposing how Serbia could fight this crisis, we could only listen to a twenty-minute mourner about where Serbia is. But, well, I don't want to waste my time on what I heard earlier and what was said, but I'd like to talk about the budget rebalancing that's on the agenda today. We are here at the end, with severe torment, but we have admitted that, regardless of the crisis, Serbia will not cause it, and how it will have its consequences and that it is necessary to bring a whole series of measures, including lex specialis, to even passively respond to the global economic crisis. We all know that the economic crisis that arises at the global economic centre not only affects the economies of the countries on the periphery and has a slight impact on the transport of goods and capital, but it usually affects them sometimes and harder than the centre itself. The reason for this regularity lies in the structural disadvantages of these economies, which were recently covered by rather high growth rates and almost no one was bothered by the fact that the growth rested on the loan-funded consumption and was not monitored by export capacity. Unfortunately, now all these structural shortcomings and the lack of structural reforms are seen much clearer than before, because there is now no economic growth. That optimistic forecast of 3.5 percentage points of growth this year is very fast, I would say under the pressure of reality, revised, and for this year we see a decline in economic activity of 2%. I would say that the government had no place left, except that, with the recognition that we entered the recession, it suggested a package of measures contained here in the rebalancing and in the following laws that we are talking about. These are short-term and extorted measures that need to treat the consequences because they cannot treat the cause of the crisis. There is also no guarantee that in a few months we will not get a new package of measures that can be lighter or stricter than those proposed, which will naturally depend on the future effects of the global crisis on Serbia's economy. If we look at the data on the drop in industrial production, the drop in imports and exports, I'm afraid we can't expect any softer measures than these – but additional belt tightening. I am the IMF, as the minister said in her opening statement, every once in a while reviewing its initial forecasts. Now this last one, which came out on Wednesday, says -- that the decline of a global social product will be 1.3 percentage points, the biggest drop since the great economic crisis of the 1930s. It is also said, at the same time, that the recovery of the world economy is expected only in half of 2010, which, of course, does not automatically mean that the recovery of the Serbian economy will then begin. What do we see in the proposal for rebalancing and following laws? First, we see that the state has decided to save a billion euros. That's what the biggest spending cuts have been saying since 2000. It's called – one big fiscal adjustment. Secondly, the budget deficit is increasing to three percentage points, which is the ultimate limit for one responsible fiscal policy and, if we forget to mention, and a master criteria for countries within the EU. So now we're in a situation where we can spend just a little bit more than we create, while over the years, we all know that, we've spent a lot more than we could have. We're objectively creating less, because we can't sell goods to someone who's in a major crisis alone. How did our country decide to save a billion euros? You were lucky enough to give up the introduction of a solidarity tax, so it went to a downsizing of the biggest spender, which is exactly the state. In fact, I would say that the government had little choice – either it could raise taxes or it could reduce consumption. If it can be said that there has been anything good since the global economic crisis and the economic crisis in Serbia began, it is precisely a reduction in public spending. It's just proof that we had and we have an overpriced state. It simply raises the question of how did the government manage to make this easy to cheap the state by a billion euros in just a few days without it being possible in previous years? Of course, there could have been a reduction in public spending before and, of course, public spending should be low. That is why I hope that even after leaving the crisis, the states will continue to fuck, not to collect. The key question is whether the public sector is now being asked to work effectively or only to be reduced in extortion, and will continue to grow the moment the crisis stops. Again, I sincerely hope that this is the first question, because this crisis has finally done something that we have missed, and that is a political consensus on the fact that the state is expensive to us, as citizens and experts have pointed out all along, not only but also warned. Is this package enough to fight recession or will new savings be needed and new taxes remain to be seen? When these measures are implemented, will they be assessed whether they are effective, whether they are optimal or not? They're not ideal, but I haven't heard better. What is safe – these measures are enough as regards the programme with the IMF, as most of the package refers to savings rather than revenue increases, which would certainly be inflationary. Generally everywhere in Europe is going to budget rebalances and this is going down to rebalances. If we look only at our environment, we will see that both in Montenegro and Slovenia, both in Croatia and Macedonia, the previous budget projections have been adjusted, because everyone, just like us, expected higher revenue for this year. The problems of the Serbian economy are independent of the world, but in this crisis they only deepen. Unfortunately, we are now paying for unfinished or unstarted reforms. Someone says that reforms cannot be implemented in a crisis – it simply is not true, because the crisis must not be an excuse for inaction. I'm just reminding you that Margaret Thatcher, in the midst of the biggest crisis that has hit Britain, has carried out a reform. On the other hand, most of us have proletarian blood. Because, apart from the cry for major state intervention or cry for the bosses, I don't hear any calls for further reforms. Even at a time of crisis, investors come to countries that are trying to reform and where investments are worth it. How will investors come to Serbia when Serbia has been at the bottom of a list of countries worth investing in for the last few years? That's not what I'm saying, it's what the World Bank says, and the World Economic Forum, and Transparens International and many other relevant international institutions say. Is it possible in a crisis to make guillotine regulations – of course it's possible? Is it possible to introduce a van-stop shop and speed up company registration, reduce time from 25 to five days – not only possible, but also desirable? I hope that's soon enough. Is it possible to reform the tax system so that it is not only for the purpose of increasing income, but for the system that is least harmful to the economy – of course it is possible? We are aware that no one is now considering expensive reforms – pension reform or denationalisation, restitution, although Serbia is unfortunately the only post-Communist country that has not done denationalisation and restitution, but that has previously completed the privatisation, which is one of the anomalies of our economic system. So there are reforms that cost nothing or cost very little, and that improves the business environment and should have ended them long ago. We also need to change laws, to ensure greater legal certainty for investors, to reduce corruption at all levels – we can do all of this at a time of crisis, but it is a matter of will to make certain decisions, especially to implement them. So one part of this package of measures refers to fiscal adjustment, and the other part to the establishment of internal liquidity, because external liquidity and macroeconomic stability – are provided by agreement with the IMF. I was talking about fiscal adjustment, and as far as the internal liquidity measure is concerned, I will mention that banks have a request for 525m euros of subsidized liquidity loans, and that 220m euros have been granted so far. The maximum interest rate of 5.5 percentage points at which banks approve liquidity loans can be reduced, as so-called. The European interest rate, i.e. the interest rate of the European Investment Bank, from three percentage points to 1.25%. A sum of 162 billion dinars for liquidity loans has been approved, a significant amount in this budget rebalance proposal. Things are slightly different when it comes to loans for investments, because they are more slowly approved, as long-term loans and banks are detailed analyses of investment programmes prior to the loan approval, although it should be mentioned that the requirements amounted to 22m euros, and that the first three loans were granted ten days ago. I also mention a programme of active employment measures for 10,000 young trainees, a public work programme, loans for mortgage-free beginners, all together this year should provide about 30,000 jobs. I'd like to say that the way out of all crises came through new technological developments, through new products that increased private, not state demand. When we see stable data on increasing private demand in the U.S., where the crisis occurred and where it spread from, we will know that the economy is slowly recovering. When exactly that will be, no one knows. Let's not expect our government or any individual to know when the world's recovery will begin, hence the recovery of the economy in Serbia, just as no one expected the world to be affected by the crisis of these scales. So let's just see if this is the first and only budget rebalance this year or if we have any additional austerity measures ahead. Finally, I would like to ask two questions concerning concrete budget items. We saw in the rebalancing proposal that the number of ministries remains the same for the start. I think it's time to stop distracting citizens by bidding on the number of ministries needed by Serbia, which will end, which will connect the ministries. It is obvious that we do not have this political consensus and that we are going forward until the consensus is reached in such a colorful and large coalition government. Secondly, I want to ask -- why is the DRI budget from 193 million down to 98 million? That's a 50% reduction. The main task of the DRI is to control the spending of taxpayers' money, because when we set up DRI, I wonder if the intention was just to satisfy the form, not to really enable the control of public finances, because every day we face issues of media and the public about funding, for starters, the National Assembly, and then political parties and other budget users. Unless we are satisfied with the work of the State Auditing Institution, we should say so. The fact is, they didn't do anything last year. But it's an institution, if some individuals don't do their job, those individuals are easily resilient. As far as I know, they've called in a competition for auditors. They've got auditors at work, but they still don't have working conditions and we can meet them in the halls of the National Assembly looking for a place to sit and start doing their job. The second observation refers to the difference in the budget between the National Assembly and the BIA. The BIA budget is two and a half times larger than the National Assembly budget. If someone didn't get me wrong, of course this country needs BIA, but the question is whether this country needs a parliament that is under constant campaign. I think this is the only country in Europe where the government is campaigning against its parliament. We agreed to cut all costs. This is the most open institution. Every three months, it's costing the public. I didn't notice, I don't know who had an insight into the costs, the expenditures of any other institution in Serbia, not to mention those 102 agencies, which, believe me, I can't find out with great effort why they exist, what they do and when they're going to be abolished. That's some questions and some observations. When you take it as a matter of fact, you can answer it. In any case, the G17 Plus Parliament Club will support all these government measures and budget rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18241	Thank you, Mrs. Grubishic. The word has been authorised by the representative of the SRS parliamentary group Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18242	Mr. Novakovicu, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and in the first place Serbian citizens, there is no stronger subject than budget rebalance and analysis of what the government has come up with in what way we will all function during a fiscal year, especially for the opposition. As a rule, the government is taking the exam just as the subject is on the agenda. The government shows its weakness or its strength, its responsibility, or its irresponsibility precisely on the basis of how the budget itself was designed. It seems to me that in time we rang the alarm in the middle of last year, when we consulted certain independent economic experts, we sensed that we could get into a situation like this, a fire-extinguishing situation. In return, we got a really dirty media campaign from controlled regime media. Qualifications were different and here we are now in a situation where budget positions are shrinking so much because there is no money, when citizens are going to face everyday problems in terms of everyday survival. I must tell you, Mrs Dragutinovic, no one can be happy in this situation. The opposition, or the SRS, cannot exult over the fact that we have been right from the start, that what is our concept of the definition of the path of economic recovery of Serbia every day gets its approval, because in 2009, we are all in big trouble. With projections, forecasts, predicts we can't even make. I hope you also expect that it is perfectly clear that it is legitimate for the opposition to explain this in the smallest parts, to the smallest details, so that what the SRS will try to do during this debate, the united debate in principle, is to present a sharp criticism of what is the current government's economic policy, a sharp criticism of the irresponsibility of those who sign economic policy, because we think it could have been quite different to enter into the overdoing of the financial global crisis. This crisis has shown, that is, political correctness for your inherited condition, but has shown a number of problems and the lack of a reform course that was promised nine years ago. That is why we are now faced with terrible problems and there will be no family in Serbia that will not be touched in one way or another. That's why I have to say again that this is not a situation where the SRS would liken itself to the fact that she was right all along. This is a situation where we can say, regardless of what every political party eagerly expects to participate in power, but the most irresponsible move would be to go to elections in a situation where many people will not be able to use their health insurance, they will not be able to have certain social benefits, which will say they will not be able to heal, they will not be able to eat and many will be left without a roof over their heads, many will not be able to retain their means of transport. So, if we are not misunderstood, there is no electoral opportunity that the SRS has not used, but announcements and cheers for elections in these moments are still just selfish attempts to pick political points, and I guess that should be clear to everyone. We offered and gave our hand last year expecting that we would have the opportunity, together with representatives of the Serbian government, to find the right and constructive path to survival, the economic survival of the Serbian state, and hence the citizens of this country. But you missed that chance, and now it's definitely time to put out the fires, and there might be some more budget rebalances. As never before, regardless of our political inexperience, I would like to thank Mrs Grubjesic for her name and name of an independent economic expert, Dr Dejan Miljkovic, who helped the SRS go to the duel with Mrs Dragutinovic, because it was clear to me in the first place, that I should talk to the Doctor of Economic Sciences. And then I tried to consult economic experts, at least by title and weight of science doctors, long-time professor of the Faculty of Economics, in order to avoid what is recognizable for political allegations and crying stories, cheap political points, which would certainly lead me to redness on my cheeks, but to enter into a quality debate, with concrete data and a very precise, very precise analysis. I really thank Mr Miljkovic once again for the outstanding contribution he made in the analysis of this budget rebalance. With the circumstances of my other colleagues, they are not in a position to attend the debate, it seems to me, on the most important subject that one Parliament and one opposition can welcome and experience, and yet, for the second time unfortunately, the budget rebalance. I must also mention that Mr Dejan Mirović and Mr Dragan Stevanović, young Mr Ivan Inic, Mr Milorad Buha, Mr Ratko Ličina, Mrs Ivana Ivanovic, have participated in the preparation of the material for this debate. And I hope, Mrs Dragutinovic, that our budget criticism will be constructive and concrete, with very sharp qualifications, but will not come out of the sphere of decency. What I must also mention, and it is a political climate within which we are discussing budget rebalancing and I am very uncomfortable, I am glad that Mrs. Comic is at the presidency, I was really frustrated by the fact that you are surprised that the MP, who pulled my colleague Srboljub Zivanovic's hair, did it the second time, by coming out of rational behavior and reacting extremely emotionally. Then we turned our attention, knowing the mental circuit – it happened once, it will happen again – a completely correct reaction, but I'm surprised that something sharper and more concrete was not taken over the first time my colleague was torn apart by the hair. I am also pleased, there was a fellow from the ruling majority who was found to be Serbian radicals, compared to today's atmosphere, who were very severely punished, because what we started today on the most important topic, really does not serve power, especially those who are trying to introduce themselves to a very nice, nice and cultural one. I hope, Mrs. Komic, that this incident will be well thought out today, in the context of the protection of a man who could not protect himself, that this assembly will make sure that something like this never happens again. To get back on the subject, Serbian citizens should have heard something like this, what Dr Miljkovic, Dr. Economic Sciences, has given us, in order to qualify for this debate, is something that must be mentioned at the very beginning, and yet the climate within which we are talking about budget rebalancing. I am quite sure that Mrs Dragutinovic knows this, but because of the Serbian public several economic parameters that are very important, so that we actually understand that the situation is very serious, that this situation is also not for an unserious approach to such important economic problems. According to Dr Miljkovic, the decline in industrial production continues from the end of the previous year and, according to data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, industrial production is lower by 17.1% compared to January 2008 and 25% compared to the average in 2008. The processing industry, with 75.5% participating in total industrial production, recorded a 39.4% decline compared to the average in 2008, and seen as compared to January 2008, 24.5%. Exports of goods from Serbia fell by 30% in January 2009, compared to January 2008. Viewed in absolute amounts, this means a drop in exports by $696m, to $483m in January 2009. Exports of goods from Serbia to EU countries decreased by 30% compared to January 2008. The exports of repromaterials take the highest participation in our exports, and it decreased by 40% compared to January 2008. The share of exports to EU countries is 54% and 33% in Central and Eastern European countries. If imports to EU countries are dramatically reduced, for example, in Germany, in January 2009 imports were reduced compared to January 2008, 20% of the Central and Eastern European countries, and then we see that the tsunamis of the global financial economic crisis have actually reached Serbia's space. Also, the total imports in January 2009, as compared to January 2008, decreased by 43%, given that our manufacturing industry is highly import-dependent, then particularly concerned about the reduction of imports of repromated by 50% in January. Imports of repromated in January 2008 amounted to $979m, and in January 2009, $493m. This data, according to Dr Miljkovic, clearly illustrates the degree of slowdown of overall industrial production in Serbia, especially the decline of the processing industry of 24.5%. What is very important, since we will, during this debate, be very detailed in dealing with certain budget positions which, according to the words and analysis of the team that helped SRS MPs enter this debate, are very important. These are the specific positions of the budget that we compared to the Budget Law that we adopted at the end of last year. However, what special attention needs to be drawn to is the following fact. What Dr Miljkovic has brought to our attention is a particularly interesting article 8, which concludes that in Article 9. The budget law, after Article 2, adds a new position on 3 -- particularly in 2009, in the event that the receipts of the Republic of Serbia's budgets are made less than planned and after the measures laid down in Article 42 are taken. The law on the budgetary system, the government can decide that the amount of appraisal that cannot be used is entered into the current budget reserve. So, what is particularly interesting here, based on Dr Miljkovic's analysis, should first be introduced to Article 42. The law on the budgetary system, I intend to avoid all professional qualifications and terms in order to make the people as clear as possible a picture of budget rebalances. Article 42 states that if expenditure is increased or reduced on a proposal from the Minister, the execution of certain issuers may be suspended for no more than 45 days. The 5th position of this member concludes that in this case the government should inform the National Assembly. What's the point here? Therefore, the government has the possibility that, after the deadline of 45 days, certain appraisals simply exclude them from the implementation of the budget and transfer them to the current budget reserve. This further means that the amount of appraisal is still on the divisive side of the budget, but are no longer in the budget execution function. What is very interesting here, according to Dr Miljkovic, is again what should actually be an explanation of this economic classification of 551, it is non-financial property financed from NIP realisation funds, and the schedule and use of the assets of this appraisal is carried out under a special government act. So, a completely undefined position, however, if economic classifications are collected in different divisions, then you get about 10 billion dinar sums, which means that the government can elegantly reduce expenditure realisation, not expenditure itself, because the current budget reserve will increase by an additional 10 billion dinars. Of course, in this way this member also provides the Government with discretion over other positions in the budget, but with the need to inform the National Assembly. What is also logically observed, especially from the point of view of this Article 8, from which I am leaving in this debate on the rebalancing of the budget, the budget rebalancing leaves decent room for the government. Economically, the budget rebalance proposal has not convinced us that it will contribute to preventing a further decline in economic activity that seems to be worrying. So it's not clear to me that everything that's planned to be filled with such a reduction in economic activity, but it should be said that preventing further declines in economic activity does not depend solely on budget rebalancing. In the proposal for an economic concept, it was necessary to achieve a synergetic effect of measures applied from different areas, to prevent further declines in economic activities, but what is also the fact that all of this creates major problems, both in real space and in the budget. For example, expenditure growth has been observed on the basis of domestic interest payments by 5.6 billion dinars, secondly, with a reduction in the country's reference rate, it would not have to do, say, auctions of paper at a rate of 16.36 dinars. What would be very likely for the citizens too, and we will be particularly divided, special members of this bill later in the subsequent reports, but we also think that the citizens of Serbia would be really interested, as regards the expenditure of the Ministry of Health, they are reduced by 3.1 billion dinars under the main program 1,804, function 760 – providing compulsory health insurance for persons without their own income. In the 2009 budget, funding in the position of 3.64 billion dinars has been projected, and these funds aim to provide health care to persons considered as insurance undertakings under Article 22(1). Health insurance laws. I'm just announcing that I'm going to use the time foreseen for the MP's group. Oh, no, I can't. Okay, then I'll proceed with the next call. It is very important to know that, among other things, this article is about children up to 15 years of age, persons over 65 years of age, people with disabilities and mentally underdeveloped persons. So I assume that mathematical logic is very justified by this budget rebalance, however, this budget rebalance directly touches the fates of people who have their names and their last names, and I am quite certain that this is a very large professional challenge for you to offer certain concrete solutions during the crisis period. But again back to that, in fact, one important thing that should concern all of us, is that we and this debate and this budget rebalance determine the lives of some people. Depending on this, some people will be able to live the life of a decent man, and a large number of people, we believe, unfortunately won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18243	Before we continue my work, I shall inform the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will be working after 6 p.m., and by discussing a point that will be on the agenda at that time, with a delayed TV broadcast during the after 1800 hours. The right to a replica and a word was sought by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the name of Professor Dejan Miljkovic has been mentioned here several times. Because of his professional and personal integrity, I must say that he is a member of the SNS, that he has never advised a representative of the SRS on this agenda, that you have no single sentence that has come out of consultation with him, that you have used his article published in "New Serbian Political Mind" on this subject, and about his personal friendship with the man who told you that you can use his name as your advisor, even though you have never met him in life, let him decide for himself. You will also be able to read an article on Monday on how he counts on a reference interest rate being dropped, and you can also use it as a story about how Professor Dejan Miljkovic is helping you. So, it really doesn't make sense, Professor Miljkovic is a respected member of the SNS and don't call on him. You have your own experts you can ask for advice from.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18245	Replication request. Please only log in to the electronic system. Here you go. National MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18246	Of course, if you've listened well to me, since it's really about a person who's an exceptional professional reputation, I've never said he's a professor. Miljkovic was an adviser to the SRS, but I said that his work has helped us greatly in this debate, as we are going into debate with a lady who is also a doctor of economic science. So, if you misunderstood, Professor Miljkovic was never a member of the SRS and I hope that was quite clear. I would especially regret if Professor Miljkovic understood something like that, but I thank all the economic independent experts who helped us in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18247	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, appear to be answering for a word, we are going to the debate, and in the order of the MPs, and according to the application for the word. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written statement, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the ZES parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group, the G17 plus parliamentary group, the DSS, the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group, the NS parliamentary group, the Parliamentary group of minorities and the PUPS parliamentary group, or all 10 parliamentary groups participating in the work of the National Assembly. I give my word to the first registered speaker, and by order according to the application for a word, in a joint review of the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. The People's MP Đuro Peric has the word, followed by the National MP Zlata Đeric. I'm just asking MP Djuru Periæ to register with the electronic system so I can give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18248	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the adoption of the 2009 budget, it could have been very difficult to achieve some of the projected and planned objectives of economic development. It was quickly seen that instead of the planned growth of the GDP of 3.5%, it must be revised. First, there was talk of a reduction to 2%, and then, as we can see, we are planning a real decline in gross social product by 2%. Also, it worries the more sensitive physical decline of production, then the decline of exports, the decline of imports, I mean imports of re-romitarians, because then it directly affects exports. Some of the MPs, when adopting the 2009 budget, felt that the global economic and financial crisis would become more and more powerful to affect the change of trends in our economy. However, some of the factors in the country did not then assess, had some other perception. I think the government saw this, perhaps not entirely, but it started working in October 2008 to alleviate the effects of the world's economic crisis and recession at that time. The government then reacted to the first set of measures to protect the financial system. In January 2009, she reacted to a second set of measures to alleviate the crisis. We are now ahead of the adoption of budget rebalancing, which would begin with the implementation of the programme of measures, which the government has envisioned a significant fiscal adjustment, primarily by reducing public spending. Significantly, the rebalancing proposal goes to savings in all segments of society, which is very good. It is extremely encouraging, according to the PUPS parliamentary group, that the government has given up its original intention to fiscally burden yourself even those categories of people who are very difficult to live. Citizens always welcome and accept those measures that first begin to apply in their own backyard, only to others. I believe there are other reserves in the government that could be used at this point. Many, however, resent the government's desire to present all problems in the state as a consequence of the global economic and financial crisis. I do not dispute that there are subjective weaknesses in the government, as well as with us in the Assembly, but I am in line with those who think that we, in general, government and others, have not seen more versatilely that all the consequences of the crisis could still come upon us. We see that the IMF changes its grades and estimates almost every other day and predicts that this year's crisis will be even more severe and difficult. The government will surely find itself in a position to propose new measures in due course, depending on the situation. I would like to welcome the presentation of Ms. Dragutinovic, who has already spoken in these preparations about how you can expect such a thing. We are now in the range of savings and various restrictions, but we need to see what can be done and must do to take additional measures to revive the economic potential, because only this can at least partially help overcome the difficult situation. In particular, I would like to touch on the problems associated with the security of the funds for the functioning of the PIO Fund. In fact, the collection of funds from the mandatory contribution is extremely worrying. The planned revenue from the contribution is reduced, so the 2009 budget rebalances only increase in revenue from the contribution to the year is 4.25% compared to 2008. As a result, budgets in the functioning of the PIO Fund are constantly increasing, while in 2007, it was 35%, it is 41%, and now it accounts for as much as 46.10%. The PUPS believes that this is the biggest problem in the functioning of the Fund, as it has started, it could soon reach up to 50%, and then expect nothing from the PIO system. That was also said by MP Popovic, which I think he saw well. I think the control of the collection of the contributions is very weak, better said very toleratedly dealing with the bonds of contributions, not paid at a large percentage the actual amount of contributions. Many are given debts, which destimulates the charge in general. A large number of private sector employees are either not paid a contribution at all or do so from time to time, so that there are gaps in the internship, which brings many employees into a very difficult situation if they want to exercise the right to retire. Currently, the debt for the PIO contribution is about 147 billion dinars. That would be enough to pay off pensions and there wouldn't be any of these problems attached to the budget, and the budget would only give part of what the state's obligations, such as miners, fighters, academics, soups, etc. Finally, I think that the draft budget rebalance, despite everything, is a reflection of our current reality and the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of its adoption, as well as other draft laws and financial plans of the PIO Fund and the Republic Health Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18249	The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, is today one of the most serious topics this parliament can even deal with. We can say that this is, in fact, the subject of which Parliament objectively exists, which is the budget. In this case, we have the first budget rebalance in 2009, because as all economic experts agree, this is not the only budget rebalance that will be needed this year. God forbid there's only two of them, but as things stand, and as the crisis kicks in, I think there'll have to be even more. What's recognised on both sides, both positions and opposition, is that there is no real budget charge, and that means that expenditures are increasing without any activity on the receiving side. It is, in fact, a euphemism that says to most of our people that we are quite collapsed. That's the situation the people are metaphorically calling "to be forced against the wall". The government acts like that, in the style of its wings that it promoted in the campaign – Europe has no alternative, now the government is in this situation that there is no alternative. That means he has to listen to orders on the side and have some remaining resources sold out into depravity. What we also agreed on is that too many loans are being taken, that the state is in debt, and that there is no other way to overcome or at least mitigate the crisis. Budget cuts are just an illusion that something's going to work out. The budget cuts will not lead to the improvement of Serbian citizens. Only a real economy can lead to that. We have increased spending here in every way and the fact is that the budget rebalance, at least by some free estimate, does not bring about to alleviate the crisis on Serbian citizens, but to justify the set of state apparatus, which we all agreed on – that it is really expensive, although it is far more expensive for the state on apparatus. We're just acting like a state that's on maintenance machines and it's only questionable where it is and whose finger is on the switch that turns those appliances on and off. I'd say this is a rebalancing task to preserve an existing party administration within all state authorities. This is a rebalancing that should preserve the power of the "charled coalition" and this is a rebalancing that has the ultimate task of silenceing parliament, because we have already found that this parliament is the best when it has a picture, and there is no tone. One of the tasks certainly comes up with parliamentaryism, because there have been a lot of unpleasant questions in this House, and then these issues have been brought down from daily to one month, and once a month, the government has found a way not to come to answer these questions, because it has shown that the issues that come directly from citizens do not care or want to answer. In fact, this way one message will be sent to the citizens of Serbia that as far as Belgrade is concerned, it is more pointless that they wish to be MPs or to be elected by citizens to be MPs in this parliament. The best and cheapest are MPs from the circle of two. In the interior, posters should be glued, votes, but not decided. That is what the ultimate goal of saving Parliament is. How else do you explain to Serbian citizens that they pay all MPs 310 million, and that only one service, say the Serbian Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja cost 363 million. Just one service in the government. Or, just to do services under contract at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development cost 200 million. Services under contract, they are those who engage occasionally, temporarily in a work contract, outside of the regular staff. Or are you regularly employed in that state apparatus so expensive and so unprofessional that other people have to be engaged or other people have to be employed in these famous jobs that are so missing, and we see that the services under contract are one of the possible significant savings in the budget, that they really have come seriously from budget savings. What is particularly affecting us and what will certainly affect Serbia, these are reduced subsidies in agriculture. Now that we've tried for several years to persuade our, proverbially wise and proverbially cautious peasants, not to go into various loans, and especially not to lick the combinations, when they're in charge of mortgage loans by buying and mechanizing, and cattle and everything else they need for their work, and without pay, but only their own assets to be pawned, we've now put them in a position to make their products and their work unscathed and that they can't pay back. We don't have the answer to that. Consider that Poland at one point had a situation to be a agricultural land and to be hungry. After that, Lech Valens was surprised. Consider that Serbia is one step away from really needing one Leh Valensa. What we are particularly interested in here is that no one could predict the size of this crisis. I'd like to hear how big that crisis was for us to imagine or predict and how real it is. Is someone going to come out and tell us that? How much is this going to reflect, so that we translate it into the language of ordinary citizens, into that famous consumer basket that we always talk about, which is getting poorer, smaller, increasingly empty, and increasingly expensive. Perhaps, only for comfort after this adoption of environmental laws, we can offer citizens that this consumer basket will not at least be plastic but will be ecological to the rails. What would be very important is to say, we see here that we have no real possibility of overcoming this crisis painlessly per capita. She's here to suffer painlessly over these difficult days of crisis by someone else. Citizens will have to pay very hard and very painfully in their lifetime. But just for the end, I'd say, Madam Minister, since it's mentioned here several times, and it's a really nice illusion that she's not Harry Potter. When it's already paid so much to various officials, with a contract of work and temporary and confidential jobs, think maybe you should hire David Copperfield, a living magician, maybe he could really help.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18251	The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, followed by the Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18252	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite clear that we are in a deep economic and financial crisis and that this budget rebalance is trying to prevent further deepening of this crisis. I hope we'll be successful in these efforts. However, the burden of the crisis needs to be distributed more adequately and it is unacceptable that just the most vulnerable are equally burdened, such as the proposal to reduce local self-government transfers in proportion to the budget per capita. According to this logic, relatively reduced funds for the Coordination Body, as was even more drastic in the rebalancing of 2008 when Presevo municipality was stripped of a total amount of 40 million dinars planned for NIP projects. All three NIP projects were from the field of electricity that should have helped the municipality's economic development. In fact, these projects are impossible to achieve this year, since the total resources for the NIP for these three municipalities are only 66 million dinars. I believe that the government has no clear concept of leaving the crisis for the most vulnerable municipalities, such as there was no real concept during the 1990s crisis, when large companies from developed communities first closed their plants in the most underdeveloped municipalities. Since then, Presevo municipality has a current catastrophic situation with a rate of over 70% unemployed. Since suspected auctions have failed, the remaining economic capacity has been reduced anyway, and in Corridor 10 and at the border crossing of the monopoly there are firms and workers from other environments so far, and neither has the Co-ordination Body formed by the government formed in 2001 been able to deal more seriously with the dramatic situation in this area. These days, when we were able to agree that the corely reformed Coordination Body is doing more seriously, to engage more actively in solving this dramatic situation, a number of problems arise both from the locals, such as those who doubt the government's readiness and interest to address the current situation in this area, but also from the central authorities come strange discriminatory decisions. I'm saying like this latest manipulative auction with the Company of Brethren, with the famous four-star hotel condition, for what, the trading company. I've already brought it up, and that's why the state is damaged, and the Presevo traders are damaged, and under suspicious circumstances, someone's got it, but I think it's a general shame. I think also in this proposal for a rebalancing, when we have a reduction in funds for the Coordination Body, as well as a reduction of the transfer funds provided for in Article 37 for the financing of local self-government, we are currently in this sensitive situation – how we continue to carry out this reform of the Coordination Body. How do you even get into solving very serious economic problems, including social and very difficult education problems, higher education, and a number of other very difficult situations? We have a chance to hear about the Co-ordination Body sometimes as if it were an eldorado, some service has 360 million dinars, and it's actually about trying to make the most underdeveloped municipalities, which have no minimum of their capacity to compete with other municipalities to survive, and that's the whole point, in this crisis, to make it impossible for the Co-ordination Body to do it successfully, to survive, so that local self-government capacities don't fail, like the economy that has already failed. There is the need to help the wider community, and I hope the international community too. Here is a matter of the central authorities to show their willingness that they are the first really interested to provide these municipalities of this country with the minimum conditions for normal life. I think there should be hearing in both the government and the Assembly that amendments improve the proposal that we have ahead of us, so that we can work together to solve a very dramatic situation. It's not about any luxury, it's not about any extra funding, because we have a situation where entities, starting with businessmen, start with entrepreneurs, are not capable of being parallel to others to use the Development Fund's resources, are not in a situation in an equal match to fight other entities from developed environments. And that's what the entire philosophy of the Coordination Body is about, by means and of course, with the help of the ministries, to work together, to successfully fight to create conditions that we work together with everyone else to overcome this crisis. There's a double crisis. I wish that if we were able to catch a step together, that with all the other municipalities and with the community, in this case the whole country, we were working equally to solve these problems, so that instead of the recession, we would have some development and come back together with other parts of Europe to be successful and successful, and to be leaders in the Balkans. I wish these municipalities were in that part and in that optimistic variant. So much, I won't be long. I expect that there will be more understanding for this than on some earlier occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18253	The word has an MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18254	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable minister, unfortunately, although we all looked forward to this debate in this assembly about the long-known Government package of measures, this debate turned into a technical explanation dictated by the government's position, primarily by the fact that the prime minister does not attend this session of parliament, although it was announced. We also expected to discuss a political vision of the government, that is, the way the government thinks it overcomes this crisis, which is essentially economical, but unfortunately passed on to all other spheres of our society. I say, unfortunately, that's one thing, and unfortunately what's immediately visible, that's another thing that's kind of clear from this first one, that's that the government had two options to address the problems that came from the crisis that we're in. One is from the position of the government itself, to which the Government has decided, and another position, which we believe was much more necessary, is from the position of the citizens of this society. That's the basic reason and difference in concept we have. Unfortunately, I don't think you're the address. Thank you for coming today and in some way taking responsibility for the effects of this package of measures we suspect, but thank you for taking responsibility and coming, but what I'm about to talk about has nothing to do with what you spoke about in the referendum. In fact, I'm going to try to get back what the president of our parliamentary group was talking about. In every crisis, the same important thing for a concrete plan is some impression that whoever tries to implement it is trying to leave. So, the question is the legitimacy, the authority of whoever is trying to achieve this plan, and that's something that the president of our party and the head of our parliamentary club were talking about, but we didn't get an answer. That's the biggest problem of this government. No one believes in these measures, not even the heads of the parliamentary groups who make up the majority. No one believes in the results of these measures, not in this room, not outside of it. They're not enough, they're late, they're based on parameters that are already overcome at the moment. I'm talking about the opinion of even the ruling majority MPs. What we think, if it is already, and you're going to let me agree with you in at least two things, one is said, it's that there is a crisis and the other is unsaid, and that's that the state is going towards ambition. It's unspeakable, but it's clear from the way you talked about statistics, comparing this year to the last one or several previous ones. Let me say, if this crisis is so deep, then these measures or the solution that the government is offering can't only come to light on this solution that you've offered us here today. So, if this crisis is deep, and we say it is, where is this reorganisation of society management that is essential. Even several MPs mentioned the ruling coalition, including most in the government. It's mocked like a concept that might not be so important. Let me tell you it's important. One religion ministry on budget rebalancing will cost the citizens of our country 748 million dinars. It's only a million dinars less than the entire Serbian Parliament in a year. What is this ministry for during the crisis? If we agreed that today's situation is drastically different than a year ago, why did the ruling majority, or the Serbian government, not take that step that is most needed and most responsible, first reform itself and thus show that it will be sufficiently effectively directed, focused on solving the problem that the crisis is bringing. That's what's missing here. That's why we said it was very important today for the prime minister to come to this session and show that the government is also thinking that way. Unfortunately, it confirmed that the government was at the same time taking care of the crisis, which we do not dispute, as soon as we discuss the package of measures, but more or the same took care of how to preserve itself, how to keep those positions within the government, how not to break down one coalition that was made when there was no sign of the crisis in May last year. You'll only allow one more topic very short. The second thing we resent most is the lack of incentive measures, any kind of thing. I don't see them. When it comes to economics in this House, it is clear from the exposure of people to talk only about large companies, such as some state-owned companies or large public enterprises, but there is no word about what is involved in the development of each country in transition. It's small and medium-sized enterprises. These are facts that we haven't heard from the minister today, but can be seen every day in the media, how much these small and medium-sized enterprises are less than the beginning of this year, how few there are today than last week. These are enterprises that will bring new jobs. It's a new term used, or preserved by some old, but also by these measures, on the one hand, and by not giving any answers to these people's problems, entrepreneurs, they're pushed into a gray zone, where they're used to working throughout the 1990s, if they could do something. Why isn't there a famous solution to the problems they all have today? It's a charge of value added tax in advance. Why is he drilling like that? So they're all forced to credit the state with their business. It doesn't run out of consequences. That means that those who can't handle it, and that's what most of them are, they're shutting down, they're even wiped out of the register. Where the exemption or removal of part of the liability to tax or tax liability and the contributions they pay to employees, none of them today recognises what reality is, and that is how many workers they have and how much wages they pay, what wages they pay. These measures are not covered. They can't get credit anymore because they're expensive. They're not paid by their trustees. They credit the state through value added tax and high tax-based taxes and contributions, and it is normal to disappear. There's no such thing in this package. There's not even a debate about it. That's why I said that these measures are short-term and they may give some result in the days to come, but already in a month or two or three, this country will be in a much worse situation than it is today, and not just because of the global economic crisis, but in one good part and because of these measures, which on the one hand they're just taking, and on the other hand they don't give anything to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18255	The LDP parliamentary group is available for seven minutes and 30 seconds. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18256	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected ministers and government representatives, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as already said among other things, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the draft budget rebalancing and all accompanying laws, as well as adopted measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The draft budget rebalance, with the following fiscal laws and an emergency review, is in fact an end to the fire caused by the global economic crisis and represents a set of the most significant programme measures brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia in early April 2009. Several basic characteristics of the government of the Republic of Serbia's measures should be said, firstly, that they are necessary, that they are extorted, partial, are not systemic, but represent reality, a realistic response to problems, both economic and social. We believe that such a concrete proposal can mitigate the consequences of the crisis. This proposal is understandable, it is not an economic or political declaration, it has calculated and targeted practical results. What exactly are the good sides? Public spending is reducing, trying to rationalise the state administration, there are certain measures to stimulate economic activity, then measures to preserve as many jobs as possible, but also measures to move towards new employment, in particular 10,000 young trainees. The proposal will certainly mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis, but what is essential is that the government of the Republic of Serbia must come out as soon as possible with a comprehensive systemic response to the obvious problems. The budget rebalancing is only now the right picture, I would say, of the current state of the Serbian economy. The drastic decline in inflows in the government's cash register at almost all sources has compromised the established basic budgetary objectives and principles in managing public finances, especially in budget implementation. The global economic crisis deeply leaves a mark in the domestic economy, the decline in industrial production, exports, imports, internal trade, which has been reflected in the slowdown in real growth in the beginning of the year, i.e. the decrease in purchasing power due to the high monthly rate of inflation growth, resulting in an increase in regulated prices and excise duties in the country's jurisdiction. These indicators, with concrete indicators mentioned among other reasons, have contributed to the government's change in the course of market economic policy from monetary to fiscal areas seen in the reduction of public consumption. Therefore, the conclusion is that Serbia's economy and finances in 2009 will be under the unfavourable influence of the global financial and economic crisis, but the question is, is this the end? Whether the effects of the global crisis have also calculated some of the wrong moves of previous governments from previous times, or whether it will only hit us because of, above all, the destroyed domestic banking system, and in 2008 alone, the banks have shown a profit of 32.3 billion dinars. Then, poor privatisations financed by consumption, and privatisation companies did not launch a new investment cycle, production and employment, which reflected both budget revenues and social contributions. What are the debts in the budget based on privatised enterprises that have been destroyed and gone into a difficult situation and are they leaving the phase of liberal capitalism and transitioning to state socialism? Out of the balance of total and external debt with new borrowings that we don't talk about, that's all it seems to me, 20 pages of the budget, and we also don't talk about the changes, because we're going to be asked by someone -- who's in charge and what time period? Just the fact that 30.4 billion dinars are planned in the budget to pay interest on domestic and foreign loans, and subsidies to the economy are 34 billion, says quite enough. Easily giving up 23 billion dinars of income due to the unilateral application of the agreement with the EU and these 30.4 billion interest payments represent half of the planned rebalancing cuts, and the burden will bear, as already said, state officials, some ministries and local self-government. It came from a state that's starting to save, and that's the first positive feature. Another positive feature is that the revenue side of the budget should be filled in by richer layers of the population, which is why we also support amendments to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, which increases the luxury tax, and refers to the tax on the use of motor vehicles, aircraft, vessels and mobile phones. Our pledge is, in fact, that the tax should be paid to the relative strength of the taxpayers and should, of course, continue with further harmonisation. There is also an inevitable additional burden on tobacco users and drivers as on-call taxpayers, I would say, for clogging budget gaps. I would also like to take a brief look at the changes in the Republic Fund's financial plan for PIO. The reduction in income based on contributions by 24.4 billion dinars is due directly to the reduction in earnings and the number of workers receiving them during the first quarter of 2009. The government's efforts and measures on incentives in the economy do not give fiscal effects in the government's register, and something just isn't right. In the annual plan, the original revenues account for only 51.4% of the Fund's total income, and we continue to lead a policy of burden on new pensioners, not on the income side. It is particularly important that the law on freezing earnings in the state administration and the public sector, which we also support, but we believe that it should have been brought before, above all, for the following reasons. Since the beginning of the year and the crisis, the state has shown one intention of saving, reducing budget expenditure, and thus giving a positive example to others. Then, salaries in the public sector would be in line with that law and government and, as such, would be controlled through the granting of consent to the programmes of these companies, agencies and companies. This measure will not take effect until mid-year, as it applies to salaries for May. Of course, we support the amount of 40,000 dinars as the lowest basis for taxation and consider it unnecessary all previous bids that have left one extremely negative echo and public impression. We believe that there is a need to specify the period used as average earnings in Serbia. Also, we believe that there is a need to equalise the basics for the payout of earnings, that this is the same period, not the earnings of employees in January and February, and for compensation to members of the managing body last October. It should be noted that earnings are much less than in October in January, and local public companies make profits in January at the same level as in 2008. At first, I pointed out, we support, of course, this law and good intentions and we really want to believe that the funds will only be used under a special act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18257	There is the word of the Messenger of the people Milos Aligrudić, and after him the Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18258	I think it's time to tell the truth in this house about what's on the agenda today and what's happening to us. For days, the ruling coalition has been deluding the public that today, on the agenda of the National Assembly, there will be some sort of package of measures to combat recession, which we have heard from individual members of the ruling coalition today when they talked about budget rebalancing and a package of accompanying laws. The first and basic truth is that the government of the Republic of Serbia today is nothing but the mere administration of Boris Tadic. The mere administration of Boris Tadic is trying, as I said, to deceive the citizens by saying -- that the budget, that the Budget Law, was a budget rebalance or budget, is the same as following the laws, that they are in themselves a state reaction and some kind of measure against the recession we are in. That, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to be honest with yourself, is false and impossible. What's the budget? I'm saying this more for the citizens, and this famous rebalancing, because I don't know how much everyone understands what that means? The rebalancing is the same as the budget, and the budget sets out how much the state administration, most widely, can spend money that the previous state has sown through taxes and taxes from taxpayers. The state spends the money in the general interest – to meet the basic needs of the state apparatus and those of public spending that has to do with the state and the functioning of the state itself and the substrate of the state. That's what the subject of today's discussion is. It has nothing to do with the standard of citizens, nothing to do with the position of the economy, nothing to do with training the economy to stand on its feet and make it possible to increase employees - as you lied, so it happens quite the opposite. It has nothing to do with raising your pensions, which you lied about, so it happens quite the opposite. It has nothing to do with the allocation of a thousand-euro stock package to public enterprises, because it has nothing to do with what you lied about, and it happens the other way around. If only there was a problem with this. The problem is that the administration of Boris Tadic, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, is trying to deceive citizens as trying to make some kind of effort to prevent the impact of the global recession or the global financial crisis on economic flows in Serbia. No measure has been taken to this day, and what we have proposed to you has been ignored from political vanity. Not only from political vanity, it has been ignored so far that what has been proposed on our side and because the government, i.e. the collected administration of Boris Tadic from various sides, is not capable of forming a comprehensive programme, because it is capable of forming a comprehensive programme, then Mirko Cvetkovic, for you, would be here, not only defending budget rebalancing and accompanying laws, but would defend the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking against recession in Serbia. And he can't defend them because there's no such thing. Just as it wasn't until last week's cabinet session, where there was one point dedicated to the IMF agreement and the loan, which you talked about and waved at it and those billions of euros for weeks. There was no session, there was no agenda, so we went out yesterday because we have nothing to ask you. It's your policy. That's how you think you run the country. Yes, that the state is our political front. But the state is the state of these citizens trying to live in it, doing something to make them a decent living. You haven't thought about it for a moment, you don't think about it now. What does budget rebalance have to do with what are the essential issues? Where are your measures that will enable the economy to react? Do you think about what will happen when public spending is reduced, which is fine, because tightening the belt is the measure we propose, simply because there's no money, because if you don't have money, you can't even spend, which makes sense? What happens when another type of consumption falls, not public spending, when you have no measure that stimulates the consumption of citizens? How is someone going to be stimulated to produce and to put anything on the market if everything is collapsed? Do you have an answer to these questions – of course you do not? Of course, since you have no answer to these questions, and you only have one question to answer, how can the administration of Boris Tadic support an unplanned budget deficit, because if you were able to plan it, you wouldn't go out after 2.5 or 3 months with budget rebalancing. How in three months are you going to back-up the holes of an unplanned budget deficit, because you can't predict what's going to happen next month, which you've proven so far? Is that the kind of government that citizens should trust? Should such a government, such a administration by Boris Tadic, be trusted to live better? I don't believe you, my friends, neighbors and relatives don't trust you. You don't believe people you can meet on the street, and you need to remember who they can trust and who was able to make at least a compact government, which can maintain minimal stability, if not produce something called economic growth. It's ladies and gentlemen from the ruling coalition, from Boris's administration, your key problem. But that it is yours, not by misery, but the problem of the citizens of Serbia. This is what you are facing today and what Serbian citizens are facing. It will be very difficult for you to get out of this unless you do something – so far you have done nothing. That's what your work result is. That's what your job looks like, and that's what today's session looks like. I'd say one more sentence. The law packages you proposed with the budget rebalance, which is nothing more than a confession that you miscalculated four months ago. It's very simple -- you're doing rebalancing, nothing's going to work, and now it's going to be okay. Now these law packages only do two things. The first thing this package of laws does, it's to prevent additional public spending, so there's a denial of the possibility of spending on individual segments, which I'm saying is not a very scary thing. On the other hand, the second package of laws in the meeting is trying to take more funds off the back of citizens, more money -- to cover the unplanned budget deficit. Serbian citizens need to know what you are doing here today, not to listen to stories about how you are proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today a package of measures to get out of the crisis and against recession – it is simply not true and it would be fair to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18259	The word has been given by MP Vlajko Senic, followed by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18260	Dear Mrs Dragutinovic, dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, when I talk about rebalancing, I would first of all refer to the aspect of budget financing. I think it's a little bit said about that in this debate. I would also say something about the reforms that have to follow this budget rebalance, I would say about some solidarity within the government that should exist, if these measures are necessary and we all want to produce results together and some policy that the government has to lead, which must exist, regardless of what the economic crisis is. The deficit is 90 billion dinars. When you look at the draft budget, you see that it's actually 70 billion dinars, but citizens work, we have to say it's a consolidated deficit. So that 90 billion dinars enters the deficit -- the central deficit of the state, the deficit of municipalities, local self-government, the Public Enterprise Roads, i.e. the deficit of municipalities and cities, as I said. Therefore, regardless of the economic operators at the lower level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is those who are potentially in debt, for example the Public Enterprise Putevi – the state guaranteeing that this debt will be recovered and therefore constitute a public debt. When we look at it as a whole, the total funding of deficits and public debt is about 218 billion dinars, and of which is the total repayment of the principal of 147 billion 924 million dinars. So that difference between 218 and 147 is actually that net funding of 70 billion dinars, based on which we are covering, let me say, the budget deficit shown in this budget rebalance. Citizens need to know that part of the 147 billion dinars is divided by about 131 billion dinars, foreign 13 billion dinars, and that about 4 billion dinars have reached guarantees to foreign creditors. And in fact, we have in this budget proposal a total increase in funding compared to the 2009 budget proposal of 125 billion dinars, which is approximately at the main payoff level to domestic lenders. We see that the reason for the law lists the amount of 120 billion dinars as the main payment for domestic securities of value. We can indirectly conclude that, given that one part of this amount, about 30 billion, refers to already issued securities of value, that there are 90 billion dinars left and that it corresponds to this consolidated deficit, which is at the level of 3% of the social product, and that represents approximately the amount of repos tocode of NB somewhere in mid-April 2009. Since we expect that the second half of the year will bring about a decline in demand and that the deflation that exists in the international environment will make it easier to maintain the inflation target level, we assume that in some subsequent period the NBS will allow lower interest rates to shift these funds that exist in a repos flow to state records from value. This is a transparent financing of the current situation caused by current macroeconomic developments. It is something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia reacts to and it is a perfectly normal thing, given that projections of economic movements in the world change every day, but if we look at IMF forecasts every month, we are unfortunately getting worse and worse projections. I would say that there are no charges that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not know what it is doing, if we look at it globally, then it does not know what the IMF is doing, neither the SB nor the US government, nor the governments of the leading EU countries, or all of those governments together, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are doing as they impose the current circumstances. This is the biggest economic crisis that exists after a major depression, and it is perfectly normal that you have to adapt your economic policy daily. What could be a good thing in all of this is that this may be an opportunity for reforms that are not, and that should be said openly, done in the past 8 or 9 years, the economic conjuncture has been much better and has made it easier to live. The more comfortable the state lived, the more comfortable the family lived, the more comfortable all the citizens lived individually, because the economy grew and now unfortunately came one moment when this bill and this drawing suddenly, and I would say, it is unexpectedly undermining, and everyone, from every man to the state, we adapt to all of that. In order for such things not to happen in the future, I think it is important that we all think together about reforming the public sector, but not just about reforming the public sector, this forced sector that we had to do, because we couldn't survive as a state, but about the strategic reform of the public sector, adapting the public sector to the size of our economy, the size of our country. To think about how we can reduce the deficit between exports and imports, because the arrangement that we're going to sign with the IMF allows us to keep that external liquidity for the next year or two days, but that's not the model of the economy that we can use indefinitely in the next period. The revenues from privatisation will be reduced. We don't even know now what the credit market will be like after the global economic crisis. Serbia must reduce its public sector to the projection of our future economy, and this implies, first of all, a reduction of expenditure to different public funds, a restructuring of these funds and what some opposition MPs have cited, but this is nothing new, the fact that 40% of pensions are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget today, and we need to know that this is not something that has been happening in the past few years. We need to know that the pension fund has been destroyed for decades, that at the end of 2000, pensions and other benefits have never existed. Practically, we are just returning on this trip, and it is important that the reforms that follow us focus on not having to put out the fire in the future, but that we can normally project our economy. The third thing that is important is the solidarity of the government, which is one message that means that through this crisis Serbia with this government can only go through if the government functions as a whole. The crisis cannot be overcome by the government acting as a political coalition of parties in which each party will see as little damage as possible. Because it's normal when there's a crisis, when people are unhappy that the parties in power are suffering ratings, they suffer popularity and some other things. In that sense, redistribution of responsibility and patience, if I may say so, normally must be at least a proportional participation in the government. It is difficult to survive a mechanism if some are in charge only of popular moves and some of them for unpopular moves, because this is the year that will decide and allow the crisis to be overcome and to fulfill the promises that led citizens to vote for the 2008 ZES coalition. In the end, I want to say that the Serbian government, regardless of the severe economic crisis, must lead a policy that has led citizens to vote again for the ZES coalition, which is a policy of joining the EU, is a policy that implies active participation in the Partnership for Peace. It is a policy that can only move faster towards these objectives, and certainly the economic crisis must not, and it will not and should not be used to revise such a policy. That's why I want to welcome, for example, the fact that the government has made certain decisions in that direction. I mean, it's a good thing yesterday the foreign minister was in the U.S., regardless of some minor criticism, whether or not he met with the conversants at the appropriate level. I think Serbia's future, regardless of this crisis, must not be clouded and it is in partnership with the EU, it is in good relations with the United States, it is in co-operation with China and Russia. But first of all, if you look at the economy and the structure of our country, you will see what our partners are without which Serbia has not survived for the past 8 years and cannot survive in the next 10 or 15 years. It is an element of the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy that must remain in place, regardless of the economic crisis, because it is guaranteed that we will leave the perspective that when the crisis passes, investments from those parts of the world continue where they came most from after 2000, and you will also see with the proposal of some amendments that such investments have also come from China, Russia, but mostly from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18261	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18262	The question arises where to start the story of this rebalancing, and if we were to manage what happened today in this congregation and the way some do, the story could start from the middle, not the occasion and not the cause. When one of us today asked 50 to determine whether there were 126 votes – for when two of us said 50 – do not count the quorum, but 126 – for, because we asked for it, the problem turned out whether they had humanity, heroism, whether they were brought up, whether they were worth being punished. It's not true if you're talking from the middle. The story has to start from the beginning so we can all learn from it. The story of this rebalancing cannot go from a figure of 720 billion dinars, or a deficit of budget, fiscal, payment-balance, and the figures are amazing – 70, 90, this payment-balance deficit can't even be mentioned. The beginning of the budget story is the beginning of a story about a country that has started to behave erraticly, forgetting that many of the sources on which it is comfortable behavior are based are one-time and exhaustive. If the budget has been since 2002, because I'm taking it as a base, because in 2001, I welcome the gesture, you've united all the accounts to have a look at all the public finances flows. That got out of hand after. I know, Mrs Dragutinovic, countless agencies and regulatory bodies again have their accounts through indirect and direct understandings of budget users of these and those, but I can take the comparison that the 2002 budget, recalculated in euro, took a course on the day of budget adoption, rose from 3 billion in 2002 to 8 billion in 2008. In 2003, it increased to 3.5 billion, to 4.8 billion euros in 2004, to 5 billion in 2006, to 5.7 billion in 2007, to 7.4 billion euros and reached that largest figure in 2008. The conclusion obvious, without much analysis, is that at the time of abundant privatisation revenues and during the election, the budget was becoming large. You and I and all economists know that once an established way of spending public income, once a tax is introduced, it is difficult for all those benefiting from it. The budget that has grown disproportionately growing social product, disproportionately growing regular incomes, is simply unsustainable today. And if it wasn't for the crisis, he would be unsustainable. If we had employees in 2003 of two million and if that number stands today, did we have that productivity growth that led to this growth in the budget last year to 8 billion? Can we justify ourselves to anyone by means of a methodology to show some income below the line, some above the line, or should we say – the circumstances have changed, so we are now a failed planner? That's not the point. The thing is that we, knowingly cherishing the illusion of the inflows that would last, and we knew that they were exhausting, were privatization, first of all, of the donations that were little and small, dimensioned public spending in such a way that no wealthy state could bear. I'm not going to fall into a trap to repeat the numbers and data my colleagues spoke of, because I don't agree to speak on a given subject, I'm going to talk about the causes. I want to talk about the need for my fellow economists to first and foremost speak of the ruling parties as savings, solidarity, to understand that the story of saving and solidarity cannot begin without talking about laws that will start to reduce excessive budget spending. Translated into the language of the citizens, that means that not everyone on the budget accounts can be on the table, but you can't start by threatening to fire the workers, and at the same time, when we talk about budget rebalancing, you have appointing members of the board of directors of the fund we vote on as a fund that we abolish. I can't understand that you're in the inn, I know that the reputation of a single piece of the ruling coalition isn't like that, but it's not insignificant to him, that they're insinuating their reputation in the way that in the Official Messenger, who reads all serious people, we find the news that in the story and the threat of firing you name the members of the trust's board of directors who are shutting down, the SMECA Fund. Two members of the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy have been appointed, and, Reverend, I must confess, Mr. Krkobic Milan resigns, aware that this fund is being shut down. Can I, any citizen, believe in the government's honorable intention of really saving, when all the measures that are being taken are so selfishly defined that they are only aimed at performing savings that are not really there? Only in the formulation of 26% of some savings in discretionary rights says that we, I against the opposition, have many approved the government to build a house from the roof last year, unsuitable to the foundations and power of the economy. You and I, Mrs Dragutinović, certainly know that the budgetary state, as it is, is not our invention, that it is a modern invention in which from America to our country, every government behaves as the owner of everything produced in one country, and that, by its will, or will, the government that runs the state, leaves to the taxpayers what it thinks belongs to them. Is anyone even leading the calculations on the sustainability of this economy or can I define this budget as a story of a frog carrying a scorpion across the water? The frog is a business, the scorpion is a government and the frog says - don't stab me while I carry you, we'll drown both. Scorpio promises not to do it, but in the middle of the river, which is this crisis, the scorpion makes a death blow to the frogs, and tells her in the death slave frogs – why do you do it to me, and she says – but it's my nature. Is it really the nature of the government to destroy the economy on whose shoulders there is, by strangling both the economy and itself with this kind of tax burden? I really believe that to design a budget in which, apart from any economic logic, they set the limits of income, and then determine consumption. You do the opposite, determine what the demands of the ministries and all those who are attached to it, and then determine where to place such funds. Such a reverse order of things could exist at a time when there were, say 17 billion euros in privatisation. As an MP, I can say -- they say, because you, neither I nor the National Bank, who would have to have foreign exchange inflows, have any of you from the Ministry of Finance, because the Privatisation Agency took what it takes, paid for consultants and everything else she needed, and only gave you what's left. I hear it today, there's no such thing. How do you think we can continue to exist if you don't want to talk about how the economy can't handle the advance funding? In November, we discussed this, not to spread the tax base and to reduce the base for taxation. You know perfectly well that pay tax will have the exact same inflow. You know it's too much of a gray economy for you and that by increasing tax revenues, you leave room for them to go to that gray economy, your colleagues have talked about it. I get the impression that you're literally doing your damage, but I wouldn't worry about that. I'm worried that you don't realize that this frog, whose back this government is sucking everything out, is both business, and citizens and the whole state. Mrs Dragutinović, I am really surprised that you have allowed Article 8, which treats the possibility of the existence of a budget reserve, in which it can be placed and placed all and which can be used for all, have you allowed it to remain and exist in this form? You were very constructive at the time when we passed the budget, you took a lot of useful advice. I'm simply under the impression that you, as a prominent economist, have failed to cope with those who do not experience one body, because as long as the authorities of the government, the ministries, see each other as competition and grab only for their consumption, so far neither is the government a unique organism, nor can this state last with such excessive public spending. This budget isn't just 720 billion. It amounts to 800 billion dinars, because what's shown to be spent, and your own revenue from budget users, and everything you collect from planned revenues and everything that remains as a real debt that someone will have to pay back, is actually the budget size. This is only part of the reason that I presented, and because of which SNS and the Prosperity Club, Serbia cannot vote, it wonders why you came out with such a proposal. The only excuse is that it's an IMF warrant, whose jaws you're in as a man has fallen into a green man's jaw, not asking whether or not it costs and thinking it's the best solution, and I'm convinced that the International Monetary Fund's funds are not the cheapest, nor the best, and that's too much for a credit rating, because credit can't live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18263	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has the People's MP Branka Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18264	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, distinguished members of the Government, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the 2009 Budget Law and following laws that will contribute to the effects of the economic crisis as much as possible. Since the economic crisis has also slowly affected Serbia, by adopting these accompanying laws and measures proposed by the government, which relate to the budget, I believe that the economic conditions for the lives of citizens and for the growth of the economy will be partly mitigated. The effects expected on the revenue side are 30 billion dinars, on the divisive side of as many as 65 billion dinars. The incomes expected will be collected through amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens, where it is proposed to increase the tax base on all forms of income, primarily income from capital and copyright and some others, then by increasing the excise duty on oil derivatives, on gas two dinars per litre and on diesel fuel four dinars per litre. By introducing an impulse excise on mobile phones of 10%, increasing taxes on registration of motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. For the first time, it envisions a different distribution of its own revenues by budget users, so that they retain 60% and the remainder of 40% of the payments to the Republic. For the first time, I must also point out that the transfer of dividends to public enterprises is being introduced as a measure and an increase in the revenue foreign budget. On the side of the expenditure, the effect of these measures foresees significant savings which, as I said earlier, are 65 billion dinars. Ensuring these effects will be achieved by freezing and reducing the salaries of budget users on the basis of restrictions in employment and in the state administration. The largest savings will be in the case of discretionary expenditure, i.e. expenditure on the purchase of goods and services per contract or other current costs, i.e. the costs incurred at the aproposation of 42, 45, 48, on the fifth 62, whose reduction could at least jeopardise the functioning of the state authorities. This is where 40 billion dinar savings are expected. On the spending side, transfers to local self-government will be reduced by 15 billion dinars. This may seem to be an unpopular measure, however, it is believed that savings will also be made in local self-government and that this reduction will not go linearly. Therefore, transfers towards local self-government will not go linearly, but will take into account the development of local self-government. The budget rebalancing, in changing and difficult market conditions, is used as an instrument to combat recession, primarily by reducing the costs of the state administration, social responsibility, to protect citizens' standards, fostering economic activity and employment, supporting public works and capital and infrastructure projects. This time, the government came from the fact that the bulk of the recession burden should bear itself and thus bring a number of austerity measures. This shows she's responsible. For a reminder, in October 2008, the government reacted with the first set of measures, together with the NBS, to protect the financial system. Then, in late January 2009, she reacted to a set of measures to protect the real sector. The increasing decline in production and change in the consumption structure also resulted in the shift of market economic policy from monetary to fiscal, primarily through the reduction of public consumption and savings among all budgetary users. As a result of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia, there have also been difficulties in preparing and implementing the budget, which has created the need to amend and supplement this budget. The ZES parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18265	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18266	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, gentlemen of the government, it is very important that we explain to this debate on the budget of the people in Serbia in a more acceptable way the state of our country and what a future awaits us all together. With that in mind, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would like to ask you if we will be on the broadcast at all times or if the transfer stops at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18267	By 6:00 we're on a transmission, and we'll be working, of course, and after that, it'll be through a delayed transmission. Here you go. Mrs. Ragush, I'm sorry, there's a possibility we'll even be in transmission by 19.00 hours, but I'll let you know exactly which moment we're no longer in direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18268	But now you're all talking in my time. I'm kidding, of course. Apology accepted. What is totally unacceptable is that in the course of such significant and important discussions we are limited by transmission. We think it's really of public interest that everyone in real time has a chance to hear what this is about, what are the arguments of position and opposition. Of course we'll be working after the transmission's stopped, but last night the delayed transmission was after midnight. You will admit, since Serbian citizens are working two or more jobs trying to survive, it is a completely unacceptable time to find out anything about this. So I ask you to influence how much it is in your power to transmit that transmission when the budget rebalancing debate is in real time, so all this is going to be heard here. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. Let's get this back to a very important topic. During the first presentation, as an authorised representative, I called for the contribution and work of experts from the economic field, firstly by independent economic expert Professor Dejan Miljkovic. What is also very significant, and this independent economic expert points out, is actually referring to a package of measures for the IMF. We have been here, Mrs Dragutinovic, for days, if not more than a month and a half, talking about an arrangement with the IMF, as an international financial institution, with a special reference to the part relating to the conditions of this international financial institution, but also to the position of our political beliefs. So, we are political insinuators, we will never meet because for you Europe has no alternative, and for us Serbia has no alternative. You are on your way to the European Union, and we are on our way to the Eastern market, but this does not mean that we cannot be justified in talking about overcoming the effects of the global financial crisis. What should also be clear to the citizens of Serbia again is that, I think, with this budget rebalance that we will adapt the language of average people who are not economists, and should not be experts on this topic, because the only thing that matters is what their life will look like, and so should life for all of us. It is very important to say, what the SRS considers to be an arrangement with the IMF in this situation and with conditions, let's say, that the budget deficit is less than 3% of GDP for us is a completely unacceptable condition. If we compare, you will, of course, correct if I have a fact that is not accurate, but if we compare the world and European economies that have been given a deadline to reduce the budget deficit to 3% of GDP by 2012 and 2013, it is completely incomprehensible why Serbia is expected to see it within a shorter period. This further means that the executive authority is bound by hands and the executive authority is forced to perform terrible and radical cuts. I stopped because time limited me as an authorised representative, but what I found frantic and extremely worrying was this particular division relating to the Ministry of Health, where positions were reduced by 3.1 billion dinars under the main programme, function 760. To make it clearer for citizens, to provide compulsory health insurance for people without their own income. In the 2009 budget, funding for this 3.64 billion dinar position has been designed and these funds aim to provide health care to persons considered as insurance undertakings under Article 22(1). Health insurance laws. I have said this again, I hope not by taking away all of your concentration and patience, but citizens need to be clear which faces such a significant reduction is involved. So we're talking about children until the age of 15, school children and students until the end of the prescribed schooling, no later than 26. Then there are women involved in family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood, up to 12 months after birth. This applies to persons over 65 years of age, persons with disabilities and mentally underdeveloped persons, to persons in connection with treatment of HIV infection or other infectious diseases identified by a special law governing the area of protection of the population from infectious diseases, malignant, haemophilia, diabetes, psychosis, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, individuals in the terminal phase of chronic renal insufficiency, cystic fibrosis, systemic autoimmune diseases, rheumatotic fever, addiction diseases, or injuries to individuals in connection with the provision of emergency medical care, as well as persons covered by medical protection in relation to the administration and administration of tissues and organs. Also, this drastic reduction refers to monks and nuns, materially unsecured persons receiving material security under social protection regulations, i.e. rules on the protection of fighters, military people with disabilities and civilian disabilities. This drastic downsizing also applies to users of permanent cash assistance, as well as to assistance for housing in social protection institutions or other families, according to social protection regulations. It also refers to unemployed persons and other categories of socially endangered persons whose monthly income below income is determined in accordance with this law. Then, help users, members of a family whose foster home is on military service. And finally, the faces of Roma nationality, which, due to traditional lifestyle, do not have a permanent residence, or residence in the Republic. It's really very difficult for me to talk about the logical value of budget rebalancing, about the fantastic mathematical harmonisation of the amount. I can only talk about who gets the most of these budget rebalances. Honestly, I don't see how in particular these categories of persons that I've counted will be able to survive one month, and they're not in a position to provide their own income. So that's what we've been trying all along to distract the public, to ring the alarm, precisely because the population in Serbia, the population in Serbia, is slowly but surely becoming the most vulnerable category of the population. We do not understand how the Serbian Government, of course, will, in this context you are not the responsible address that should give all answers to questions, because this is a reflection of the political will of the ruling majority and the conditions that international financial institutions have put before you, but I would really like to see what it will look like in the middle of this year, not you personally but the executive authorities, to the citizens of Serbia. Also, what Serbian citizens also need to know, and it is very clear and precise to tell them, to be able to manage, because there is no help, to survive one month, is that the package of measures for the IMF, which we have discussed, and according to a respected independent economic expert, in the IMF report on the approval of financial resources to Serbia, on 16 January 2009, has been found to be expected to be the real government of a 3.5% gross domestic product in 2009. Sixty-nine days later, on 26 March, at a press conference on an informal agreement on a new arrangement between the IMF and the Serbian government, an official representative of the financial institution said it would almost certainly see Serbia fall in 2009 of two percent. So, it should just be emphasized, perhaps not necessary, but the public does, that this failure, which we still think is inadmissible when it comes to such a financial institution, is 5.5 percentage points and that we, based on poor estimates, have formulated and implemented our economic policy. Now here we come, very likely, to the field of political will, because I cannot accept that those who are educated and acquired really significant titles have very strong and heavy, in the most positive sense, biography, that they could sign this package of economic measures, and accept the conditions imposed by the IMF without saying anything against it. What is also surprising is that all those who signed monetary, credit and economic policies in Serbia could not in time make at least an approximate assessment of what could happen in 2009. It seems that we haven't even received official information on how long this crisis can last, at least in three to five years. But let's get back to concrete data. What we could possibly assume, is that these projected tax revenues will be realised, related to customs and VAT on import products, which means that we add about 40 billion dinars to total annual tax revenues. Our real gross domestic product, with a projected inflation rate of about 10%, is already at an annual level of minus 5%. When it comes to the package of measures envisioned for the IMF, my colleague, Mr Dejan Mirovic, is constantly and continuously engaged in international financial institutions, trying to criticise the path of approaching the EU, our political belief is that the guidelines have completely devastated Serbia's economy and it seems to me that we do not have an economically recovered state, you will admit. It is not even the idea that we will look five to ten years from now in terms of EU standards, how much will it cost us to approach only EU candidate status, given that we are daily witnessing how much we lag behind the standards of highly developed European countries. Of course, on this occasion, I will not repeat what I have been saying all these days, and it was about the analysis of Mr Dejan Mirovic, who is finally relying, in the first place, on this particular dilemma that emerged after this professional analysis, which concerns the reduction of the deficit compared to the gross domestic product. What this independent economic expert Dr Miljkovic says, what we have so far is official information from the press conference, held on 26 March, when the IMF mission chief found that the budget revenues projected are not at the planned level, so the budget creates a gap, and due to the drying of foreign capital sources, a large external financing gap opens up. So this same gentleman finds that a large package of fiscal adjustment measures is necessary to limit the budget deficit to 3%, which is the maximum level that can be financed from non-inflator sources. What should be interesting, and we have talked to people who are moving in the most diverse circles of the economy and beyond, they are considering this situation by trying to make some more precise analysis, what is not completely clear in the Serbian public is what this package of measures contains which is the condition of the IMF's financial resources. First, an increase in budget deficits to 90 billion dinars, which does not mean an increase in expenditure in the budget, on the contrary, the increase in deficits is due to a reduction in tax revenues, and therefore, as a second measure, an additional reduction in expenditure in the budget is necessary for around 67 billion dinars. Of course, this wasn't enough either, so the third measure refers to an increase in revenues of around 34 billion, through an increase in the untaxable base to 12,000 dinars and an increase in the tax rate by 6% to the level of 18% of all salaries, pensions, copyright and other fees. So, chronologically, if we follow, one of the latest findings was at the mentioned conference for the stick, which is not a measure but is a real hit, it is the announcement by Governor Jelasic that on March 27th in Vienna, with the support of the IMF, he will talk to representatives of foreign business banks' homes not to extract capital from Serbia. In the meantime, just to remind you, that's exactly what happened. Speaking of this, measures for the IMF, projection of the 90 billion budget deficit is not just a mere sum. It is information that, when projections of budget income and expenditure, we have accepted the conclusion that we will have a decline in the real gross domestic product of minus 2%, with an inflation of about 10% on the annual level. The second measure, I think, is very important for the citizens of Serbia, is quite large, and it concerns multiple positions, but budget savings have been found in the following positions, such as the freezing of salaries and pensions, saving about 13 billion dinars, reducing transfers to local self-government, saving about 15 billion dinars, reducing the cost of the Health Fund, saving about four billion dinars, reducing 40% of the costs of budget users who make their own incomes, saving about 12 billion dinars, reducing expenditure on goods and services, which means banning new employment and abolishing representation, official travel and so on, which would save about 18 billion dinars. With all these savings, budget expenditures are reduced to a level ranging from 680 to 690 billion dinars. To move from these measures to the IMF for a moment, and to try as clearly as possible to reflect the current situation and to create a perspective, at least in the first five months of this year, what is important here is to say that these savings provided by the IMF, in the first place only to meet certain financial amounts and yet the fact that our deficit should be less than 3% of GDP, in order for us to achieve the possibility of withdrawing the funds of other financial institutions and banks, and firstly to settle to the greatest extent the external debt now stands at about $30 billion, as regards people, the users of these budgetary positions, also, all of us who should respond to what are real demands, and is daily survival. I suppose, not that I would like to, I am absolutely convinced that we will hear from you by the end of this united debate how you think that when big social problems are created, because we can assume such a situation, in which the state of Serbia thinks to meet the population, and at the monthly level, two and a half thousand people are out of work, even though Mr Dinkic, who is supposed to be here, and he is the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. Over half a million people lived below the poverty line at the end of last year, and a growing number of people who are in the prospect of losing their jobs. Public consumption, which was the subject of our criticism, is now a big enough human problem. These people who have been employed by state and para-state institutions, not their own fault, but because the state has allowed them to establish their working relations, at some point remain without their regular incomes. Mrs Dragutinovic, I ask you, but again I know that you are not the right address to give me that comprehensive response, but you are a representative of the government, in which way the state of Serbia thinks to ensure the financial, social and economic security of citizens of Serbia who are already in trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18269	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always wonder when it comes to the draft budget or the draft budget rebalance, when a budget debate is brought together with some other laws, if that budget is the best thing we can get at some point, and I don't know how bad it is for us. If it's best, Madam Minister, it won't be against you, and if you unite the debate, obviously there's something you're afraid of and there's better solutions than what we're offered here. That's what you're fully aware of. We've been hearing for weeks that public spending is going to decrease, that the number of employees in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government will be reduced based on what I've heard, and now I see in the rebalancing proposal that there's nothing out of it. In addition to some symbolic savings and rare exceptions, there is no real and life-saving budget. The budget, i.e. the rebalancing, focused on savings in investment and agriculture, and in some rare cases, according to some authorities of the state administration. It can't make long-term positive effects, and the damage can do it for a long time. For a decade, perhaps more, our economy and the state have not been living on real income, but on bank loans, good or bad. Such a functioning of the economy is difficult because of the poor macroeconomic situation in the country, and the state still cannot create the right conditions because of its overwhelming and overpriced apparatus. Madam Minister, I ask you, what are we going to do with 102 state agencies, 102 directors of state agencies, 102 board presidents, 102 boards of directors, 102 cabinets? How much longer do we have, Madam Minister, various administrations and offices that are parallel bodies of the ministries? I believe you don't know. You don't know because you once said once that you couldn't find out where you had 50,000 employees in the authorities of the state administration. You don't even know who they are, you don't know where they work, you just know that the state separates funds for them. You can't even answer the question of what you're doing with NIP funds when it comes to Fiat and the flag. This country needed 310m euros to be paid by March, not to talk about how much this would improve the overall economic situation in Serbia and reduce pressure on the dinar. There's no money. On the other hand, instead of 310 million, we get cars that we have to buy, and the state to subsidize. Will it be the recapitalisation of a strategic partner? Answer me that question, too. Madam Minister, I may not have invented hot water, but if you were to force all former colleagues, some and present, that only half of what was stolen in the privatisation process, various bankruptcys of banks, companies, the development of expensive projects in the tourism area that would never live or live in 20 years, financing various feasibility studies that would never come into service, and for which huge funds were paid, if you had half of those incomes of your former, and some current colleagues made them return what they stole, I believe that the IMF would never have needed us, and we wouldn't have felt this crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18271	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic, instead of MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18272	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a picture of macroeconomic indicators in the first months, we have precise data for the first two months of the year, it's quite dreary. The data suggests that we are recording a decline in industrial production by 18.7%, of which the processing industry by 24.4, exports 26.9% and imports by 28.5%, and inflation on average increases 10% and we are registering a decline in employee earnings. This data has been mentioned several times today. For the sake of the public, I mention them. It is estimated that the gross social product at the end of this financial year will be lower by about two percent, that exports will drop by 14.8%, imports by 21%, and that the inflation rate will be about 10%. All of this shows that the impact of the global economic crisis is great and that the consequences are obvious. Last October, the government of the Republic of Serbia took certain measures to amortise the impact of the crisis in such a way as to increase the guaranteed level of savings deposits to 50,000 euros, abolish interest on foreign exchange savings, capital gains and transfer of absolute rights, as well as abolished the bank's mandatory reserve on new foreign loans. Since these were insufficient measures, the state reacts in January this year with a new package of measures and loans for the liquidity of the economy, loans for investments, consumer loans for the purchase of domestic products at the benefit of the benefit of interest rates. In early April of this year, the government adopted a package of measures in the area of fiscal policy aimed at reducing public spending, aimed at saving nearly 100 billion dinars. In addition, an arrangement with the IMF was agreed to strengthen the country's foreign reserves and ensure financial stability. Therefore, savings are being designed to reduce adverse effects of the crisis. In fact, it was assumed that saving and rationalising the expenditure of the state administration would not endanger vital functions and would positively affect the real sector. Social responsibility and protection of citizens' standards will increase, economic activity and employment will be fostered. The amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens provide for an increase in the tax base for all forms of income, an increase in excise duty on oil products, an excise on mobile phones, the overall profit of public enterprises goes to the budget, an increase in the tax on registration of motor vehicles, water facilities and aircrafts, an increase in gun keeping taxes, a reduction in wages in the state administration, an increase in taxes, but also a halt in the reception of new workers in the administration, with the cost of travel and representation being stopped, the cuts to the cost of mobile phones and office materials are lifted. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not common to rebalance but to the budget of the current year, however, to this effect the government is forced by many of the many reasons and the most severe economic crisis since World War II to this day and the current recession that has affected the whole world. If the emergency has forced the government to change the budget, then it is a good definition for the government to bear the highest burden of the state and its administration. It's also a good idea to pay in the administration to reduce, but that the reduced ones can receive on a regular basis. It will be good if, for these reasons, the number of employees in the administration is reduced, with the state having to take care to preserve quality personnel and that this measure cannot be long-term. The austerity measures are quite comprehensive and in line with IMF recommendations, but there is still plenty of room for new measures and savings. Further rationalisation must continue, above all, in places that are not few, such as double competencies in individual resolutions, where the same jobs are done by ministries and agencies. It is necessary to stop investment in some projects that we are sure will not be realised within the longer term. All resources from the savings need to be focused on reviving the economy, because that is the condition of our overall survival. It is necessary to introduce stronger financial discipline and speed up money flows, primarily in the timely reconciliation of the obligations of all entities. Inefficient collection and slow cash flows are a kind of blockade for the effects of the measures taken. It must be more precise to define the status of banks, primarily foreign banks and insurance companies, and they must bear the burden of the crisis in our country, not to bring profits out of the country. It is a great measure of the government to stimulate low interest in the economy from the budget, but where is the concrete contribution from the banks? Banks must immediately go for interest cuts, as Serbia has long been the market where all banks profit best. It must be invested in knowledge and expertise, which will be able to revive small-invested business facilities, people are fast employed, and the stake returns quickly, with the chance of further profitable business. Agriculture, climate, land and cheap labour are good assumptions for both profit and employment. Reduced segregation for local self-government poses a particular danger to many of the necessary activities in these specially undeveloped municipalities. With further economic policy measures, the government would have to defuse the danger and find mechanisms to further fund local self-government or amend the criteria in reducing isolation, which otherwise go to local self-government. In this country, everyone owes, and as much as it seems impossible, a government regulation on the implementation of multilateral compensation has been necessary to reduce the mutual obligations of many debtors and creditors and create the possibility of introducing order and financial discipline. It cannot fight the economic crisis that has blocked 214.6 billion dinar accounts in February, and 57,000 businesses have been blocked. Businesses often ask what the state can do in the banks regarding the withdrawal of credit with the currency clause? It is necessary to introduce an obligation for all beneficiaries of their debt to the economy to settle as soon as possible. An efficient and simplified mechanism for export lending must be introduced. Simply put, all participants in the creation and spending of budgets must raise efficiency and deal more rationally with all tasks. Of course, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support budget rebalancing, with accompanying laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18273	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18274	No measure from the government encourages production, does not contribute to an increase in exports, nor to preservation, let alone the opening of any new jobs, which would certainly have to be the government's primary task at the moment. This new arrangement with the IMF is proof that the existing Serbian government, instead of taking real policy, was in fact the most harshly misleading citizens of Serbia and the fraud they were used with, as well as complete incompetence, led to a complete collapse. I'm all an expert on experts, and they couldn't predict snow in December, rain in March, let alone the global economic crisis. The real truth is that you had information, but for the sake of winning the election, you had to promise towers and cities, knowing that when lies and incompetence become visible you would have the best explanation, which in psychology is called rationalization, that everything would be different if it weren't for these global economic monsters. It wouldn't be a big deal that you lied, you screamed, if it were just you. The problem is that when the pre-election promises and the programme presented by the former finance minister are compared, and now the government guard in the spring period, with all this new arrangement with the IMF, it becomes clear that the citizens of Serbia will pay themselves, and this expensive, false promises and fraud. We finance the EU by the ruling majority getting us into a simple application of the SAA. To make things worse, we also finance the Fiat, which is by no means in partnership with the state of Serbia, but solves problems in its own company, through the founding roles which, of course, provide for our citizens. I could talk about certain items of this budget by autumn, but I will focus only on what concerns the Ministry of Culture, which, under the conductor's stick of Nebojko Bradic and with the air help of such a lumen as the assistant minister of culture, Branislav Dimitrijevic, functions as the Ministry of the Navy in the Czech Republic – there is none, and when there are, the results are even more embarrassing, and the money is given to three-member groups of delinquent orientation, to meet their sexual preferences and projects of type of feeling for filling, impressions, and not bad in the whole. So, on page 63, the Ministry of Culture, division 23, function 820, cultural service, economic classification 481, grants to NGOs, part of the assets of this appraisal are intended for the work of professional and other associations of 102 million. The 2009 budget amounted to 162 million, and the description of this appraisal reads... (President: Time. Here, let me finish the sentence. The assets of this 120,000 appraisal are intended to finance the reconstruction of Hilandar and an amount of 52 million 800,000 for the work of professional and other associations. So, in the budget rebalancing, there is no deliberately defined amount for Hilandar. And that if there was no personal motivation and interest that existed for the rights of the gay population in the case of this Serb sanctity, all the way to the level of serious conflict of interest. What to expect from Mr. Bradic, whom "Kvirija" has grown to the heart or perhaps some other spiritual organ, and what to expect from the assistant in charge of international relations, which was opened in the "Yes, Maybe Not" show, on RTS, supported the anti-Serbian attitudes of Borka Pavicevic, disrespected the SPC and even quietly supported the minimalization of the Ustasha genocide in Jasenovac. It's perfectly fine for him to say that only 75 were killed there. 561 victims, and the morality of these two figures, through this estimated lack of funds for the reconstruction of Hilandar in this budget rebalancing, does not mean that they will bear legal consequences. In some other countries of this developed Europe, for which we have already been provided with a passage, but through a gas chamber, it seems, because of this attitude would be meant, rather than simply asking for, the resignation of both of us. What's very important is that I warn you as a party that is a folk, comes from the people and comes back to the people, you'll have a problem. The amendments to these balances and rebalancing will be written to you by the people. Nothing's over. It's just beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18275	Mr. Jovan Nesovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18276	The esteemed chairman, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about the 2009 budget rebalancing, it is important to see the situation in which we live today, both in Serbia and in the whole world. For the first time in 60 years, due to the global economic crisis, the world's global economy has recorded recession. The recession is recorded in the world's most developed countries and is recorded in the most developed countries of the EU. As a result of the worsening conditions of business and foreclosure and reduction of revenues in the state registers of many countries in Europe, budget changes are planned, or have already been made. Looking at the current impact of the crisis on our economy and our society, the government of the Republic of Serbia currently predicts that the decline of social product in Serbia will be 2% in 2009. It is true, when we talked about the 2009 budget in December 2008, that the government predicted that GDP in Serbia would grow by 3.5% in 2009. And that's where the government was wrong. The government was wrong because simply many other economists in the world, independent analysts, did not expect such a fall and such a crisis. If taken, to be honest, that in 2007, GDP grew 7%, in 2008, a sharp decline occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, then it can indeed justify the government and the budget promoters for 2009 that they were wrong about the growth rate of GDP. What should also be expected and what the government is planning at the moment is, due to a reduction in demand, what on the domestic market means a decline in imports of goods by 21% compared to 2008. a year, and also a decline in goods exports over 14% due to a reduction in demand for our goods in the countries to which we export. Also, there should be a reduction in foreign direct investment due to the crisis itself, lack of money and a reduction in demand for goods that can be produced here in Serbia and investor care to simply invest in new investments. To be honest, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can say whether in time or not, the crisis began to face and to react already in October 2008. At the government's proposal, the Serbian Parliament, where we all sat, in October 2008, brought a series of measures aimed at fostering domestic savings. Let's remember that there was deposit insurance at 50,000 euros. Saving interest taxes have been abolished, a mandatory reserve of banks has been lifted on new foreign loans. On the other hand, in January as the crisis deepened, the government was trying to help the economy. In late January, certain measures were put in place to help the liquidity of the economy, and four billion dinars were foreseen by the government to subsidise bank loans. Investment credits are also something found in the government of the Republic of Serbia's January measures and five billion dinars are also foreseen for subsidising the interest rate for investment of businesses in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia also allocated for consumer loans, for interest-rate subsidies one billion to purchase domestic goods, primarily meant cars and tractors, as it has now continued to move. The third group of measures was taken in early April 2009. The third group envisions a fiscal adjustment of the budget of the Republic of Serbia of 95.4 billion dinars installed in this budget. This fiscal adjustment of 95.4 billion means a programme of measures, i.e. reducing the revenue side by 30 billion, and the revenue side will be realised in the income tax of citizens, excises on gasoline and diesel, excises on mobile phone impulses and on the payment of vehicle registration taxes, as well as transfers from public enterprises and all those institutions that make profits towards the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, a 65 billion reduction is also foreseen. The reduction concerns salaries, employment, ministry expenditures, the reduction of transfers to local self-government and the reduction of the transfer of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. When you're reducing anyone, it's not good. It is not good to reduce transfers in local self-governments, but you know what – the crisis must be tolerated by everyone, local self-government and state in general. Fifteen billion is less for local self-government, and it is certain that it will also affect investments in local self-government, but local self-government must start to think about saving, reducing the administration in local self-government, which means reducing public spending in local self-government. It seems to me, if they think that way, it will be easier to bear this reduction from the central level of government. It should also be pointed out, and what is foreseen by this budget, is an additional 23.9 billion for the pension fund. Just because the pension fund is poorly charged, our oldest citizens must be provided with funding from the budget and it is planned for 23.9 billion, and a total of 213.2 billion to go to the pension fund. Generally when looked at the budget, the revenue side of this budget has been cut by 49.4 billion, the spending side has been reduced by 28.8 billion. This means that the budget deficit has been increased from 50 billion to 70.5 billion, which is in agreement with the government of the Republic of Serbia and the IMF. This creates conditions that the Serbian state can sign a new 3 billion IMF arrangement for 2009 and 2010, which will have an importance for the stability of the dinar course in the coming period. What's important is for the G 17 plus party because it's a crisis time, because we have savings in all places where possible, certain funds that are meant for "start ap" loans, these are loans for beginners, because we need new businesses to hire new people, i.e. subsidized loans for liquidity of the economy, for investments and programs to replace old cars and tractors, for new machines, it's set aside 13.4 billion and that's something that's left and that's good in this budget. On the other hand, active employment measures at the National Employment Service and 10,000 members, these are people who are under 30 years old, are 3.5 billion, which will happen in 2009. The funds for the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia that need to be paid special attention at the moment seem to me. Two segments are important. One is for the development of entrepreneurship and businesses, where approximately 2.5 billion are intended, and the other segment is for the development of infrastructure in these most underdeveloped municipalities of the Republic of Serbia and that is 2 billion dinars. The government will also look to improve the quality of services, related to catering and tourism services, of course, with a strategy to develop tourism in the Republic of Serbia. There will certainly be insufficient funding for NIP projects, but you know what, if the state finds favourable loans from certain institutions, then it can be expected that these favourable investment loans, which will go through the NIP ministry and other ministries, can simply replace something called the lack in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Whether this is the final budget rebalance or not, whether these measures are sufficient or not – time will show. I'm absolutely sure it's going to be difficult in the next period, but that's what's ahead of us, and we have to deal with it. The next thing I want to say is about the law on pension and debt write-off on the basis of contributions to health insurance obligations. We adopted amendments to the law last year, and now we're making new changes. We then predicted that by 31 December 2008, everyone would apply for contributions from earlier years to rest and after three years there would be a discharge of those debts. Statistics show that only 281 legal entities submitted that claim of 282 billion and that less than 10% of those companies that owe on this basis. The debt is only for legal persons 33 billion and for entrepreneurs 11 billion. This is important to extend, as provided for in the Law, until 31 December 2009. Two reasons are very important. One is to help the economy dissipate, so that there is no blockade of some of the debts that were previously due. Another thing that is important, that insurance companies can verify health books, that they can use mandatory health insurance that is defined by health protection laws. The second law, which I would like to say very briefly about, is the law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net fees and other incomes in the state administration and the public sector. I think there's a lot of talk about this in the National Assembly and the public. It's a lot of talk because, I have to admit, at one point the compensation of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises and some other agencies were, I can't say abnormally, but they were big. This law is now no longer a recommendation from the government of the Republic of Serbia, but laws must also be respected – who does not respect it will be punished. Here it defines who the law applies to and who it doesn't apply to. The important thing is that they will only tax the profits that are to be said in the state administration and more than 40,000 dinars. So from 40,000 to 100,000, that difference is 10%, and over 100,000 is 15%. In the state administration, there can no longer be a salary higher than 180,000 dinars, six average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, there are also limited salaries to boards of directors and supervisors. It is said that the boards of directors and supervisors may have an average salary of October 2008, the president may have 50% higher compensation and a deputy 20% higher compensation. In Article 7, it seems to me that the government has well assessed that there are no supplements involved in past work, night work, working during national holidays and additional workloads. Looking at all this, the G17 Plus parliamentary group will support all these laws and budget laws for 2009 and calls on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18277	Before I give my word to the next reported, I am informing the National Assembly that today's work will be in direct transmission by 19.00 p.m., and then our work will be delayed. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Time available to the LDP parliamentary group for 7 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18278	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this budget rebalance directly endangers the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from which I come. In fact, Article 2(2) of this budget says directly – that this budget rebalance does not intend to finance any delegated powers to the province of Vojvodina. This means dear Vojvodina, dear citizens, that there is no statute of Vojvodina, a new statute – because there is no new statute without jurisdiction law. There is no law on jurisdiction because there are no funds to fund these responsibilities, and these responsibilities will therefore not exist unless they can be financed. So, no statutes, no jurisdiction laws, no expansion of the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina. As far as the second point is concerned, it's agriculture, because when we mention Vojvodina, we automatically associate it with agriculture. Agriculture is obviously threatened here, too, because it's been reduced by approximately 4.6 billion payments for agriculture. Also, if we say "agriculture", we mean subsidies, because agriculture without state subsidies cannot survive. If we reduce subsidies from 40.9 billion to 34 billion, this means that we have significantly reduced the allocations for subsidies, and the most agriculture expects state aid, the most it expects is to be helped – to be subsidized. This means that Vojvodina cannot in any way be satisfied with this budget rebalance offered to it. This means that Serbia really thinks it stays on the same path, to continue the same trend as decentralisation, as regards the position of Vojvodina as well as its treatment. I would just like to point out, as one good indicator, how the interests of Vojvodina are taken into account, which is a very good example – the National Investment Plan, which of the 4,020 projects in which Vojvodina participated with 774, adopted every 110th Vojvodina project, a total of seven projects of the adopted 339 worth 201 million dinars. Compared to that, Jagodina got the same decision from the NIP over 250 million dinars, if I could see right in this decision. The Duke equals Jagodina. It means so much to this Serbia, this Vojvodina. Therefore, Serbia remains one centralised, one party state, one highly ethic state that is very expensive, and I believe that this budget rebalance did not end up with a decrease in consumption. This consumption will have to continue to decrease. We expect rebalancing in September, and then we'll see if the state stays on these cuts, with these cosmetic cuts that obviously aren't enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18279	The word has a folk letter from Gorica Mojovic, followed by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm just asking you to register in the electronic system so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18280	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will talk about that part of the budget in Sections 23 and 231, it's about the Ministry of Culture. I also talked about the funds for the Ministry of Culture in December, when we had on the agenda a draft budget for 2009, of course, very commendable, especially from the point of view of the funds provided for by the culture in 2009, but at that time I pointed out some circumstances that were not good in the budget either. First, on the lack of the Ministry of Culture's financial plan, which is also the ministry, as well as all other programme ministries, was obliged to deliver under the budget law, which is done by some ministries that have much broader powers such as education, health, etc. Secondly, I also pointed to a high amount of funds on the so-called so-called. discretionary position, i.e. on economic classification 424. This is the position on which the spending of funds is decided under a special government act. Third, which is why I, as well as this time, have given the amendment, at an inappropriately low level of funds for basic activity, i.e. for the programming activities of national cultural institutions. Why am I saying that even then I pointed out these circumstances? Because they're only now fully visible, when it comes to rebalancing. The lack of a financial plan puts some amounts at risk, because we don't have a programme, purposes, projects, we don't know what resources will be spent on. When it comes to this position, i.e. economic classification 424, under a special act of the Government, i.e. perhaps I could say by the Ministry's special will, it remains the highest when it comes to programming positions. When it comes to national institutions, regardless of the culture ministry's budget, as well as the majority of ministries' budgets, is down 26%, it is unacceptable that exactly the position for national culture institutions' programmes has been reduced by 40%. In order to avoid confusion, I would only mention some of those 24 national institutions of culture, to understand what I'm talking about. It is about the National Museum, the National Theatre, the National Library, the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Archives of Serbia, the Belgrade Philharmonics, the Cinemathetics, the National Ensemble "Colo", the History Museum, the Ethnographic Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum "Old Village", the Museum "Sirogojno", the Museum of naive art, or the Library of "Mothers of Serbs", etc., all with 14 other cultural institutions with KIM. What exactly is this about? For these purposes in 2008, according to the budget rebalancing we adopted for 2008, 287 million are foreseen. The budget projection by the Ministry of Culture gave to the Serbian Parliament's Culture Committee in November last year amounted to 445 million for these purposes, to reduce the amount to 320 million for unknown reasons in the December budget itself. This position compared to 2008 had the smallest growth, but in the rebalance compared to the budget adopted in December, as I said 40%, that is, for all these institutions in 2009, according to the law we are discussing today, 196 million are foreseen. Given that at least twenty percent of these funds should be spent on cultural institutions with KIM, this means that for all other institutions there are three or four million per year programmes. I don't know how many exhibitions the National Museum will be able to organize, how many theatre shows will have the National Theatre, how many cultural monuments will be able to protect the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. It doesn't have to be that way. There are redistribution possibilities, and it's precisely from the positions I mentioned, I mean, first of all, to the discretionary position. But there's another interesting position, which is position 451, because this is the Ministry of Culture and Media. In that position there is still the amount of 330 million that is planned for the financing of institutions whose transformation, regardless of what we had obligations under the law, is still not mentioned. I mean Tanjug, Film News, Radio Yugoslavia, Business Review and Pristina Unity. I don't think this ministry is wrong that there are still no transformations left by these institutions, but I don't think it can be talked about transforming the institutions of culture, or even eliminating them, and that these institutions of information continue to remain on the budget gaps. To finish, I have nothing against Tanjuga, Radio Yugoslavia, Film News, but I have no objection to bringing the issue to the national institution, because as I say we care about what are the symbols of national sovereignty, integrity. We all know that the pillars of national identity are culture, and the bearers of that identity are national institutions. They need to be changed, they need to be transformed, they need to be promoted, but with this kind of relationship, even financially, we don't need to lead them to a slow dying. They will only be able to survive with salaries and some basic, elemental costs, but without programs. My conclusion, therefore, is that this budget, with a total reduction of 26%, can also ensure the survival of cultural activity, but with redistribution within the budget itself, given the position and purposes I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18281	The People's Messenger Jovan Palalic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18282	Dear Prime Ministers, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this presentation, I would like to focus on one area that I think is extremely damaged by this proposal of rebalancing. First of all, let me say that it is a rebalancing itself, we have followed all of this in the way that it came to the government's agenda, and then to the National Assembly, in fact, the IMF's rebalancing. And it is quite certain that the government of the Republic of Serbia would not have come into a situation if it had thought of such proposals at all, nor would it have ever remembered, had it not been in a situation to address the IMF and in the absence of the Prime Minister, perhaps one of the presidents of the international institution would have been more competent to answer what was actually wanted with such a disastrous budget rebalancing. As we said in the discussions during the day, in addition to the fact that this rebalancing has an extremely negative impact on a whole series of social areas, on economic activity, on state institutions, I want to say that this rebalancing affects the area of local self-government. We have repeatedly been here in the National Assembly, ahead of announcements that local self-government transfers will be reduced to 15 billion, we also warned Minister Diana Dragutinovic here that it is necessary to talk first on the Committee on Local Self-Government, when it was scheduled three weeks ago, so the minister did not show up, so today she did not show up again because she was on the DS parliamentary group, to discuss the consequences of local self-government in cities and municipalities in a situation where the transfer funds are reduced by 15 billion. It was not enough that the MPs indicated it, but the representatives of the government and the minister disobeyed the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which very competently carried out an analysis of what will happen when this rebalancing is adopted and when this measure is applied. What proved to be an unserious relationship to local self-government is the fact that we have been listening for months to this government's pompous announcement of the rationalisation of jobs in local self-government, to hear today that despite all the pressures that have been on local self-government, pressures on employees to accept government programs, some people have therefore designed their future lives, based on the severances they were to receive, the government is now giving up on the programme, giving up because they allegedly have no funds. The indifference, shown in each policy-making segment, is particularly evident in those areas related to local self-government. It is disastrous that the government of the Republic of Serbia enters a project to reduce transfer funds, without any analysis of revenues in local self-governments or initiating investments in local self-government, the social threat of individual underdeveloped local self-government, any aspect of a serious analysis that would be the right measure of why transfer funds are being reduced. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in the draft budget, is trying to make what we have been pointing out all along, that this reduction will go linearly, that only one possible criterion here points out as a possible mitigation of this completely secure linear reduction, which is that only the number of inhabitants is the criterion on which the transfer funds will be reduced. I really cannot believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia couldn't find ways in this situation, when it brings this rebalancing, to give up the reduction in transfer funds. Equal regional development will be threatened, and I urge representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept the amendments submitted by the DSS, to give up this harmful and catastrophic measure towards local self-government, in all ways to warn the bankruptcy of certain local self-governments that will take place in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18283	The word was sought by the Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18284	Dear fellow Members of the People, however, I wanted to address you, not to wait for those seven hours, so that one of you had no opportunity to respond, and yet I was with you all day, and I thought it made sense to say a few words about the Ministry of Education and the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Education, given that this is what counterpart Shami mentioned today and there were words at the meeting of the Education Committee, which this morning came out on the proposal for the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. What I want to tell you about the structure of the budget and the number of employees and what the Ministry of Education together with the Ministry of Finance is serving and what it does is next. Despite the reduction in the volume of funds belonging to this ministry, with 108 billion and 804 million, as foreseen in the 2009 budget, this rebalance is 107 billion and 634 million, respectively, and 1.15 billion is less than 1.1%. The bottom line is that the education system will not be questioned for the simple reason that, when you look at the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Education, most of it goes for personal income and individualisation for employees, and for other things, it is a small amount of funding compared to the needs that exist objectively, however small, it cannot endanger the objectively difficult situation anyway. I'm saying this very honestly, because when you look at the budget structure of the Ministry of Education, we now have a situation that 96.92% of the budget of the Ministry of Education is defined for the personal incomes of employees and the separation for that purpose, and 3.8% for the rest. This detachment trend, something we talked about this morning at the Educational Committee, began since 1998, when the relationship was 88:12. In the years that followed today, this relationship kept increasing, and we came to this situation. Today we have the next fact situation, that 96.92% of the funds are allocated for personal incomes, of which the salaries and other fees participate with 91.48%, and social protection fees 5.44%. There's scholarships, loans, accommodations and all that. When it comes to investment, investments in the field of education this year will amount to 1.572.939.000 dinars, which is 1.46% of the budget. It's very, very small. Why a little bit? Because different institutions from all levels of education in the Republic of Serbia have shown the need for investments of 60 billion and then you can think for yourself how much between 60 billion and this amount is a big difference in the way of the desired ones. Even within that, together with the NIP, we predicted that one large number of schools, different objects and everything that falls within the area of investment, let's do in this year 2009. Of course, out of our own investment, 0.25% belongs to us, 0.46% for the University, and we got 807 million or 0.75% from the NIP, and we're going to do that all these years. When I say – for the NIP – it is understood that commitments from 2008, which are part of the NIP's cost structure and 2009 as some projects go further. As for other expenditure on institutions, competitions, training, services, materials, material costs of the university, we will have 1,742,871,000 or 1,62%. I have to tell you in advance that we expect certain problems here, because that means the material costs of all institutions and we're behind. We've been behind, and we've been behind since November last year when, as a general state, we've come to a problem from the point of view of available funds and since then, a late payment, and that's something that exists now, and we don't need to hide that fact. That's what we need to talk about. Namely, I say once again, the budget of the Ministry of Education is so high, the participation of education in the social gross product this year is 3.59. It is less than last year, although my colleague Diana comforts me that there is no separation at the level of local self-government that is, according to methodology, 0.09% and then it comes out almost 4.5%, which has absolutely its value, but is far from what education needs. I have to mention something that one of my colleagues mentioned earlier about investment, and I have to tell you that we've been trying to focus these limited resources, too. I agreed with my colleague, Bojan Pajtic, in early September of last year that he would try to make the funds available for the education of infrastructure development use, i.e. investment in Vojvodina, and with counterpart Dragan Gilas to do the same in Belgrade, so that we, however modest, would try to focus on the rest of Serbia and try at least some principle of equality to establish, little in relation to the needs that exist. I expect their help, both as Minister and as Ministry, in the realization of the project of publishing free textbooks, since you know that we want 80,000 champions to get a set of textbooks from the state and be free of charge. And we will implement the project – the Internet at every school, because we have great help from Telecom. I have to say that we are infinitely grateful to them for that, because we are finally going to take a big step here. I think that in years before we missed the chance, when there was money from privatisation, to invest more significantly in the field of education, but that's the thing that's over and we're not gonna lamentate, but we have to turn to what's coming to us. If education isn't as black as it looks, I think they're saying the things I'm about to mention. These days, as a state in the area of higher education at a conference in Luven, held next week, we will receive an evaluation for the implementation of the Bologna Process and what we have done in the area of higher education, and will lead our country's delegation from Monday to Wednesday at the conference. We have been informally informed that we have received a score of 3.86, meaning that we are in the upper part of the European countries applying the Bologna Declaration, and by that part we will be part of the European Educational Programme, but more importantly, this evaluation structure, 3.86 clearly tells us where we are great, where we have a 5, and where we have a 2 or a 3 somewhere, and that will be an indication of what we should do in the area of higher education. Now in order not to tell you everything in education, I'll only mention that two weeks ago, it seems to me ten days ago, the National Educational Council, with the new members you've chosen, started working and they presented a very ambitious plan that implies changes in the education system. Knowledge standards for the eighth grade will finally be adopted, and then these standards should be downgraded to first grade level. We expect everyone to change according to the standards of knowledge and the teaching program and to prepare new textbooks, to simply create a new system that will be more quality, the quantity will be smaller, in other terms, compared to the quality, that the teaching method will be different, that children will be able to apply that knowledge in life, and simply show both the quality and also the level of education, to try to look for their life chance later. In the fall, we will promote adult education, one subject that was unfortunately in our second plan. I think that in October, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will declare the law, and then we will finally regulate the issue of informal education, additional vocational education and lifelong learning, education that is very important in Europe everywhere because it helps the economy of any country. Because there is a difference between this system of education that exists, basic, medium and high, and this additional or lifelong learning, for the simple reason that this lifelong learning and additional education helps to respond faster to market requirements, because we are constantly respected whether we as a country have a system of education that responds to market requirements. So there's a lot of it. I just need one more sentence and I'm going to finish, because I really think there's a lot to talk about education, but I just wanted to talk to you and say these few words. If there are questions, I'm at your disposal, since next week I won't be here, of course, I'm still here with you, there's a lot of issues, because there's a lot of things in education, but I think I said the most important thing. If one of his fellow MPs wishes to ask himself, but it is the essence of the education system in RS, despite the reduced budget it will function this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18285	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. The time available for the LDP parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18286	Dear Vice-President, distinguished minister, co-workers and colleagues, Mrs Dragutinovic, in six months we've been seeing each other here for the third time and we're talking budget or budget rebalancing. The fact itself says that something with this country and your government is wrong. You can take it out now for the wrong IMF evaluations, but trust me, we spoke to you in October when you suggested that shockingly wasteful rebalancing for 2008 – reduce ministries, save, no Serbia and these citizens of money to pay for all this. You disobeyed us. In December, we did not submit amendments because we cared about the agreement with the IMF, which we have advocated since 2007. It's just, we thought, if we can't force you into serious reforms and savings, I guess they can. Here we go again. You asked for $400 million in January. It was clear that everything was unrealistic. Now we need money, big money, to finance it. We have a lot of objections to the budget, and I only have three minutes left. It's illogical. One is mentioned, the Ministry of Faith, we advocate to abolish, exists only in Israel. If we put Israel in Europe, there it is, it only exists in Israel. It has a budget of as many as 250 MPs. I really don't understand it's savings. You say these are austerity measures, economic austerity measures. Indeed, these economic measures lack two segments, em not saving, em missing two segments. Imagine, you say you've reduced discretionary expenditures, and you're forming a special fund that will be charged with a reduction in wages, whose spending money is not defined, it'll be later. Somehow I predict that there will be physical reckonings in your government when it comes to the agenda of spending that money, and that is absolutely at the moment the ultimate discretion, because we don't know how it will be spent, for what purposes and who will spend it. The cabinet of Vice-President Dinkic is scheduled for eight million for salaries, and 18 million for contracts services, etc. I'd say those other economic measures are missing, so not just saving, but encouraging the economy. We have spoken to you all these months – tax the monopolies, give you a breath of economy. If you had introduced VAT payments per charged and not invoiced realisation in October last year, you could be doing much better, and the economy has more money. All in all, if you are unable to make a fundamental turn because such a coalition and this budget best shows that the party state survives under this government, because when you couldn't agree, you linearly cut everything with an axe. Try a little politics to make a detour. Come on, relax relations with countries with which we only have surpluses, which are Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia. Come on, come on, come on. Come on. Come on. I'm talking to you, and I see Cvetkovic here or the president of the shadow government, Mr Tadic, don't take this personally. Declar on sincere membership in Euro-Atlantic integration, declare membership in the NATO Pact. You can do that if you're not able to do this. Or you can't do that either. For the end, to finish, it saves when it's there, and when it did, it fell apart. Now that it's gone, you'll know it's hard to save. The Indians, when the pale-faced took their land, said it was not their country (President: Four minutes). ..that it's a land borrowed from their grandchildren. The government's economic policy, unfortunately, is spending our grandson's money, but it's unproductive. God help you. We're looking at the collapse of your government, but it's very unfortunate that this country is being destroyed as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18287	The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, followed by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18288	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, what I have to pass on to you, and I suppose you all probably already know, this debate today has in principle caused a lot of public attention. I'm glad you had a chance to hear from the present minister of enlightenment what the situation is, what the plans are. Unfortunately, we cannot look forward to cutting the budget positions provided for the Ministry of Education, and we hope that in this part, which is really very sensitive, however, the effects of the financial crisis will not feel so much. What we really don't understand, by analysing all these financial amounts that are defined for certain areas, and should improve or at least maintain the level of development in the state of Serbia, we really suspect that this kind of budget rebalancing will be able to accompany economic activity here by May-June. We fear very likely, however, despite this famous article 8, there will be budget rebalances. We're not looking forward to that fact. To be honest, we do not see how it will be able to come out of the major problems Serbia is going to face, and I am trying in a decent way to present my colleagues who have made a significant contribution to this debate. One of these, we are very proud of this young team, is young counterpart Ivan Ninic, who regularly participates in the SRS anti-corruption team, and for this occasion has analysed certain budget positions that we think Serbian citizens will be interested in, and I assume that Mrs Dragutinovic will take part, of course, in response to what we, as an SRS parliamentary club, represent here. So, if we run a budget revenue and expenditure analysis for the first quarter of this year, it is easy to conclude why the Serbian government had to propose this budget rebalance, for which we, as the SRS, think the budget rebalance was ordered by the IMF and that a good part of this international financial institution conditioned this budget rebalance. The data suggest that budget revenues in the first quarter are lower by 7.2% nominally and by 15.2% realistically compared to the same period last year, while on the other hand, expenditure or expenditure in the budget over that period are lower by 0.6% nominal and 9.3% realistically, if we compare only the first quarter of this year and last year. Thus, budget revenues, expressed at the end of March, amounted to 140.8 billion and 154.3 billion dinars, which definitely and unequivocally indicates that the budget deficit in the first quarter of this year amounted to 13.5 billion dinars. The deficit was primarily created as a result of an increase in budget transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, 28.9% or even 113m euros more than planned, and the answer to the question why this budget gap was created, if we know that pensions are frozen, is hidden in the fact that the PIO Fund could not afford enough funding to pay out pensions on its own, because in the first quarter of 2009, it was drastically reduced by employers in Serbia. That's what the opposition colleagues were talking about today. I don't want to repeat what they said, but it's very important to re-absorbed that this fund should certainly rely on the economy, which, unfortunately, is increasingly devastated. This fact also tells us to ask the following questions: why, for example, in the past, has the inflow of contributions to the PIO Fund been reduced by employers; is this due to the lay-off of workers, or have employers started paying earnings on black, tax-free and contributions? Then we're already talking about the gray economy. What is also significant, given these two facts, and I believe that we will hear the answers to these questions, what are the competent labour inspectors doing in this case, what are the investigators of the Serbian Tax Administration doing? It is simply impossible for state institutions to have no answer to the question of what is going on with the inflow of funds into the PIO Fund, if we know that the full three months of this problem produces a budget deficit. Also, what is incomparable, thus giving very little hope, in fact, of a small intensity, concerns all those promises that have made a real revolution since the beginning of 2000, which the people have truly believed -- that there will be a reform of the system, that Serbia will be economically recovered. We are now in 2009 and very few companies remain to be sold or sold out. We're in 2009, in which we don't have accurate information where the funds went from the privatisation funds, how did these funds get spent? Honestly, maybe all the talk about budget, budget rebalancing and budget spending should start and end with the fact that we don't have a final account, or an audit of the final accounts, so we don't have a transparent financial flow flowing out of the budget, or people don't know how to spend their money. That it is extremely important to testify what my counterpart Ninic has organised for this occasion, and it is an example, perhaps why we do not have an audit of the final accounts, why we do not know where the budgets on the burden of Serbian citizens are spent, is the fact that, for example, the situation that took place in 2006, which was very detailedly analysed by the SRS anti-corruption team. So the budgetary inspection ended four months of budgetary control in June 2007. This is a very important example that could give us answers why we later and we don't have final accounts and final accounts audits, in which all the ways were spent by huge funds. There is Dr Obradovic absolutely right, it was too late with all the reforms in time which were much happier, and which had some financial support to implement the reforms, and now we are in a situation of ceasefire before the outbreak of serious social conflicts. That's a fact. So, for example, the find of the budget inspection in June 2007, concerning the Ministry of Finance, therefore, the management of the 2006 Ministry of Finance, to remind you, then Mr Dinkic was Minister of Finance, about this control was made up the minutes, so that someone wouldn't think, God forbid, that the abuse was the official number of that record is 401-00294/2007, which can certainly serve as a very plastic example of spending budget funds. In doing so, what has to be said is that, during the budget inspectors, they did not, for example, give a financial plan for 2006, which had to be made up in accordance with the law, nor did the final accounts for 2005 and 2006 be made up in the prescribed form, and there were no signatures of the responsible persons of the ministry. So if a state body, like the Ministry of Finance, does not have a financial plan and a final account, then how can the remaining 10,000 budget users be expected to have these basic documents on projections and implementation of budget expenditures over the year? But let's get back to the report on the budget inspection. Also, we will later during the debate to give an example of the accidental spending of budgets, for example, for the city of Belgrade, through a decision by the Supreme Court of Serbia to return certain funds to the city's budget, but on that afterwards. So today we're talking about budget rebalancing, and we have these concrete examples that have not been talked about, and we need to believe that what we're about to do with budget rebalancing is going to go the right way. What the inspection then found was that there was only one economic classification, in 2006, the finance minister broke through the budget for as many as two billion and 579 million dinars, as the 2006 Budget Act, for the position -- for the acquisition of domestic financial assets of the finance ministry, was envisaged and approved four billion 623 million dinars. What has to be said is that seven billion 383 million dinars were spent at that time. The very important item that was then observed is 59.5 million dinars for famous services per contract, including information services for the Ministry of Finance's needs. Just to remind you, in May 2006, the finance minister paid the Euromoney magazine - public information services of 4.2 million dinars. Therefore, the invoice without any prior implementation of the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. So another fact -- the inspection found that the finance minister for the budget item -- other professional services at the finance ministry spent 66.4m dinars, and that the amount of 44.5m dinars for this purpose was spent on funds received from foreign borrowings from international organisations. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance paid as much as 35,000 euros on the burden of this item to the London Fitch Ratings Agency in March 2006, on behalf of the annual credit rating fee. Therefore, although the budgetary inspection had the intention and the desire to control all costs, this did not go hand in hand, as the inspectors received the answer that the financial ministry's competent service did not have the required documents for those expenditures. Furthermore, the inspection found that the finance ministry had an expenditure of 115.2m dinars on the burden of specialised services, so in total, it cannot be seen by the structure of the budget positions. But here's an example of how money has been spent so far and why we're in this situation right now. And that under unexplained circumstances, it is in order to implement the Serbian government's conclusion 00/198/2006. As of July 27th, 2006, which bears the mark, a business relationship with the company "Barbour, Griffith and Rogers" from Washington, which paid this company a service of as much as $368,000 from the budget. The budgetary inspection in its report does not state what kind of engagement this is, but it is noted that it was not possible to establish that this job was assigned in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. In addition, compensation for these services was paid mainly in advance, and in the controlled documentation there was no evidence that the agreed and paid obligations were actually carried out. These examples provide us with answers to questions and dilemmas that we ask all the time, why there is no final account and why there is no revision of the final accounts. Also, on the burden of budgetary position – specialized services in front of the Ministry of Finance, which the minister represented at the firm, and I hope to read this well, as the Swedish firm "Krebfrol agatan", which was represented by a certain Mr. Danel, was signed a very interesting contract. The subject matter of this contract, according to the inspection report, is providing advisory services to the Republic of Serbia in negotiations with the EU and the United States, members of the Contact Group, international financial institutions, the Paris Club of Trustees, as well as neighbours in the region, and particularly on Kosovo's future status, European integration of the Republic of Serbia, the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to achieve significant savings for the Republic of Serbia. One of the contracted obligations of the perpetrators was to provide tactical support for meetings with key international negotiators. The period of engagement of this company was July-December 2006. The job, agreed by the finance minister at the time on the burden of Serbia's budget, amounted to as much as $120,000, but monthly, or $720,000, for the entire six-month engagement, which cost more than 40 million in Serbia's dinar equivalent. The budget inspection found that in the framework of the operation of the finance minister there was no conclusion of such a contract, and that the matter was even worse despite the contractual obligation for the contracting authority to carry out and deliver a written report on the realisation of the contract, the inspectors did not provide such evidence from which it would be seen whether and how the job was done. Also, what the inspection found was that the finance minister in 2006 transferred funds to the burden of specialized services for the implementation of the Exit Festival in 2006 to the same-name association, worth 12 million dinars. This was done through the Ministry of Finance, which was not responsible for cultural affairs, and was done contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, and the finance minister did not make a proper solution, nor did he conclude a justice and spending contract of 12 million dinars. These are just some of the examples of how budgets have been spent and also very plastic, clear and concrete response to the opposition's regular insistence on why we have no insight into budget spending and why Serbian citizens have never been given a precise state response, in which budget spending has been spent all the time in certain positions. Also, what we as the SRS parliamentary group have been looking for starts in 2000, and we say: how much concrete donation has entered the state of Serbia and how has the funds been spent? It would be an answer to us who actually stalled reforms in the state of Serbia and whose interest a certain part of the executive government is implementing. Based on examples like this, we can conclude that he is not carrying out the interest of Serbian citizens. Also, what we would like to hear in the light of the SAA is who will benefit from the potential application of a unilateral trade agreement with the EU. What we know is that Serbia's loss is recorded through 267m euros. The question arises, on the basis of these economic moves and on the basis of this spending, what was actually the economic stability guidelines and what was the economic policy guidelines? All these examples confirm one thing: that this is a systematic and continuous collapse of the Serbian economy, and I think we will soon find out for the benefit of whose interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18289	The People's Messenger Zoran Bortic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18290	The President-in-Office, respected ministers and representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs, a set of laws we are discussing at this session is a set of necessary and restrictive measures that will allow the Republic of Serbia to resist the growing economic crisis facing the whole world. These laws should provide for the country's basic functioning and ensure sustainable development of the Serbian economy in order to create conditions for exit from the crisis. It is right to say that these measures will change past awareness of how budgets are spent and of the common non-domestic policy that led to the duplication of institutions with uncontrollable staff incomes and an enormous increase in the state apparatus. There is a truth and a legitimate concern that the temporary restriction on the remuneration of employees will lead to the departure of experts, who will be led by economic reasons to leave the state's work. However, this damage is also less than the benefit Serbia will benefit from these measures, which will allow us to overcome the crisis more quickly and to spread the burden fairly to all classes of the population. I think it is necessary to put all the potentials in reviving the economy and those of its branches that will have a quick capital turnover coefficient, in order to allow the rapid flow of money into the budget. It is known to all that stability and development are provided by a faster turnover of financial capital and by investing in those branches of the economy that can engage a large number of labour forces and move the development of other business branches. Therefore, by investing in agricultural production and in food-processing potentials for a long time, they open up the perspective for our country to become an exporter of high quality agricultural products under the highest European standards. For the proper direction and development of the economy, money is needed, but it is much more necessary to have top-of-the-line knowledge and the involvement of the experts we have. That is why one of the most significant measures is to remove the duplicated institutions and create a one-stop-shop development policy. In other words, we have dozens of agencies and institutes formed, and most of their jobs can be carried out by the competent ministries. When it comes to foreign companies, banks and insurance companies operating on our market, it is necessary to insist that their business be in line with Serbia's laws. This specifically refers to banks and insurance companies where the money of our citizens and our businesses is located. These institutions should not make money out of Serbia during the crisis period, and it might be good for them to introduce a stimulating measure that would release the funds invested in the Serbian economy, and those amounts from Serbia would be taxed at a rate of 100%. In the next period due to money shortages, there will also be multilateral compensations between business entities and beating each other's claims by transferring goods to goods. The government should not allow these transactions to remain out of budgetary control, as each of these goods has a monetary expression of its value. In short, these measures will allow the functioning of the state, but it is particularly important to allow all local self-government in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia to function evenly through the budget. At the very end, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in voting day for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18291	This is the time available for the SPS-JS parliamentary group to be used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 13 minutes. After that, MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic. The time available to the G17 parliamentary group plus is 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18292	Dear Prime Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we had a rare honour yesterday and an opportunity for this parliament to visit the prime minister, or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I asked him a specific question. The question is -- at which session of the government of the Republic of Serbia was the adopted platform for negotiations with the IMF on a three-billion-euro credit arrangement? Mr Cvetkovic listened to the parliamentary questions for a long time and answered the same questions with a lot of smut and confusion. Among other things, he answered the question I asked. Namely, he said the platform was adopted by the government last week. I believe that the vast majority of citizens know this, but those who do not know, I want to inform them, I want to inform you too, Mrs Dragutinovic, and ask you to pass it on to the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic, that the IMF left our country three weeks ago, making talks and arrangements. Mr. Cvetkovic, along with you and the entire government, adopted a platform for talks with the IMF, as far as we can hear, I have no reason to doubt his words, two weeks later. That's a very good answer. In fact, it is the best response to DSS claims going since October, that this government headed by the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, has no strategy whatsoever, has not had one, nor has it today. Evidence and fact - you entered the negotiations asking for $2 billion, you came out of the negotiations with 3 billion euros. A double amount, 400 euros, to make it clearer for the citizens, per capita, is a debt that we are now taking on ourselves, but you here, although you had an obligation to provide us with the amended text of the memorandum on economic and fiscal policy, did not deliver it. Among other things, the reason you didn't deliver it is to see if it's the public debt of this country, when and how we repay it or not? I had a chance to talk to your assistant in your ministry yesterday. Asked whether 3 billion euros are the state's public debt, she replied she could not answer that question. Which is why I don't know. I don't know your last name. Ask around. What has been a feature of yours and in general for the last four or five months, since we have had this crisis intensely, is that you come to this Parliament with extremely unrealistic data, unrealizing the situation. You cannot say here that the conditions have changed, because by the opposition, among other things, the DSS MPs, in time since October, and especially in December, when we adopted the budget, you received information, our assessment of how the economic and financial situation in our country will move. At that time, you spoke, and then the prime minister, or prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, said that growth would be 3.5%. That was the IMF's assessment. Do you have your evaluation or are you relying solely on evaluations, like poor or good IMF students, which someone else is giving you? We want, and I think the citizens deserve, that you as finance minister and Mr Cvetkovic as Prime Minister will receive an authoritative response to what will happen to the economy in this country, not what the IMF will tell Serbia, and thus also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you said that the decline in social product is 2%. With the data that we have in the first three months and that are being said here by the DSS MPs, the optimistic assessment, to say a realistic optimistic assessment is that the decline is going to be at least 5%. That's the answer to the question whether we're going to have budget rebalances or not again in two or three months. We'll have that budget rebalance and the situation will be much worse, but you'll probably wait until September to hear it from the IMF. You're not facing reality. This coalition is made on false promises, on illusion. Now you are facing reality, or if not now, then you will face reality in September, when the situation in the economy and the economy is much worse. I believe this is the last budget you defend here, that if you are forced to come here in September, that your professional honor will not allow you to defend that budget. It will also be the best confirmation that this government has no economic policy either, and that, if nothing else, it will not welcome the next rebalancing, or that it will be forced, due to false promises and proven incompetence in these last year, to resign and return the mandate to the people, as all honest and honest people and politicians do in this country, and as it has been done in the near past. So I'll see you at the rebalance in September, see you at the December elections. Citizens, I firmly believe, will finally give a voice to those who want to realistically and realistically assess and the situation in our economy, and the situation in our foreign and domestic policy. You have not covered any of that segment in the first six months of your reign, nor do you now, and that is why it is time for you, and I say, no later in September at the next rebalancing, to bear your resignations well and for the people to choose the people's power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18293	National MP Nenad Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18294	Art. 27, 194 and 104. Madam Chairman, I think it is – I will repeat my request from this morning, but I will state another reason for this – the mandatory presence of the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, at this debate, if not today, then on Monday, surely when the debate on amendments takes place. Why? Here, all the TVs report that today we have state officials' statements that it is very possible that from the summer, unless these measures bring the result, and certainly will not bring a real VAT increase to 19%. So what are we discussing here today, if state officials say that the real VAT increase is 19%? I don't have to say what a VAT increase would mean for the Serbian economy at this point. It would be another huge rock around the neck for all Serbian businessmen, who already have a huge liquidity problem, who have a problem with VAT vomiting anyway, etc. Please, Madam President, that this request is passed on to the President of the Assembly, and I really don't think there is a more important thing in the Republic of Serbia today than this budget, and that the Prime Minister has no other obligation but has to be here with us MPs. I say, with great respect to Mrs. Minister, who does her job very correctly, I would even say well, and better than that, and she's trying, talking to the MPs, we have a lot of ignoring from the Prime Minister and from all economic ministers. There is nothing more important in the Republic of Serbia today than the budget and we ask it to attend this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18295	National MP, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, no 27, no 104, no 194 and you have just misused the right to receive a word on the basis of Rule 100 and to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You and I know you don't have any business obligations on the presence of government representatives in the Rules of Procedure. I have allowed you to speak for two minutes to say what you want, and at the request of receiving words, but I warn you that this is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and consider it the first step after which the expression of unpopular and unpleasant, but necessary measures for MPs who do not want to exercise the right but want to abuse their rights. So, my instructions as chairman, on the basis of Article 27, I direct you to carefully read the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly so that you can use the rights that they provide for you. National MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic has a word. He's not there. National MP Zoran Masic has a word after him, MP Ivan Jovanovic. The Progressive Group has seven minutes and 30 seconds at its disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18296	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in my presentation, I will primarily define and expose division 14, what concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, which is defined by this budget rebalancing, and, as long as it allows me, I will also refer to the position of the Ministry of Science's resources. What can first be seen when you look at this budget rebalance, it is that despite the government's advocacy to cut the so-called linearly. discretionary expenditures, that they are not linearly reduced among all ministries and that, in essence, the Ministry of Agriculture is the most reduced, even more than 26%. So this rebalance of the budget has significantly reduced the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture, and above all the funds that should be used to improve agricultural production in our country, because agricultural production and farmers are all the difficulties our country has been going through over the past 15 and over years, they have endured the greatest burden, the greatest victims have and it would be good for each government to keep that in mind and when planning an agrarian budget to plan it at a real and maximum amount. Unfortunately, with this budget rebalance, these funds have been reduced. For the sake of truth, I'm going to present here an overview of the data that has been in the past six years since 2004, how much the Agrarian budget's participation in the overall budget has been. In 2004, it was 5.33%, 4.24%, in 2006, 5.14%, in 2007 4.38%, in 2008, with budget rebalancing, 4.92%, without rebalance 3.66. The budget for 2009 reduced this to 2.92%, the rebalancing of this amount is now down to 2.22%. So what makes up the budget in the Agrarian budget compared to the total appropriations of the Agricultural budget with this rebalancing is 2.22%. That's more than twice as much as in 2005 and almost 70% less than in 2004. Only through this can you see what kind of agrarian policy is going on and where those 400m-euro stories are for agriculture in the campaign last year, primarily from you from the DS. To reduce as much as this reduction based on discretionary expenditures, you suggest that 4,600,000 be allocated to the Agricultural Budget from part of the Fund for the Development of Agricultural Production. The fund existed sometime since 2004 and until the beginning of last year, when the system and way of lending and incentives was changed, and these funds from that fund were used as short-term and long-term funds, meaning, as a short-term incentive, the funds that were given for a year and as a long-term one- to three-year grace period. You're proposing 4,600,000, and I have reliable data, since the last five years I've been president of the Agriculture Committee and compared to the data I received from the Ministry of Agriculture, based on short-term loans, I've been given 5.142,000,000 from that fund. Based on the long-term, 8.336.000,000 were given. Right now you have something less than four billion, and you don't have these four and 600. You count that by the end of the year or the beginning of next year, that figure will be about seven or eight billion, but from this fund it's given to encourage agriculture, according to what I have as data, close to 13 billion. I wonder where those funds are? I'm guessing that part hasn't been returned yet, but I think it's more returned than with what you're returning, despite these four and 600, you're still planning that billion dinars as some kind of credit to secure in terms of increasing that agrarian budget. However, obligations, respected agricultural producers, respected ladies and gentlemen MPs, are much greater to agricultural producers than these funds. Only two billion dinars have not yet been settled since last year, meaning commitments acquired, and according to the programme and distribution of funds from the Ministry of Agriculture delivered to the National Assembly and the Committee on Agriculture on 18 March this year, 133,000 should be defined as market measures or market incentives in agriculture. It is a payment per unit of surface or per hectare, then, for the genetic improvement of livestock farming, support for non-competitional land and export incentive measures, in fact support for non-competitional land, as far as I know, will be abolished. Furthermore, investment support for agricultural production of 1,400,000 is for the purchase of agricultural machinery and the rise of multi-annual plantings. Finally, for the implementation of the animal health care programme, about a billion dinars. All in all, it's close to 18 billion dinars just for these purposes. The funds are practically gone, and I wonder how you're going to get out in front of the farmers, how you're going to justify this agrarian budget. Because of the time I have available, I'm just asking for another 30 seconds. I want, above all, because of the people involved in scientific and research work, which is in this country over 3,000, that the resources for science are reduced to 928 million, that this country is extremely recklessly related to scientific and research institutions and in general to scientific and research work, that no more than two months are being paid off, and that these institutions are being financed by projects and that the funds for research work have been reduced in this amount of 928 billion dinars. A country that doesn't separate for science has no perspective and no progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18297	The People's Messenger Ivan Jovanovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milan Lapčević, and the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. The DSS parliamentary group has six minutes and 30 seconds and after the MPs Milan Lapčević and Zoran Shami, MP Marina Ragus, and thus exhausted the list of speakers according to the application for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18298	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, stands before us today on the 2009 budget rebalancing agenda. I wouldn't agree if it wasn't right and it wasn't necessary. All countries, including Serbia, face the effects of the global economic crisis. It's quite logical that in situations where we have reduced inflows in the budget, we also have a budget rebalance that was adopted last year. In this sense, there is no difference between countries especially Central Europe. I think this is justifiable and it's certainly possible there's going to be another rebalancing. I don't see anything strange in there. Certainly if there's a change in income, there's another rebalancing going on. As for the characteristics of this budget – it is a reduction in spending – that is what should have been done before. Since 2005, we have therefore had a drastic increase in consumption, especially wages in the administration and the public sector, it certainly wasn't good. During that period, it was necessary to invest in corridors, in highways, in railways and infrastructure, because it is repeatedly returned through the means that are determined according to these projects. So there is also economic benefits, and all employees and it is certainly far better than spending money on administration, wages and the public sector. As a consequence of all this, we have a situation that in the public sector there are far higher salaries than in the real sector. This certainly is not good and it is certainly necessary to seek to pay in the real sector closer to wages, at least closer, to the public sector and to the administration. Business conditions in Serbia need to be constantly improved, and that is what will allow us to invest more. It is therefore necessary to reduce bureaucracy and allow entrepreneurs and investors to operate easier. Then our companies will also have more competitive products and will be able to export them more easily and will have a better position than the one that is now. I would mention what some MPs mentioned, and these are transfer funds towards local administrations and cities. What needs to be done in making a memorandum and identifying these funds, which are now reduced by 15 billion, should be taken into account the number of employees in these administrations. This money certainly does not need to be defined to a greater extent by municipalities that have a large profit consumption, have a large number of employees. In some ways, they should not be rewarded because money is spent on wages, not on what is real and what is good, which is investment. There should be certain criteria. Certainly one of the criteria, since I come from the King, should be the number of refugees and displaced persons. We have the number 25.00, and it must be about 25% to 30% of the total population. This criterion should also be included in those criteria which will be respected when identifying funds for certain local administrations. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, we will, of course, support this draft budget rebalancing proposal, because we believe that this proposal reduces public spending in line with the agreement with the IMF Mission, the individual ministries by a quarter. That is certainly necessary and only now possible. All the other criticisms in question are not serious, and I think this is one of the ways we need to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18299	The word has been given by MP Milan Lapčević, after which the People's MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18300	Respected ministers, the chairman-in-Office, had been campaigning in Serbia a year ago, and were clapping various pre-election promises. We all remember that at that time both Serbian and government ministers were talking about 1,000 euros of free action; about the big investments that will come to Serbia after 11 May; about how Serbia will receive 200,000 new jobs after the election; how young people will get a chance at employment; how it will get better education, white Schengen, etc. It has also been said that we need a government that will pay first of all attention to the biggest problems in Serbia, and they are economical, a government that will have strong economic experts and will have an economist as prime minister. After a year or less than ten months, the government has managed not to bring Serbia 200,000 new jobs, but over 70,000 jobless people remain in Serbia for the past 10 months. Instead of new investments in Serbia, those investors who have been and invested money in this country are slowly withdrawing or shutting down production, and the example is "Ju-esstil", "Holicim" and many other companies. In less than 10 months, this government has managed to increase the gross social product of 7% to the decline of the social product for the projected, we have now heard 2%, and according to our estimates and economic analysts, it will perhaps be more than 5%. The most convincing scam that took place in the previous campaign was a fraud related to "Fiat". At the time, it was promised that Fiat as a strategic partner would invest 700m euros in the flag, that the flag would produce more than 200,000 cars annually and would export for a billion euros annually to foreign countries, primarily Russia. Fifteen days ago, he was Minister Šojgu and made it clear -- that he would not suffer fraud, to buy Italian cars from Serbia. Did you think that if you cheated on the citizens of Serbia, you'd cheat on the Russian state as well? Instead of measures in the budget, and by this rebalancing, you help those who fill the budget, those who support this country, and that is primarily business and agriculture, you simply put even more burdens on that economy and agriculture by applying the SAA. You have opened the possibility of products on the side, from imports, that they have lower customs duties and lower excise duties and that they are much more competitive, because they also have incentives for their own countries than domestic products, and thus you have additionally burdened our economy which, of course, records the decline, and thus the decline in employment and economic activity. Now it is proposed that we have not 100 billion more spending than the previous year, but 70 billion, through a deficit that will be covered by new loans through the IMF. As one said: “We are wasting what our grandkids have created. ” So, the way you run the country, you do it to her every day, more and more damage. It is best that what you intend to do – by taking credit, to help foreign banks that are the most profitable sector in Serbia, because last year they earned more than 300m euros and of course took it to their queens, to invest those funds in the economy, because this is the only possibility that this country will pull itself out of the crisis. Investment in economic activity and greater consumption can only overcome the crisis, not in this way how you intend to do it. After all, in the past 10 months you have shown how capable you are, or how incompetent you are, and how much damage you have done to Serbia. Therefore, the only logical way out of this situation is that the entire government resigns as soon as possible, because that's how Serbia will get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18301	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18302	Madam Chairman, we read in the paper that this is going to be a thrifty budget rebalance. Here's what this savings look like. As you know, the budget is 720 billion, approximately. Of the 720 billion, 60 billion are the discretionary rights of individual ministries to spend money based on government decisions or 8.3% of budgets. The champion of the world and the environment is Mr. Dinkic's Ministry, with 28 billion, which accounts for 47% of this amount or 4% of the budget. The ministries belonging to the G17 Plus party are 33 billion discretionary rights, which is 55% of this amount – so many of you democratic friends cost your coalition partner. This is 4.7% of the budget or about half of the budget deficit. I leave all my comments to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18303	The word has a folk MP, Marina Ragush, and she is the last to report a pay phone on the application for a word and a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18304	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, I am really protesting once again that we are not in direct transmission all the time of this debate. I honestly can't understand which is the more important direct transmission. (President: We're in session transfer, MPs, you probably weren't in the O.R. when I informed you that the transmission was running. I'm sorry, but I understood by 19.00, then I'm withdrawing the protest, but my protest was effective, that's nice to meet you. Indeed, it is an extraordinary interest of all people who invest certain funds so that the budget and the state of Serbia will function and we think that we are obliged to all citizens of Serbia to treat this debate in a reasoned way, so that we really value the analysis made by independent economic expert Dr. Dejan Miljkovic, and what I remain, based on this analysis, is obliged to say, and I think that it is very important, is a review by division, so that citizens eventually know what this budget rebalance looks like. In Section 1, relating to the National Assembly and its professional services, total expenditures have been reduced by about 400 million dinars and are now at 1.6 billion dinars. More than 50% of this reduction refers to salary reduction, economic classification 411, and reduction of parliamentary supplements, this is an economic classification of 417, which essentially means very little to citizens. In Section 2, relating to the President of the Republic, expenditures are reduced by about 25 million and are now about 126 million dinars. The majority of the reduction concerns travel costs that have been reduced by about 22 million dinars. Section 3 refers to the Government. There are 14 positions there. Some of these, I really don't want to bother citizens by mentioning all these positions, but these are the positions that concern the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy, the General Secretariat of the Government, the Office for Media Cooperation, the Office for European Integration, the Staff Management Office. The total expenditure reduction from all of these 14 positions is about 400 million dinars and now amounts to about 1.5 billion dinars. The savings are mainly achieved through reduction of wages, contributions, fixed costs, travel costs, contract services, materials, etc. Section 4 and 5 refers to the Constitutional Court and the judicial authorities. Division 8, as far as the foreign ministry is concerned, expenditures have been cut by about 740 million dinars and are now about five billion dinars. The savings of 740 million dinars were achieved in the same positions as in section 3. But what's interesting is that it appears later in other sections, in fact, economic classification 551, which did not exist within the section of the Budget Law. The economic classification of 551 refers to non-financial assets financed from NIP realisation funds, and the schedule and use of the assets of this appraisal will take place under a special government act. In the framework of the Foreign Ministry, 150m dinars have been allocated for this economic classification. Given the government's really significant discretionary rights regarding the availability of these funds, we do not know what these funds will be used for and whether they will be used at all, because the addition of certain members of the budget rebalancing proposal, such as Article 8, I spoke about it during today's debate, and I would not repeat it, but it also opens up the possibility that these funds will not be used, without possibly avoiding another budget rebalancing. Section 9 refers to the Ministry of Defence and covers military defence, the Defence Inspectorate, the Military Security Service, the Military Intelligence Service. The total expenditure reduction under the ministry is about four billion dinars, and thus budget expenditures will be 66 billion dinars. The four - billion savings were made under the 210 - military defense function through a reduction in wages, materials. Salaries have been cut by some 800 million dinars, machines and equipment. Section 10 refers to the MUP. Total expenditures have been cut by about two and a half billion dinars. Now they're 40.5 billion dinars. Salaries have been cut by 800 million dinars. Permanent costs have been reduced by 450 million dinars. A material for 820, and a 551-million dinar position appears within this ministry. I suppose, since these two last ministries are very important when it comes to national security of the country, we will soon hear how you think plans and activities are implemented for these two ministries, especially for the Ministry, when it is of great importance to make biometric passports. We know the MAP doesn't have enough men to deal with organized crime and corruption. Is this the relationship between the executive authority and one of the most significant actions at the top of the ministry's agenda, which is a deal with corruption and organised crime. Section 12 concerns the Ministry of Finance. The total expenditures under the ministry are not reduced, but are increasing by 123 billion dinars. This does not mean that political correctness works, that you do not reduce salaries and all the costs that the other ministries reduce, but what should be said is that within function 90, economic classification 464, and these are grants to compulsory social insurance organisations, there is expenditure of 29 billion dinars, and they are now 207 billion dinars. Of these 29 billion, 24 billion dinars directly increase funding for pensions of employees' insurance companies, which are now 175.5 billion dinars. The funds for farmers' pensions remain at the level of 13 billion dinars. If this is interpreted as an increase in funding, in terms of raising pensions, then that interpretation would be completely wrong. You will correct me if our interpretation is bad, but the fall in economic activity of direct implications has to fill the PIO Fund, because, in the context of the total income of the Fund, social contributions from employees are 52%, i.e. About 240.5 billion dinars. What would make citizens very interested in this situation is the clarification of what I'm talking about, but I suppose it's pretty clear that with the fall of economic activity falling and the level of participation of these contributions, and therefore it is necessary to increase the allocation in the budget in order to maintain the current level of pensions. This means that the government is also planning a greater drop in economic activity, given the new position of the budget, but this is not clearly said. We'd like to know if it's true or not. These numbers contain economic mechanisms, but prime numbers, as you know, do not solve social and economic problems. We can assume what might happen if the economic downturn is even bigger. This position says it's possible. The increase in expenditures also of 29 billion dinars was paid by cutting transfers to other levels of government by about 15 billion dinars and that is one of the government's economic measures. The question is, is it a meaningful question – is this a reduction in transfers to other levels of government by about 15 billion dinars a comprehensive economic move? We think this means big problems with these levels of government to spend and secure a normal life in their environments. An increase of 29 billion, a reduction of 15 billion dinars, gives us plus 14 billion dinars. The question arises – where the remainder of 123 billion dinars is the increase in expenditure within division 12. The rest of the increase is within the scope of the heading – Treasury Administration, function 170, public debt transactions. Under this function, there is an increase in expenditure on economic classification 611, which is the main payment to domestic lenders by 102.6 billion dinars. Also, growth in the economic classification of domestic interest payments, to skip these classification numbers, does not mean anything to the citizens, this is 5.6 billion dinars and these are the figures that explain an increase in expenditure of 123 billion dinars and confirm the attitude we talked about today, and this is about short-term government borrowing of over one billion euros. That in the short term, of course, it shows a rise in the cost of paying interest to domestic lenders. What Dr Miljkovic also acknowledges and notes in Article 2, that 80 billion dinars are from business banks, and the rest of the state plans to achieve through the sale of three-month state records of value. The auction plan for these charters by the end of the year averages four auctions a month, and in the last few auctions, the state recorded a 100% realisation and thus provided slightly less than three billion dinars per auction. In principle, there is nothing disputed, however, the question remains why does the state do so? To clarify - does this mean that the state plans, if it truly believes that economic measures will maintain the level of economic activity, thus the level of projected total tax revenues? I'm sure we'll hear it in the end and Mrs Dragutinovic. Of course, we've been talking all these days about the criticism of the government's austerity measures. From one stop, it is likely that it is economically and mathematically acceptable to speak in terms of savings, however, we do claim that it is totally unacceptable, given everything that we have presented today as a concrete data, let's say a 15 billion-dollar transfer to local self-government, and then a reduction in the costs of public enterprises, by paying 100% of their own to all public enterprises will provide a budget savings of five billion dinars. And also, when we talked about reducing the cost of RZO, not to repeat, we heard, the persons who have no way of providing themselves with existence will be greatly threatened by these measures. What we have to say is that all of this is happening in the period when it was seen that the reform course was not becoming, that it was becoming truly irrelevant and irresponsible spending of budgetary resources, that privatisation revenues were not used in full capacity, that we don't really know what transparent spending of budgets looks like. For example, the foreign debt of the state grew dizzy, in 2000 it was $10 billion in 2008, $28.6 billion. The enormous responsibility of the economy and the population has also been established. In domestic banks, the population owes about 400 billion dinars or 4.3 billion euros, the economy owes 876 billion dinars or 9.2 billion euros. Businesses owe 47 billion dinars or about 500m euros, total debt in banks is about 1,323,000,000 dinars or about 14 billion euros. The external debt of the Republic of Serbia is around 21.5 billion euros. The foreign debt to banks is about 35.5 billion euros, or about 5,000 euros per capo, or per citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If this debt is converted into an average salary, it turns out that each citizen must allocate 15 average earnings to settle commitments to banks and abroad. The huge foreign trade deficit, which increased year-on-year in 2001, amounted to 2,837,000,000 euros, a foreign trade deficit of 8,152,000,000 euros, a huge balance of payments deficit, was reached in 2008. Current transfers, comparisons due to 2001 – 977m euros, and in 2008, the deficit was 6,173,000,000. When it comes to the deficit in PIO and health insurance funds, the current commitment of citizens and legal entities to the PIO fund is about 35 billion dinars. What we are predicting is that this will be very difficult to collect because of the inequitable nature of the economy and the inability to make forced collection with citizens. These are also problems in which the state will go west, as at one point citizens will not be able to meet all the obligations that the state has made before them. Also, the downsizing of employees. We heard today, based on a statement by Mr Dinkic, that 2.5 thousand people are out of work a month. A huge deficit of budget funds rising year after year, huge public spending, 2,000-eight thousand people, 2008-28 thousand people. Drastic impoverishment of the population. The consumer basket is about 1.27 average salaries. The real decline in the average salary in 2007 is 435 euros, and these are data that are unwittingly saying that we think that the government will not be able to meet what this budget rebalance predicts and that it will not be able to provide both economic and social security for citizens. You will deny us, but this is our belief. What we really want to remind ourselves of, I think that's the example that should be talked about most often and often repeated, is an example of solidarity at times like this. I have the impression that the opposition, in the first place of the SRS, did not start to talk about receiving directors about public enterprises, that they would never remember themselves, nor the state, to intervene in that sense. We're not saying that these people wronged the law, but that the climate was created within which these people earned astronomical amounts. It is unacceptable that, several months ago, when the collapse of the financial system of the world happened, we had the fact that Mr. Kristo, JP Director of "Nikola Tesla", made around 20,000 euros, Mrs. Zelec, director of the Central Register, about 15,000 euros, Mrs. Jeftimijevic, president of the NIS Management Board, about 6.5 000 euros, Milos Milankovic, director of the JP Elektro Network of Serbia, about 6,000 euros, Radovan Jelasic, about 5,000 euros. All MP groups received a letter from Mr Jelasic, which he meets the parliamentary groups that the reduction of salaries provided for by the NBS is an unconstitutional category and how we can understand that decision, that Mr Jelasic will not agree to the government's measures and that is the environment within which we are talking about what can lead to only one conclusion, that a certain part of which signifies financial and economic flows in the Serbian state still does not carry out Serbian interest. We talked about an arrangement with the IMF and other international financial institutions that proved not to be in favour of Serbia, the SAA, within the framework of this unilateral application of a 267m-euro trade agreement for Serbian citizens. I think he's talking about himself enough. The fact that we are the only country that thus enters into a trade agreement with the EU also speaks enough. Mrs Dragutinovic will most likely answer the question of who is in favour of this unilateral application of the Trade Agreement. Our beliefs are that it goes in favor of Mr. Miskovic and the Delta, and we've talked about it all these days. At the end of the rest of the time, what I would also like to say for the end, I hope that this debate today was based on arguments and that you understood this, of course, as a political vision of the SRS. Our political belief is that he's chosen a really wrong path, that path costs us, we haven't recovered on that path, we don't have an economy that meets good standards, on the contrary, we have a lot of problems because someone has been irresponsiblely treating Serbia's resources for years. We believe that for the state of Serbia the only correct path is market compatibility, so the path of the East. If that were true, it was even confirmed, I couldn't believe my ears, so I consulted the stenograms, Mr Dinkic, the other day when he was present here, so he said - who knows when we'll be a member of the EU and that's why it's not bad to turn to Russia, Belarus, to make an agreement with the Eastern countries. That's what we've been talking about all along, but if it wasn't just our story, testifying and, according to the latest surveys published, 65% of citizens also believe that Serbia is on the wrong track. So, even the things we're talking about today, they don't have to know, they don't have to understand, they just live badly for that bad life, or someone's gotta be responsible for survival. In this context, the story of this responsibility can only be borne by executive authority. Now, like I said... (President: National MPs, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. Let me just finish my sentence. So this situation is not the first situation in our history, we hope to learn lessons and finally think about Serbia's economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18305	The word has a finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18306	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, thank you for all the opinions you have given during today's session. Many of them are useful to me, but I don't agree with many, and I will try as briefly as possible to answer some of the questions asked, perhaps all or most of them, but also to show and express why I disagree with some opinions. This is the third budget in the last eight or nine months, but I also think to the one that reminds me clearly that for the third budget in 10 months there were more objective than really subjective reasons. So the objective reason is that there were elections, that a new government was formed with completely different priorities and they couldn't fit into the old government budget. This is normal practice in the world, new governments usually bring new budgets. The second thing is the impact of the global financial crisis which was far greater, i.e. I feel it is far greater than expected. I'm an optimist by nature, but I think I'm making conservative projections. Of course, you can always criticise projections, so for economists, as an expert, there's a joke that they're experts talking about tomorrow why their forecast didn't come true today. That's because it's impossible to predict correctly. They can't even do natural sciences, especially social science, where what happens in the end is essentially the result of the decisions of a large number of economic actors. Finally, much more orderly countries have brought and brought at least two budgets, and some other countries that do not have rebalancing practices, some shocks, external shocks, economic shocks, bring programmes, special programmes adopted by parliaments, which are essentially rebalancing. So you can always criticise projections, but there are no exact projections. Also, our first arrangement with the IMF has been criticised. I'd like to remind you that of that money, whichever is small, 456m euros, we didn't withdraw a single euro. Then what was so unrealistic about it. Also, in this second programme, which will amount to three billion, it is possible not to withdraw a single euro, it is entirely possible. The interest is paid only on the withdrawn funds. Why was the platform late? Because when you negotiate with the IMF, you never ask for a certain amount in advance and they never offer a certain amount in advance. So, in the negotiations, the amount of credit is the result of a realistic insight into the situation, as someone said. Based on this realistic insight into the situation, which is usually done in three variants, a pessimistic variant has been chosen and the pessimistic variant says it is three billion. So this is the result of the negotiations, the result of the face-to-face of different projections and the real view of the situation. The IMF did leave three weeks ago, so it definitely stands, so they're gone, but it wasn't all agreed, because it didn't take or leave. You always have time to change something. I once said that you must have some degree of freedom. Something might be acceptable to the government, and something isn't. In that, I say, some inter-periode, the government has chosen some kind of variant that she thought was best. You don't have to agree with that, but I'll explain later why I think it's the best. Of the two MPs, both MPs of the opposition, I think one would be Mr. Maras, and the other was Mr. Popovic, I hope, I got two different qualifications. So, two men, both of them from the opposition, two completely opposite opinions. One said I was a pessimist, and the other said I was an optimist. I don't think the government has the right to be pessimistic, and neither do I as her representative, but I stand at the point of being always telling the truth, even if what you think is true. The truth is, there is no country in Europe that is now growing. The truth is, tax revenues are dropping, so they're lower, nominally lower than last year. The truth is that the level of public expenditure is high and the truth is that we can't finance such high public expenditures. So we need to adjust the consumption. It's not pessimism, it's facts, and when the truth is known, then it's easier to plan. Also, someone said it was a recession budget, I think so, Mr. Popovic. This can't be budget recessions, like any budget that as its final result has a deficit. In which the deficit is not small, it is 3% DP. Not only that, public spending isn't small. You're all criticizing that public spending is high. I don't like public spending high, and I agree with you criticizing that public spending is high. We have high public spending, we have a 3% deficit and someone says it's budget recessions. So the deficit budget can't be recessions. Also, we know that May 31st follows the payment of foreign savings. It's not a classic payment, it's a payoff of some old debts. At that point, it's a huge increase in liquidity. From that payment, which averages between 220m and 250m euros, 50% ends in consumption, 50% is kept in banks or investors. So it's going to be an additional incentive to grow demand. In previous years, I did not like the day when foreign currency savings were paid, because I knew how much liquidity and any pressure on inflation there was on the very fact that you suddenly invested in the consumption of 220m euros. I'm looking forward to it this time. It will definitely increase the liquidity of our system. Also, a solution to JP Roads debt. There's a lot of problems, that's what's up. JP Roads has a debt of 20 billion dinars, approximately. Debts are slightly higher, but for 20 billion dinars, the state gave a guarantee. Negotiations are ending and this will also increase liquidity in our system. You know that in the budget there is a guarantee issued by JP Roads for unregulated liabilities from the previous period. The tax hike has been criticised and the particular fact that we have increased consumption taxes. There are basically only two groups of taxes: consumption taxes and production factors taxes. If you already have to raise your rates, and I'm still standing at the point that tax rates are not high in Serbia and that, looking at tax rates, we are tax-competitive, so if you have to increase tax rates, and you have to, it's always better to do it on consumption taxes, therefore, on excise taxes. I agree that cigarettes here are the cheapest in Europe. It is also easy to see from the data on the production, i.e. the consumption of cigarettes. So, unusually large consumption growth means that many countries in the region buy cigarettes here. It's not a classic export, it comes, it's a compartment, etc. The consumption of cigarettes is high, prices are low, but excise policy was part of the deal when the tobacco industry was being sold. We can criticise this deal now, we can consider that someone has damaged someone, but since we are a serious state, all previous agreements should be respected. As the excise policy is agreed on by an action plan in the sale of the industry and as it is drawn for the period until 2012, we will adhere to these action policies and excise policies, and only change it with the agreement of the industry. I think that's how it's supposed to work for a serious country. Although I appreciate and love Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's amendments very much, I do not really agree with her when it comes to the government's borrowing. Otherwise, similar positions on government borrowing have both the Radical and Advanced Party. I know there's a saying "he's a bad friend" and "if you're in charge, you're not free." Deploying the state is a perfectly normal thing. There's no state that doesn't. You can be in debt as a country on the domestic market, you can be in debt on the foreign market, in the short term, in the long term, it's just all a matter of measures – how much to be in debt. There are standards, so they say: no more than 60%. There are standards of what a cautious state is, so it's said: 40% of the social product, and then, in our case, our country has a public debt below 30% of the social product. So our country is not in charge, it has a place to borrow, and that space should be used for different kinds of incentives. Large projects cannot be financed otherwise than by borrowing. So, when you're in charge, you do it for big projects, so you don't just leave your kids with debts, but also your property. What Marina Ragush noticed, I would like to point out this time, is that this budget for me was personally very difficult, but it doesn't have to concern you, because for the first time, perhaps more for methodological reasons, some completely unstandard things have been done. So, for the first time, we take over or re-route budget users' funds, use for normal budget stuff, first use the profit of 100 percent of public enterprises. Furthermore, what we also do for the first time is more significant use of short-term borrowings. So it's not questionable that the state can be in charge, it's all countries, it's a matter of measures. This time we do it at the beginning -- to borrow in the short term on the domestic financial market. Why in the short term? So in order to develop the domestic financial market, you first start from the short term, so when it works without a problem, and it all works better, hopefully, then you move on to the longer-term financing of the country from the domestic financial market. The very amount of payment, which has been criticised etc, is essentially the result of budget accounting and booking methods. The actual increase in short-term debt, meaning funding deficits with values charter emissions, will not be greater than 40 billion. The budget is maximum. But since it's a short deadline and it's all turning around -- you're broadcasting securities once, it's your receipt, and then you're returning it, and you're broadcasting it, all in all, there's some double bills in it, but that's budget accounting. Funding short-term debt deficits will not exceed 40 billion dinars. Is the NBS debt public debt? I can tell you what standards are. Anyone can think that the standard might not be good. Then let's change the standard. But when the state is seen as a sector, the state is never consolidated with the central bank. It's nowhere to be found. Also, when it comes to public debt, you can consider the NBS to be a state and definitely is a state institution, but the fact is that this debt has nothing to do with public spending, and it has nothing to do with private spending. It's just foreign reserve support. So my answer is that it's not a public debt. It has been criticised that reduced investment for Corridor 10. They are definitely budget funds, I'll explain the reasons later, but the least important source of funding for Corridor 10 is budget funds. You can't finance such a big project with budgets. So, I repeat, there are other much more important sources that are not reduced, but are even increased, and these are project loans from international financial institutions and these are guarantees that the state gives to the JP "Trains of Serbia" for the railway corridor. That amount is extremely impressive. When we talk about the role of the state and the priority of the state of Corridor 10, just looking at budgets, I don't think it's fair. What kind of budget is this? This is again a budget that no one is satisfied with. And somewhere I read it wasn't bad that nobody was happy. It's a much harder situation that there's an interesting group that isn't satisfied. Is he responding to the real situation? You always have a choice. So at the time of lack of funds, there's definitely a liquidity problem. You have a choice of how to shape public consumption. The choice is to give an advantage: to protect living standards, I mean wages, pensions, social benefits or so on. discretionary expenses. When I say what to give priority to, what less to reduce. The government made a choice and she said - we'll protect the standard of living as long as we can. So we had to cut discretionary expenses. Again, when you need to reduce discretionary expenses, you have an alternative again. What do you want to do? You can give up something big or you can take it from something a little bit. The government has chosen from everything a little bit. Seems fair to me. You, of course, don't have to agree with that. Everyone wants justice, but there's a little consensus on the meaning of that word. To many people this means that someone else should pay for it, but in reality it means that everyone should pay something in line with their options. Therefore, there was no linear reduction, there was a linear reduction in discretionary expenditures, of all things a little. It was the government's choice. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic compared the 2002 and 2008 budgets in euros. I can only say and the real difference is impressive. A few things I'd like to simply share with you, no matter what he personally thinks public spending is high and, right to tell you, I think in this crisis it'll be easier to reduce public spending than if it were another time. Public spending is not measured by the number of ministers, especially by comparing the 2002 and 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Public consumption is measured by the participation of public consumption in the social product. Unfortunately, changes are common here, so budgets vary greatly in methodological terms. These two budgets are completely incomparable and it's just not fair to keep pointing out that one budget is four times bigger than the other, and I need to say it. What's the difference? First, the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. For years he did not contain the very important functions he now contains, did not contain the military, did not contain diplomacy, did not contain customs and so on. These functions have all gone from a federal level to a republican budget. So it's just that it's not comparable. The second big thing is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 and 2009 is practically transferred to social security funds, primarily to the PIO Fund. Look at the size of those transfers. In 2002, the budget did not transfer any money. The funds were supported by contributions. It really doesn't make sense to compare these two budgets, but it makes sense to compare public spending of a consolidated state and all levels of government. Although there are criticisms that the budget is too large, there are also criticisms that say why only 3% of the deficits. It was a matter of government MPs, which I tried to answer, but there were no interested. Since interest today is slightly higher, I'd say next. We didn't have the size of the deficit imposed by the IMF, because that's the opposite of the theory. When you're in crisis you need to have a deficit and you don't need to limit it. There are two things that impose a restriction, and that's your level of public spending, and it's big, and funding opportunities. He's so big because we can't afford him anymore. The vulnerable categories of the population will not be left without health care. As they were treated before, without changing the law and without these transfers, they will be treated now. No one's going to lose their health care. Why do I think it was kind of okay to cut transfers to the Health Insurance Fund this time? Because their incomes were higher, significantly higher, and this corresponds to this amount of transfer, because twice in 2008 there was an emergency pension adjustment. With the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, you are increasing the transfers from the pension fund to the Health Insurance Fund, and on this basis they have had an unplanned growth in income that this year can, due to the transferred effect, cover the lack of these transfers. Local level and Vojvodina. Indeed, the government's intention wasn't to violate the Constitution. But there's a lot of indiscretion. When you say the Vojvodina budget should be 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, you have no definition of what the budget is. We can all think about what the budget is, but we need to define 7% of what it is. The budget is both productive and cost-effective. The future side of this year has an awful lot of unusual elements. This one unusual element is the own revenues of the budget users. If the AP Vojvodina budget, amounting to 46 billion, were compared with the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is exactly 7%. As for local levels and the fact that this 15 billion will likely have terrible consequences for the lives of local self-government, I have to say that we need to look at what's actually reducing. I like to look at municipalities as a whole, local self-government as a whole, and that's the order of consumption of 190 billion dinars, and 15 billion of those 190, at a time when incomes fall, there has to be a measure of giving up local self-government. The fact that if local self-government behaves the same way the Republic of Serbia's budget behaves, however much it is criticised, there is no profit growth. There's the savings. No employment growth, there's savings. Twenty-six percent reduction in discretionary expenditures, what is not the law, what you decide, what are programs, it follows that it was possible to reduce transfers even more. Of course, the Serbian government has different scenarios and of course the Serbian government will protect the poorest municipalities. Mr Aligrudic had a very inspired exposure when he said that nobody believes in these measures, he does not believe, that they are too late, etc. He can't believe it, he's got some people who believe it, and it's hard to believe at all when you haven't seen a measure like that get the country out of the crisis. What do I mean? When you say the measures are too late, there are probably examples of countries that are not too late. If there are examples, I'd like to know which countries are not too late and what they've done with their timely actions. I don't think we're too late. I think you know that the crisis started as a financial crisis, that it began as a result of the poor capital adequacy of the financial sector, that the situation was completely different with us and that the first packages of the measure were financial, which means saving banks and financial institutions, which is not the case with us at all, given that the banking sector as a whole achieved a profit of 32 billion dinars. To finish, I apologize if I missed something, for specific questions about different divisions, I can give answers to our recent meetings. I liked Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's message. He said there's a door missing somewhere, assuming a door for co-operation. The door is open, the door is supported by this budget, because your support for this budget means that the consolidation of public expenditure has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-24-0.u18307	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right under Article 93? No, I don't. ) If not, I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2009 Financial Plans, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing of Goods, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taxation of Income of Citizens, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act amending the Act on Excises, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, the Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Restricting and Debtation of Debt on Contribution to Mandatory Health Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on Temporary Reduction of Salaries, i.e.e. This is what we do for today, and we continue our work on Monday, April 27, at 1200 hours. The explanation for 12.00 hours is the application of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the care of harmonised work bodies. During the weekend, the government of the Republic of Serbia will consider the amendments submitted. During the afternoon, the committees in charge will consider the amendments, so we will begin working on the principle debate on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation, after which we will move to a debate on the amendments. Thank you, everyone. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 104 MPs. In order to determine the number of present in the hall, Members of Parliament, please, shall exchange their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The electronic system refreshes information from MPs every three seconds, so that you can monitor, this time and on large monitors, the way it registers parliamentary cards in the voting units. After recording 84 cards, how much minimum number is needed for the daily quorum or the work of the Assembly, we should hear a sound signal. It's gone without a sound signal, but you can see that there are 86 MPs present right now, which means we have the quorum needed to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Željko Ivanji, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudić and Branko Ružić. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly President, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the meeting to attend, apart from the proposing representatives, Stanimir Vukicevic, State Secretary at the Foreign Ministry and Momirka Marinkovic, assistant foreign minister. Also the National Assembly President, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for part of the session, in which we will conduct a search in particulars, to attend on the 1st point of the agenda of Vuk Djokovic and Dr. Slobodan Ilic, state secretaries at the Ministry of Finance and Ružica Stojiljkovic, assistant director at the Treasury Office. On the occasion of item 5 of the agenda, Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice, were invited. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Conditions of Loans of the State of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. I remind you, according to Article 152, paragraph 3 and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, and the proportion of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, and so that the MP group for European Serbia is available - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once every five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they have immediately filed a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Nenad Popovic, the DSS parliamentary group. According to Article 152, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. At this time of the session, the question arises whether the word of Proposer Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, wants to speak? He's not in the O.R. The word, based on article 100 on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, was sought by MP Dragan Shormaz.
