ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33214	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move on to the opening session, only a brief notification - there has been an error in the electronic system, a system for registration of MPs and voting systems, and today's session will begin in the Rules of Procedure by establishing the quorum by counting, and the MPs who want to speak about their amendments or to use the time of the parliamentary group, or the authorised president or representative, will speak for the speaker of the National Assembly. (In the break, the representatives of the Service count the MPs present. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on my official record, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. Today we begin also under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, only in several technical and organisational circumstances, since we were reported this morning that the electronic system for voting and registration of MPs is not in place. It will be determined for what reasons. We will determine the quorum by counting the MPs present in the hall, and all MPs who want a word in search in particular, regardless of whether the applicants are amendments or using the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group... I ask the People's Messengers for peace in the O.R., as we begin the session. Therefore, all MPs who wish to use the right to use the right to speak, will benefit from that right by speaking after the speaker of the National Assembly. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the National Assembly to count the MPs present in the hall and to provide the chairman with the number of MPs present in the hall. I ask the Service to enter the O.R. and count the MPs present in the hall fortify the quorum. [[Short break.]] I ask the National Assembly's service to determine by counting the number of MPs present in the O.R. This is a business provision on the determination of quorum, which has not been used in the National Assembly Hall for quite a long time, and has been going on longer than usual. (A brief break in which representatives of the National Assembly Service count the members of the National Assembly present. ) I also ask the MPs for special silence during today’s session, since the microphones in office are not microphones, which each MP has for himself. Any noise, the conversation will interfere, both the MP who uses the pay phone and the transmission, or the sound of tones and TV broadcasts. Break. The chairman of the bell invites the MPs to enter the O.R. ) I find that the number of MPs found that 83 and the president of the National Assembly, 84 MPs, are present in the hall right now. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Riza Halimi, Elvira Kovac, Momo Colaković, Aleksandra Jankovic, Željko Tomic and Nikola Lazic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is on the basis of a search in detail on the 25th and 26th points of the agenda, and according to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, called for the meeting to be attended by Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Luka Andric, adviser to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We move to the 25th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE STECHAN (resuming in particular) On yesterday's working day, we stopped to search the details of the amendment to Article 34, which was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Before I ask if anyone wants a word, I would like to inform the National Assembly that time is available to parliamentary groups after the search in particular: PUPS has the total time of the mandated representative and the parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of minorities also and the authorised representative and president of the parliamentary group, the MP group of New Serbia – used the time of the authorised representative, the time available is 10 minutes, LDP has the total time available and authorised representatives and MPs, the MP group of SPS – JS has the time available of the authorised representative and 15 minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, the MP group Advanced Serbia – used time of authorised representatives, and the parliamentary group has 11 minutes at its disposal, the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group has total time and 50 seconds of time on the terms of the GP group and the second group of representatives of the Slavlar group and the second group ofrepresentatives , and the second group of representatives of the group of the group of the Slavlarians and the group of the group ofrepresentatives , and the group of representatives of the group of representatives of representatives of the group of the group of theS. Since the electronic system prevents all of us from tracking the electronic clock on the monitors in the O.R., time will be measured by the deputy secretary, and may be monitored on the clock on the wall. If I ask if you want a word, in this case, because the electronic voting system doesn't work, then I ask you to sign up for the word by raising your hand. The word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure is sought by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here, you have a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27, Section 1 point 5. I'm really calling on the President of the Assembly to finally determine what's going on with the electronic system that's been given a huge amount of money. Huge money was given, among other things, I warned yesterday that one of the people involved in this job, Milivove Vicentijevic, was reinstated in the workplace. He probably celebrated his new job at 63 and probably confused the buttons this morning, and that's why what's happening to us today is happening to us. This is really the bottom of the bottom. What does this congregation look like? When are you going to clear up with this electronic system? How can we trust and make sure that these calculations in some room down in the Serbian Parliament are really true, that you really have a quorum, that it really votes 126 or any number of MPs? What are you doing from this country? You're receiving a 63-year-old man who's the main culprit for this electronic system. Was it not enough for you that Ubpok had been investigating this for several months? Probably, thanks to someone's orders, those papers were put in the drawer. You know, you have all the information, but you're not interested in it at all. You're only interested in one crime being filled with other crime, so that you'll forget about it first. The Prime Minister criticises the ministers, about as if he's criticizing ministers in a South American state there, as if he doesn't live here. Where are your ministers from? What about the report...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33216	National MP, two minutes, please complete your presentation. There's no damage to article 27. On the contrary, while taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, today’s session began in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with all the business provisions, nor was there any argument in your mind to support the violation of Article 27. At present, there are violations of the Rules of Procedure since you are dropping out of place and violating Article 104 on the obligation of the Members of Parliament not to earn, to behave politely and to treat one another politely based on all the provisions of that Rules of Procedure that we often call upon. So the amendment was submitted to Article 34 by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic. Here's to the pay phone, time measurement starts from the moment the MP stops for a pay phone. Since I am obliged to assist the MPs of the people, if the MP Vladan Jeremic has not heard, colleagues advise you – slowly, slowly, slowly. I ask MP Momir Markovic not to throw it away. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is to Article 34 paragraph 8. A bill of bankruptcy, which is usually for those who may not have had the chance to get acquainted with it. So, the area relating to labour and cost rewards for bankruptcy managers, and the amendment stipulates that this 8th position -- the minister is closer to laying down the basics and criteria for determining the amount of the award and the cost of the bankruptcy manager -- is changing so that instead of the minister standing for the formulation – the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this amendment would practically implement a legal-technical correction, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia should otherwise be in charge of drawing up a sub-legislative act laying down the basics and criteria for determining the level of rewards and compensation for the work of the bankruptcy manager. Otherwise, when bankruptcy managers are at stake, you know that so far the practice and experience through the functioning of the bankruptcy law that has been in place for some four or five years in this particular area has shown the most inadequacy and we have also talked about the fact that there have been a lot of irregularities in the work, the selection of bankruptcy managers, and also one of our principles is that this draft bankruptcy law is not the best way to set it, and perhaps this most impressive example is that it is exactly how, in future, bankruptcy managers will be chosen under this new law. You know that this is now going according to the principle of some computer selection, but that probably, taught by the negative experience so far, in practice, there's going to be some kind of irregularities again, and in the sense that the same bankruptcy manager is chosen multiple times, and that whoever's supposed to be in control of all of this, that's the Senior Trade Court, will practically have his hands full. Some of the experiences in the environment speak precisely about the number of bankruptcy managers we have here, so in Serbia, compared to other countries and the efficiency of their work in a certain discrepancies, so that we believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of this amendment, not the minister as prescribed by the Bill, would need to avoid any potential problems that may arise in this area, as well as the criteria for determining the level of the prizes and compensation of the bankruptcy manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33218	It was used two minutes as an amendment applicant and one minute from the parliamentary group. The exhibition started at 10.26 and ended at 10.29. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I remind you to answer the word by raising your hand. The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33219	The amendment to the 34th Prescribing Group Advanced Serbia – the SNS has submitted for the reasons of implementing the consistency of the principles allegedly advocated by the applicant of this bill. It is said that, as a matter of fact, it wants to achieve the efficiency of the process. Article 34, otherwise, regulates the award for labour and cost compensation, where the minister says he is closer to prescribing the basics and criteria for determining the amount of reward and compensation. We want that amount of reward and compensation to be paid in connection with Article 5. The bill, where the principle of economicity is said to be implemented – that everything relating to the procedure should be implemented in as short a time as possible and at a minimum cost. Respected citizens, whether the less cost, as a result of the previous bankruptcy act, extends the introduction of a new caste of bankruptcy managers, who received hundreds of thousands of euros in the process they carried out not in the interest of calming down creditors, not in the interest of providing jobs for those who lost their jobs, but in the interest of those who sent them to carry out these bankruptcy proceedings. So, by wanting to implement the proposed intention of the legislator, we want it to be confirmed by law, by writing that efficiency and the lower costs primarily relate to the rewards and compensations of bankruptcy managers. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33220	It was used for two minutes on behalf of the applicant for the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33221	I ask the chairman, is it possible, since I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group amendments to Articles 43, 45 and 46, which are in sequence, to talk about all three amendments in a row, or am I not having a hard time getting off the phone and going back and using my time of two minutes? How do you want it? (President: Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow me. All right. We have submitted the amendment to Article 43 which, otherwise, speaks largely of the specificity of this law as a "lex of specialise", which I translate as a bankruptcy law, as a mistrial. Disabled to perform any audits in the bankruptcy process. To bring things closer to the citizens, we'll translate what it means. Whatever value you are entitled to in a bankruptcy procedure has been forgotten, disabled, questioned, you do not have a rule that is otherwise provided for by the laws of Serbia, that this right of protection. Only in the bankruptcy law there is no limit to a monetary claim in which you can say that one man decides on your rights, that he can make mistakes and that there is someone above him. According to this law, according to the government's behaviour and the State Auditing Institution's reports, the government thought there was only a beautiful blue sky above it and a God who doesn't see what it's doing. According to the bankruptcy law, such a type of independence or interpretation of the right is introduced, that it is not possible for anyone to submit a proposal to repeat the procedure or revision at all. We ask that the revision be possible for the value of disputes where there is a recognised and determined claim that exceeds 100,000 euros. I want to say what many of you don't know, maybe they didn't have a chance and God forbid they're never in a position to be wronged by the state through this law, but many citizens know that by law before the Supreme Court they can demand the protection of their rights, if that right is damaged, and their claim goes beyond the demand of 500,000 dinars. With this amendment, we ask that the revision be possible for, I say, determined claims of over 100,000 euros. Why is it important that there is an audit as a legal remedy? In the light of the good practice of not mentioning court proceedings and participants in them, I will mention one procedure currently pending, which concerns the tabled amendment and the practice which is intended to be established, which is that one creditor, who has established a bankruptcy claim, has acquired the right to property before another creditor. This led him to have a championship in the order of settlement, and this was as a separate trustee from the funds by selling the assets of the creditor. Its right is damaged by the conduct of bankruptcy authorities, the right to lack of audit is misused, and such a damaged creditor has applied for the protection of the legality of the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office and the procedure for reviewing the decision has been initiated. What I want to transfer to you from that document of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is this. I quote the text on the page. 4, which can be put to the attention of those who are interested in this, which is a failure and the illicit availability of a bankruptcy director is legalised by the adoption of a first-degree settlement on the main deboss and a second-degree solution on the rejection of the complaint by the resolution of the trustee as unauthorized. If a person decides by law that the appeal that has been established and that your rights are damaged is denied, your rights are denied, God is high, the country is hard, our people say, so go ahead, vote, fellow MPs, for such a bill of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33222	The total exposure time is five minutes, two minutes for the amendment and three minutes from the parliamentary group. The 45th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33223	Gentlemen and citizens, you see how lovable the procedure looks. Well, we'll see from next week how it strictly and strictly respected every minister's procedure when he spent money from a budget that was collected from yours, ours and a pair of all citizens for spending. We'll see if they were as jealous as they are today. Article 45 treats matter similar to the previous, where we have actually asked that Article 45 delete the provisions that read as follows: "No appeal or objection is allowed against the conclusion." It's like, to bring the MPs closer to you, when your right is violated, someone has slandered you, insulted you, misunderstood you, you say, "injuring the Rules of Procedure," and the chairman says, "no injured the Rules of Procedure," it's my discretion to understand how you interpret the violation of the Rules of Procedure or you don't have the right to replication, it's my discretion to decide if anyone has offended you, hurt you, no, no, they understand you well. This is in the bankruptcy law too. No complaint is allowed. It's -- you have no right to speak, you have no right to explain how your rights are violated. Paragraph 5 of the same article reads - if the conclusion contains an obvious technical or literal error, the bankruptcy judge, at the request of the bankruptcy manager, trustee or other interested party, shall, without delay, make corrections to the conclusion in order to remove the error. That's assuming form essentially. Only mistakes that are literal, failures, and not those that have a vital impact on your life can be corrected. And whoever does this - the bankruptcy judge, the one who forbids you to complain and the one who, in his own image, in his discretionary right, in his understanding of the law, justice and justice can refuse to object or say - I will correct the word, today I am in a good mood, and if I did not, who knows, and that error may cost you the proof of how long, expensive and who knows how much damage you would do. Avoiding the will of inadmissible discretion and what is called the inability to appeal, which otherwise the Serbian legal system does not support, we want to delete this amendment with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33224	The total exposure time is three minutes, two minutes of amendments and one minute from the time of the parliamentary group. The 46th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33225	I didn't go back to the scene, not because he hates me to walk, but because I want to use this time really useful, not by showing senselessness and respect for the procedure here can come across that countermeasure that I, as an opposition, also abuse the procedure. I would like to conclude with Article 46 of the debate on bankruptcy law as via the court, as the will of an individual chosen by the will of the minister of bankruptcy, which is contrary to the independence of the judiciary and the whole of the legal system of this country, the minister of economy and regional development, and not the minister of justice, which would mean by the nature of things, and that someone may, as provided for in Article 46, refuse the appeal, and when it is allowed against a solution through a first-degree court, whose judgment is that, the solution is reached within 30 days at the latest, but we are asking for the erasure of attitude 3, where it says: The appeal against the solution does not retain the execution of the solution if this law is not otherwise determined. This law is not different, and the appeal loses its full meaning, by not keeping the execution. Now that you're back on that article in 43 that I first explained in this set, where it says that you're not allowed to go back to the previous side, you don't need to know the rights, you need logic. When the complaint does not contain the execution, it does not matter what you are damaged, let the action cause damage to you, since there is no return to the previous situation in any long and expensive procedure you may prove you are right. In a litigation for which there is no limited duration, as it is for bankruptcy proceedings, what is it worth if the law adopts a provision that there is no return to the previous situation? A kind of totally illegal takeover of citizens' assets, decisions motivated not by general good but by certain personal and private interests, are legalised through a system of anti-legal regulations of Serbia, legal protection, two-stageness and application of rights that could protect trustees' interests. Let me remind you, in last night's discussion, we said that two-stage exists, but the point that stands for these formulations literally eliminates the possibility of this two-stage process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33226	The total exposure time is three minutes, for amendment two and a minute from the time of the parliamentary group. On the basis of Article 142. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the 40th, was submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, on Article 53(2), I have submitted an amendment to the New Serbia parliamentary group to add the words "second row" behind the words "as bankruptcy creditors", and at the end of the sentence to add the words "unless they are connected to persons with a creditor". Of course, the government has not accepted this amendment. The explanation is extremely unclear, illogical, and whenever some amendment that opposition MPs, in this case New Serbia, submit an amendment, is one of the reasons that large abuses are possible. Namely, the argument says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the said member only defines the existence of third parties who can take part in the bankruptcy procedure, their status as creditors. The issue of their classification in payment order shall be settled in accordance with the general rule. Any other solution would represent the possibility of numerous abuses. So very vague and illogical, like I said. At all, this bankruptcy law has a lot of illogicality. In practice, this will be demonstrated, especially when the word is in the part where practically abolishing the bankruptcy council and everything is resolved by the individual judge and here and when it comes to bankruptcy managers who can practically conduct procedures that are extremely complex. There was room and reason that in some parts of the law it could survive, but in that part, I think it was necessary to build up, so when there were large amounts, when there were serious bankruptcy proceedings, it had to be put in place that bankruptcy managers could conduct such actions by those who had been checked, who had experience. For some smaller amounts, it is also okay for the judge to be an individual, but for serious, large amounts, when there are very basic doubts that they may be abuses, it should have remained bankruptly higher, because we saw when the minister practically defended this law, he said that the judge would have a huge responsibility, to take all the risks from bankruptcy proceedings, which brings such an individual judge into an unequal position, practically that if he did not like that bankruptcy manager from the basic order that he could take responsibility for himself. It's not right, and that's exactly the kind of thing that's gonna lead to a lot of abuse. The judge will not be practically in a position to adequately decide, but rather to deal more with whether or not he is a competent bankruptcy manager. So, once again, there was room to be in such a way, at all, that's the basic point in this practically law, because you have an example in football, so in basketball, you know exactly who judges the first league, who judges the second league, who judges the third league. Well, you can't have a judge in some third-, fourth-stakes sport who suddenly judges some big derby. It is a small parallel to this, to explain to Serbian citizens that it is totally unacceptable for serious cases to be solved by bankruptcy managers without experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33228	Three minutes and 45 seconds. Two minutes used for the amendment and the rest of the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 54 by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33229	The amendment to Article 64 speaks very vividly of at least three interesting phenomena. First I'll tell you what the essence of the amendment to Article 64 is. Article 64 provides that municipal public undertakings and others providing services of general interest, electricity, water, heating, etc. cannot suspend the exposure, the delivery of those services, although the creditor remains liable to them for not paying those services who know during what period, because before a proposal to launch a bankruptcy procedure, which is the beginning of history, is a matter for them. So, the government decides, the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, who of this law becomes the minister responsible for bankruptcy, so we're going to tell the minister of bankruptcy, pick a bankruptcy manager who goes to a company or does reorganise or liquidate the company, depends on what order he was given, mainly at those tight party meetings, where there are no criteria, because the question is how much of a threat of liquidity is assessed, we don't know that, etc., but when he comes to that bankruptcy enterprise that he opens up, public utility companies must continue to deliver their services. When I discussed this as a problem in principle, someone said, even outside of this pay phone, but it was in the former law. I must mention that yesterday, my colleague from the SRS, the Propheta Radeta, rightly said that this is not the Constitution to continue, develop or implement this provision in practice. The fact that an earlier bankruptcy law had this provision does not mean that it is fair, necessary and that it should continue in the next law which, I can say freely, is even worse than before. Why? If a public undertaking engaged in the delivery of a service of general interest continues to deliver a service to someone who has not been paid, it creates conditions for that public undertaking to become over-indebted, threatening indifference or some of the conditions that might result in bankruptcy, as well as miracles, the Government says in some previous regulation in this law that bankruptcy cannot be opened either against agencies, how they operate and how much they work in the interests of citizens or quite certain individuals or groups. It must not concern you, citizens, because when these public enterprises have losses because they do not charge for the supply of services of general interest, well, there is, gentlemen, the budget, it will settle the losses of public enterprises, these public enterprises will be found to the government and the authorities to help where they need to get some votes, show strength, force, well-being, etc. It is unacceptable that you, a public company, which must provide services to all to avoid being put into a situation that, for example, increases the price of your services because it has outstanding claims from some creditors in the previous period, puts it in a situation that only your interest and your will is God's law that determines the behaviour in this country. That it is thus confirmed by the fact that it was possible not to pay taxes and contributions, but to pay salaries and then the state comes out with a solution to forgive those debts on behalf of funds that are otherwise financed from the budget. Do not present to us your will and your well-meaning which is an obvious abuse of the right to decide on spending money. You cannot selectively determine whom debts will be forgiven and who will not pay in time. Can a Serbian citizen when he doesn't pay the bill to say - forgive me that debt from one year ago, as of today, I'll start paying the bills? Let the one you've given permission to report to. Is a citizen as an individual, as the center of this democracy's world less valuable than that bankrupt debtor you evaluated worthy of? This is why this amendment needs to be adopted, and a pointless argument that such a solution has been in the previous law and that no municipal enterprise has been in trouble. It didn't get in trouble because it has a budget from which you fill all the holes you make with your selective and illegal behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33230	The total exposure time is five minutes and 20 seconds. It was spent two minutes for the amendment and three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33231	When it's two minutes past, I'd like you to let me know, that I'm not wasting my time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33232	Shall I let you know when it's two minutes per amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33233	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 68(1). The bill, or the whole chapter, refers to the opening of a bankruptcy procedure, hearings and before the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings, and I really don't understand it logically if we want those negative experiences that we have in practice so far, and about the duration of the bankruptcy procedure, to change some things here, which we have tried to amend, that this does not come under the approval of the promoter. Because this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, provides that if a previous bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, the bankruptcy judge shall appoint a hearing to discuss the existence of a bankruptcy ground for opening up a bankruptcy procedure no later than, and now this number of 30 days from the date of receipt of the proposal to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings, we have suggested that the deadline be reduced to 15 days, to be split. We therefore believe that this would have an overall impact on the shortening of the bankruptcy process. However, the amendment has not been accepted, because, as the 15-day deadline states, it is too short to carry out all the actions provided for in the previous procedure. Then we will likely come into a situation where we still have such cases, that our bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia last significantly longer than in OECD countries or countries that you could hear during yesterday's discussion, how much longer compared to the countries that I mentioned, and even in the surrounding countries. By not accepting this amendment, which we had the best intention of contributing as much as we could to shorten this process, namely that the torments that companies and employees in them are as soon as possible resolved...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33234	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33235	This Article is also from the same area, which concerns the length of the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. the concrete solution to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure and the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 70(5). The bill of words – 120 days, replaced by words – 60 days. It was precisely the meaning and essence of this previous amendment that certain legal and technical corrections would reduce the time limit for the submission of the application and, in the view of the SRS parliamentary group, the overall duration of the procedure would be reduced. However, like the previous amendment, this amendment has also not been accepted, as it says – as a deadline of 30 to 120 days has given sufficient guidance to the court to decide on the fullness of the deadline for the claim on each particular case. The deadline for the application was the subject of many discussions during the public debate, related to the draft law and the proposed formulation prescribes a deadline in the way in which most of the expert public agreed and the trust itself. The deadline shall be sufficiently flexible to allow the court, in a specific case, and depending on the complexity of the case and the number of trustees' structure, to set an appropriate time limit for the application without jeopardising either the effectiveness of the procedure, nor the rights and position of the creditors. In the event of the existence of foreign creditors, a 60-day deadline would be too short for them to notify and report a claim. I can repeat what I just said, that the experience in practice and the draft law, which is essentially not different from the one we've had so far, obviously does not give us the right to believe that bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia will be more effective, i.e. that it will last shorter. There is indeed a light on this, so during the discussion of one of the next amendments, which is also from this area, I will be able to present some of the concrete examples concerning the length of the bankruptcy proceedings in Serbian firms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33236	Two minutes and 20 seconds. Since the time of the parliamentary group, 20 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33237	Article 72(2) The bill also refers to a time distance, and we have amendedly tried to shorten the provisions contained in the Bill's proposal, as regards the hearing. As provided for in the draft law, the hearing will be held within a period of not less than 30 days and longer than 60 days within the day of the expiry of a specific application decision. So this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, is, in fact, an attempt to reduce the time limit for maintaining the trial hearing by means of legal-technical correction and thus to reduce the duration of the procedure overall. However, like the previous ones, it is the same fate and all the other amendments we have submitted. The amendment has not been accepted, as the applicant considers that it is sufficient time for the court's guidance to assess the deadline for holding the hearing, to decide in each particular case. Yesterday you were witnesses and the public who could hear it, and unfortunately those who were directly involved in all the bankruptcy proceedings we had in Serbia. Perhaps what is most impressive is certainly bankruptcy proceedings in once large and successful firms, such as "The Slave House of Belgrade" or "Beko", where many years of bankruptcy take place. Unfortunately, many people, protests of employees, etc. former employees of these companies. However, just because of such and similar provisions of the law, it is clear that there is still no solution to the bankruptcy that is being implemented in the construction company "Rad" and which may be the most complicated case that has been initiated under the still valid Banking Procedure Act. There's been a lot of words and still, even though a few bankruptcy managers have changed. The bankruptcy has been going on for eight years. Practically, there are no solutions, and there's a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33238	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used. 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the citizens of Serbia who are currently following the regular session of this Serbian Parliament, Mrs Komic, seems to me that the debate on the subject of bankruptcy is a good motive to talk about and to launch the topic of what is most often avoided and to move along the path that is most rare, and as regards the dignity of the citizens, those who have never actually had the opportunity to achieve what the Constitution requires and the status itself belong to the citizens of the second or third order. It's just amazing that the government in Serbia has not raised a question for 10 years that is actually most interesting, and is referring to the bankruptcy mafia. It is also very interesting that because of the abuse of certain rights in front of the public, and we have had opportunities from previous counterpart Mr. Jeremic to hear examples, such as large Serbian companies. No one was essentially responsible for the concrete kidnapping of labour rights, for specific injuries, so the working legal status of people, who obviously have no one to turn to, because the institutions in this country de facto don't function, but only their social justice is sought on the streets of the capital and in a way that they strike, starve, and that everyone turns, those who are at least own to solve their problem, head to the other side. The bankruptcy story, also, along with the terrible crime rate, raises another very big question. Where is the answer to the elite, the authorities to answer the question of all those people who have lost their jobs and have no way of earning their existence? We have one situation where the SRS will also talk, and let's just say it's in an indirect relationship with bankruptcy, and it is actually criminal privatisation. We, some of our internal analyses, because unfortunately the state made differences in certain methodologies, came to this pyramidal structure, which definitely points to organized crime in the state of Serbia, where apparently someone took it upon himself to be right, because he had the support of the government or some of the authorities, I'm not saying that everyone, there are honest people, but we need to investigate it, we need to tell this people -- who's responsible for taking the right to live a man? Who is responsible for these people who have worked and installed their work in these social enterprises and have lost the right to be treated, to feed their families and the right to live a life of worthy men? These are victims of the transition and victims of organised crime in the state of Serbia. We took certain measures and tried to access certain specific data based on secondary sources, which were available to us. A book has been published, which you will have opportunities for, let's say it is a white book of crime concerning both bankruptcy and privatisation. Soon will fellow MPs be able to own the book and see how the economy and life of Serbian citizens have been systematically destroyed? Of course, we're not just going to give the setting - what did this elite government allow? We'll go to a specific name and name. Why? Because Serbian citizens deserve such an approach. I hope that we will be allowed to speak to the end, hopefully again, about all those who robbed Serbia in someone's name. Let's see who it is. Who's the real boss of Serbia? Who allowed such companies to go bankrupt? Who actually rules Serbia and this very political scene of Serbia? Is that Miskovic? How could Miskovic grow so much and how could a monopoly happen to one man? Is that Beko, is that Junic? So, for what is currently happening in Serbia, for the atmosphere of fear and atmosphere -- that only those who are at will can earn money. Only those in direct contact with the authorities can collect their claims. Let's talk about something that's public secret. Let's talk about all the students who strike, because they have no place to pay their tuitions, which are extremely high, and in return they get nothing. Let's talk about all those who are now in the epidemic of this flu being in a situation where they can't be treated because they don't have health insurance. Let's talk about health workers who are clay pigeons, because they work under inhuman conditions. Let's finally open the question -- who, very thoughtfully, systematically, destroys this Serbia? Let's start with something, to establish a consensus, regardless of the political color, to get the strength to tell people there's hope -- that there are people here who can fight for the life of a decent man in Serbia, to convince these young people that after college they should stay in Serbia. This people need real people, and you, unfortunately, are going beyond the borders of this Serbia. Why? Because no affair, no corruption has been brought to an end. If there is a brutal arrest in front of the cameras, it is because some of the monopolies are behind the takeover of a sports club or a company -- it is Serbia where we all live, Serbia in which we all are forced to work. If we just come from the definition of "forced labour", employees in Serbia, therefore, have no right, have no equal chance, the possibility of achieving their labour rights. In Serbia, therefore, there is forced labour in front of the eyes of the entire government elite. In Serbia, an employed man, a working population, there is no one to protect. In Serbia, people have no right to be treated. In Serbia, fear of death is greater - fear of unemployment. The question really is for all of us, and I may look like my colleagues from the left position of the political center, which is what I'm talking about, but it's really a question for all of us -- where's the lower limit? Are we really going to put up with all this happening in Serbia? Or you will compromise with your conformism, turn your head to the other side, fund your families, you live well, and here - citizens run the streets of this city. How is there no consensus in Serbia when a union protest is radicalised, when someone starts cutting parts of their body? There is no consensus in the sense -- let's think about it, who is directly responsible for all of this that lasts for many years in Serbia? What message does the elite send - what worse? Who was responsible for the degree of crime that is happening in Serbia? Who was responsible for the bankruptcy that took place just to get someone to the buildings, and people are acting like they're just animals? Even animals have better status in Serbia. What about these kids? What about the old ones? Today in Serbia, we have a situation that because of the victims of the transition-- that pensioners support their children, instead of being the other way around. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really high time to start thinking in Serbia regardless of the political color, that we have to come to a consensus -- what are the values in Serbia, and how are we all going to protect what is called -- the interest of an ordinary man. That this is so, without an empty political story, testifys every time in the election the percentage of turnout. The more people who should vote for a better life, they don't believe us. Because every time we promise them election campaigns and humiliate them by buying them refrigerators and phones, we bring it to an end. We're actually just continuing the agony, which, from the election campaign to the election campaign, is getting bigger and bigger, and the percentage of turnout is getting smaller and smaller. Maybe we're wrong, maybe we're too radically looking at this situation, but I believe you'll agree that this is a fact that we all need to imagine, as well as the fact -- that millions of people followed a man, that no one invited and organized them, the best among us, just because that man lived in harmony with what he preached. That was supposed to be a lesson to all of us. So, ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest data from the National Employment Service, 728 thousand people in Serbia are unemployed. It's a very big question of what the rest of the population is like, labourable and employed, in which status it works. I guarantee you, and during all these discussions we will prove that the working population in Serbia is in a slave position, that the degree of employment really depends on the nearness of government at any level, that there really is no what the Constitution requires as a commitment, and it is equal participation in work, equal opportunities, no, of course because this society is deeply politicised. Indeed, in every place you can see extraordinary but monstrous discrimination. Also, I have to remind you that out of that number of unemployed people, women are really ahead of them, unfortunately. We had the opportunity to listen to the debate on gender equality. We had the opportunity to listen to the debate on many topics and hear extraordinary political speeches, but we also had the opportunity to hear, or not to hear any attempts to solve this problem. That's why the citizens don't trust us. That's why they only look at us as beings who will work out their existence well every time in the election. That's why the citizens showed and sent a message that they only trusted one man in this society, one who lived according to what he was saying. If you don't think you know how to do business in this country, you know. If you think a shadow knows who's holding the monopolies, you know. You're very angry when we talk about it. I'm not saying it was better before, that some other elites did much better things, but they paid for it in the election. We are slowly but surely coming to that limit when there is no more thinking, when we all have to agree on what is national and what is state interest, what is the consensus, what are the values that this society should adopt, that we finally begin to send from this place a message to the citizens that the best really needs to take the right place and that no one can condition them to political membership. For example, if only the real ones had to show how they should progress in society, not the bad ones and the wrong ones. So, we are free of any debate in this legislative body and it is really unnecessary to talk about the speed of EU accession, it is absolutely pointless to tell how much this House has passed, unless we have a result, unless we have institutions that function, if we have citizens who are more and more difficult to live and in debt slavery, and if the percentage of turnout in the election of politically designed actions is becoming smaller and smaller. What have we done with this House? We have actually created an institution that will meet the conditions of a particular financial organisation without thinking about how we will implement these laws. Are these laws really possible and enforceable in a society that rotted inside, in a society where no institution that should be cohesion, that sticky factor of society, really exists? In a society where surveyors on the street ask a man if he'll go to the polls, he turns his head on the other side with a half-sad smile. So, I hope you don't mind this discussion getting a little out of the context of bankruptcy, but the right to a man's life is an imperative of the SRS. Finally, the lighting of all those who destroyed such a beautiful country and indeed killed the dignity of such a beautiful people, is also an imperative of the SRS. I believe not only ours, but I do know that among all of you there are honorable people who, hopefully, will get the strength, no matter what option they belonged to, to fight and to make a consensus for the survival of Serbia and the Serb people. I also apologize to Serbian citizens that we do not have enough power as Serbian radicals to finally uncompromisingly deal with organised crime, with the owners of Serbia who have definitely destroyed the right to a man's life and so publicly and so transparently that it never happens again. I also apologize to all those future generations who will likely need to participate in something called political life, which we haven't really left you with the best lead, which we didn't have enough power to get at a certain point elections for something called consensus, for something called real political life. I'm really sorry we haven't been able to demascate who's actually doing whose interests here? I hope that those present colleagues who make up the coalition in power will not mind, but based on all this, they will not mind because I know that there really are people among you who want this people best, but also among you dear colleagues, there are also those who are lobbyists of some other organizations, some other interests. I think rightly, it is ultimately my political opinion that this government that rules Serbia does not work for the benefit of the Serbian people and I hope, indeed, that the responsibility, even if Christian and political, is on all of you that you will be able to get the strength and that among your ranks, you recognise the leprosy and show them well to this people. This people deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33240	17 minutes have been used, from the time available to the SRS parliamentary group, three minutes and 45 seconds remain. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this was one obviously, unfortunately, unsuccessful attempt to change the way it affected the reduction of certain time limits and thus tried to speed up the entire bankruptcy process. Article 109, which I have submitted an amendment to on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, reads: ‘The bankruptcy manager shall be obliged to draw up, within 30 days of the date of the acquisition of the assets and the right of the creditor, the initial bankruptcy balance in which he or she will indicate and compare the assets and liabilities of the creditor.’ The amendment provides for the 30-day deadline to be halved for 15 days. However, it is not accepted, since the applicant considers that the initial bankruptcy balance is based on the previously executed asset list and on the obligations for which a period of 30 days from the date of appointment of the bankruptcy manager is foreseen. We have had in principle an objection to the overall proposal of the bankruptcy law, because we believe, above all, that it should be possible to provide an opportunity, i.e. to make the bill sufficiently flexible, to enable, in a way, the reorganisation and thus to increase the chance of recovery of debtors, as well as to show that, above all, it is necessary to pay attention to the removal of all those factors that cause procedural legal doubt, both for the status of creditors and for the status of debtor or bankruptcy. If this does not show at least a little goodwill or tolerance in this regard, then obviously thanks to the assembly's majority's will, we will have another bankruptcy law that will not help solve the accumulated problems in the burdened Serbian economy. What I would like to point out on this occasion is that one of the reasons why the state obviously doesn't want to rush into speeding up these bankruptcy proceedings is probably also because in all these companies, you know that there are tens of thousands of people employed and that there is clearly no interest in another wave of unemployed in the labour market, and instead of solving this problem essentially through certain investments that are small, we've obviously been spinning in a vicious circle for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33242	Thank you. It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33243	Article 111(5) The draft law concerns the application and the amendment provides for one reduction of the time limit set here in the Bill's proposal. It is that applications can be submitted at the end of a specified decision by the bankruptcy judge, and no later than 120 days after the publication of the ad in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", all applications submitted at the end of the 120-day period will be rejected as untimely. The amendment provides that this deadline of 120 days should be replaced by 30 days and that, in this way, practically, by shortening the time limit for submission, at the end of a period specified by the decision of the bankruptcy judge, the total impact shall be on the reduction of the bankruptcy proceedings. However, even this time as it was in all these previous cases during the amendment with this purpose, the Government, or the Proposer, did not accept, because there is more or less repetitive reasoning like all of these, but it is believed that the deadline of 120 days, which is beginning to be calculated from the expiry of the deadline for applying for a claim that has been set by the court and that this can be concluded on the basis of some practice so far. But again, when it comes to practice, there is absolutely no basis for such provisions as are contained in this bill to be acceptable, at least as far as the SRS parliamentary group is concerned. If that's the way it is, then it doesn't have to surprise any specific examples of life that we have. Last night I mentioned a case of employees in the "Belgrade" shoe industry, and I have here a contract between employee Sonja Radic and firm. The contract was concluded on 30 April 2003, when the need for work ceased, where the employer committed himself to paying a one-time cash fee of 6,000 dinars per year. Today it is December 4, 2009, of course it is not respected, and it only says how the state treats people, and I think they absolutely don't deserve it, especially those who practically spent their entire working life in companies that are willing or ignorant, or the incompetence of the government being brought into a situation to suffer through bankruptcy or in any other way an infamous fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33244	Two minutes and 50 seconds and the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33245	Article 114. The draft bankruptcy law, paragraph 2, is what we have submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and here is how few MPs present could get acquainted with it, it is that a bankruptcy manager and creditors are invited to the hearing hearing, and then there is a provision that we have requested, and it is said – and a bankruptcy debtor can be called, as well as a person who has performed business with a creditor, who can provide data on the existence and height of the claim, as well as auditors who have been reviewing the business of the creditor. So, all of this is related to the course of the hearing, and we have amended, too, one correction that would allow the call to the hearing hearing of the bankruptcy debtor and the persons working with him, because, in our opinion, they can provide the best picture of the business, the foundation of the claim and other relevant facts from the legal person's business. However, this amendment is also not accepted for the reason that, as the argument states, the action depends on the assessment of the bankruptcy judge in relation to the need for the presence of certain persons, and will depend on the call. Anyone who wants to understand will understand what he now felt with such an explanation. I say again, I call on you to consider in the day of the vote, that is, when we declare these proposed amendments, think about it a little bit, because I do not think that apriori should refuse any amendment coming from the opposition's ranks, because there are indeed some perfectly logical and economically justified amendments related to the problem of bankruptcy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33246	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33247	Article 132. The bill, in particular in this case, was submitted to the 6th position, where two high-ranking daily lists were distributed, replaced by words – one high-pitched list distributed. This is an area that defines a solution to bankruptcy, etc. and the obligations that the bankruptcy administrator, or anyone involved in the process, should carry out. What's the point? In view of the need for a reduction of costs in the overall process, we felt that such an amendment would be quite appropriate to allow a reduction of costs, as in the view of the SRS it is quite appropriate to publish the sale of bankruptcy in a high circulation list. We believe that such a provision in this bill would be perfectly appropriate to resolve this problem. There is no need to really, as predicted by the government to publish in two high-level daily lists these solutions that are needed. There are some provisions that, I say, are the compilation of some laws, i.e. systems that operate in this area from the countries of the environment, and also from Europe, the United States, and I think that some concrete and quality experiences that exist when it comes to the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings should be taken over and the proposal for legislation that is now in the assembly procedure that should reflect on this and how the big problem in Serbia should be fixed in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33248	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Amendments to Article 135 submitted to the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 136 was submitted by the Financial Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) It is up to the Government to amend the Article. 136. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 20 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 150th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33249	Chapter 10. The bankruptcy law speaks of special procedures in the event of a long-term insolvency for payment, where, by official duty, I say, bankruptcy is carried out on enterprises that have suspended all payments for a continuous duration of at least two years and that, upon receipt of notice of such a situation, it is written in Article 150, paragraph 4, whose erasure we are looking for, provides a solution to the launch of a previous bankruptcy procedure which also determines the existence of legal interest of the creditors in the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings. What's this about? Articles 150, 151, 152, 153 and 154 discuss the establishment of a bankruptcy procedure where there is no proposal at all, nor the consent of the trustees to carry out such conduct. The question is, why is it that at this point, when it comes to reorganising justice, when it is not known who will judge, in any case, or in any court, almost under any jurisdiction, in which it is even of interest to burden the courts with these proceedings, for which there is no precisely defined trustee who wants to conduct bankruptcy proceedings, and why would courts ever build up jobs that are not able to do so? Is this an alibi for the failure of the law, not to have a lot of legal entities afterwards, and it has already been suggested in public that there are many such legal entities that exist only on paper? Let me give you an analogy with the State Auditing Institution. The competencies she has - to control many legal persons, start with the state, through public enterprises, all those who deal with them, all those who conduct public procurement in which public interest participates. Is it not one, supposedly skilled, unskilled attempt to give someone a lot of work, in fact, create an alibi for you to call that institution unsuccessful or that the law itself is not enforceable because the authorities that were to execute it couldn't implement it properly? First, you can't tell me that the biggest problem in this country, as explained in the explanation, is that you need to automatically launch bankruptcys to delete such legal persons from the register. Why do you allow phantom companies who launder money to register? Who are the phantom firms who cash money? Let those who are obliged to answer this, those who write laws and registrations in the register, those who say that they cannot verify the history of a company that closes down one and shuts down the other, or that someone who can for 200 euros, a junkie, a sick person or at least who, to give their ID card and to be the person to be registered by some form of company that will serve to launder money. It's the first job. Is it more obvious that there are firms that don't work? Is it physically more obvious that in all cities there are started construction sites, in the strict centers of cities, where they gather at night faces and persons so as not to let your children pass by such buildings? Someone in a zenith of fame, power or some of the shortcuts that came to money, permission or a piece of attractive construction land in the city, started to make, a friend fell from power, no more money, got involved in a risky business that didn't end up with success, and remained a monument to some quick takeoff that tells us that the shortcuts to money end in the darkness in which some people end up, hobos and junkies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33250	People's MPs, the time available to the MP's group has been used. The government has submitted to Article 150 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33251	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 150, this is a chapter concerning a special procedure in the event of a long-term inability to pay. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to the position of the 1st member, which has been asked to replace the words "two years" with the words "180 days", in order to reduce the deadline in the period since the legal person suspended payment from two years to six months. We believe that the deadline is appropriate and that, on the expiry of that deadline, the state must take sanctions for disorderly pay. However, the main problem is that the whole bill is obviously made for a state with a market economy, and it is clear that there are still a lot of companies with social property. It is evident that all these companies in charge have to solve their problems, especially with creditor banks, because it is obvious that it is one common and obligation and torment. This would clearly have to be the state's point of view, i.e. that, above all, the problem that exists in the Serbian economy is solved through the process and the reprogramming of debts and certain financial consolidation. There's room for that, if anything else at the height of the bank margins. There is also room for the reduction of interest, for the debt reprogramme and thus to facilitate the burden of the economy and to help practically. In this way, it is clear that commitments to the state are being met, and what remains is something else, and in this way, by disabling the real reorganisation of enterprises, unreasonable taxes and contributions, i.e. by creating conditions for liquidation, is destroying their own economy. That's what the SRS is absolutely up against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33252	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33253	Article 151(2) is in direct contact with Article 150(4) in that formal relationship. If the removal of that position 4 on the implementation of the previous bankruptcy procedure under official duty has been accepted, it should indeed be deleted from Article 2, where it is possible to appeal to that solution under Article 4. I'll take the opportunity to complete the obvious of the wrong actions of those who allegedly want to introduce order. If the reason for the rejection of these amendments states that such persons, which, by their long-term indifference, make indifference spread in the economy at all, would ask the state - who today is the biggest debtor to those who have done the greatest jobs for the state? The biggest debtor is not companies outside of what is called the state, but rather the state and its public enterprises. That's why we had to take new guarantees, new loans to, for example, the Serbian Roads Company, to provide money to reconcile obligations to its contractors and subcontractors and many of those whose names you haven't heard yet, because they say -- there is God, so the state, and the one whom you pray to, is not angry with him, so people don't want to talk much about their rights and claims. Instead of the state obviously starting a unfinished construction site, which I mentioned by explaining the previous amendment, resolve by allowing either local self-government or by bringing to the level of the Republic some law to which such objects, such legal persons will liquidate and find a way to restore the stakes that they have given in such a building or any other form of justice, but not to leave in the centers of the city monuments...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33254	Two minutes. Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? The 154th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33255	A fantastic opportunity to do today what Mrs. Komic asks of us. Fortunately, we speak what we think ourselves and most of all we have the most well-intentioned statements, and in terms of righteousness, they are equal from God's commandments to the laws we make. Our actions, our effects and I will conclude with the effects of this law. Mr. Andric, Councillor Dinkicev, Minister of bankruptcy, when you wrote this law, why you left the bankruptcy centre out of the possibility of being replaced as a bankruptcy manager, there is no control over it, as the bankruptcy managers normally do. Is this bankruptcy centre, which has no control over by a bankruptcy judge, no solution as a bankruptcy manager, self-determining the sale of property of great value, in fact it should serve the realisation of someone's interests, with the newly adopted law on planning and construction, where, under certain conditions, the owners of large-scale parcels and land are able to change the purpose so far of city building land and allow what has been wrongly done and illegally acquired by literally paying the machinations, such as that of an old institute in the Catholic church that any sin can be washed by paying, is one of the reasons why you have passed this law? It's not my suspicion in the domain of impressions, these are consistently executed solutions that have been explicitly implemented through this law. May it serve you honor, and this will be our first big job to abolish these and these laws and to avoid, through the story of righteousness and of general interest, the very work that is evident in the interests of certain people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33256	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The government has submitted to Article 156 of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 158th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Finance. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to the title above article 159 were submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 159 of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 162 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33257	I would ask only after the second minute to remind me, because I do not want to use the time reserved for the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, in Article 162(2). I suggested that "60 days" be replaced by "30 days". The amendment proposes a legal and technical correction that reduces the number of days for extending the deadline for submitting the reorganisation plan. As far as disputed bankruptcy in Serbia is concerned, large enterprises, with valuable assets, have been introduced, cheaply welcomed by retailers, tycoons, in order to become enormously rich in a quick and easy way. A commission or a caucus, like who, would be taken by members of the bankruptcy mob. The bankrupt mobsters, they're probably the hateliest characters in the mind of the so-called. Loser of transition. Former and current workers of formerly wealthy companies place a heavy burden on their souls to kidnap, degrade and sell property that generations have acquired. The signatures of Goran Kljajevic and Delinka Djurdjevic, the first judges of the Trade Court, are on almost all unusually introduced and implemented bankruptcys in Serbia by the time of the arrest. The company of the former Yugoslavia "Inex", once the most powerful trade chain in this part of Europe, the RC Belgrade, the large textile industry "Beko", a giant who had a chain of stores not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, of Beka lived thousands of families, "Bim Slavija", a construction company "Rad", "C Market", then "Yugoexport", a list of billions of dollars, companies had different fates, and today they are in different positions, that is, in their hands. One thing's for sure, though, all the companies that haven't been sold will be in the next period. The Inex today is in bankruptcy, its most valuable property, a large business building on Queen Mary Street or the former March 27th, as well as a hotel complex on the Adriatic, the Republic of Belgrade is not included...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33258	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 164 submitted to the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 167 of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments were submitted by the Finance Committee to Article 173. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 204 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33259	The RK Belgrade is not included in the case of a bankruptcy mafia, but rather is under special procedure. However, I would point out two facts -- they were dealt with by the aforementioned judges and the RC Belgrade were sold out of bankruptcy, they say -- for good money, 360m euros. The lucky customer was Bajo Živanić. The workers, we know for ourselves, have been protesting for several months in Pioneer Park. No one wanted to take them in, no one wanted to listen to them, and in the end they even strike hunger. "C Market" bought Miroslav Miskovic, Slobodan Radulovic, a former company director, fled before that in early 2006, in sunny Spain. Previously on "C Market" has damaged 20m euros. What's going on in Serbia? The tycoons who decide to steal the company are usually companies that have large assets, since they do not want to pay the company's market price, because its primary goal is to resell fast and much, the tycoon finds insiders in the company, mostly someone from the top and buys out trustees' rights. The tycoon normally operates with the company from before, so it places a repromatter with bloated invoices or short-term loan with green interest. In order to extend the company, the management signs harmful contracts and receives a commission for the service. After a while, when a company becomes insolvent first and then insolvent, a tycoon trustee triggers bankruptcy to take it cheaply. After all, the same tycoon has its own President, a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy manager who works for the commission to liquidate the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33260	Two minutes. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Bojan Mladenovic has submitted to Article 205 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33261	Of course, in all these cases, workers suffer first. More than 40,000 people were employed in the Inex alone, in the RC "Belgrade", alone. The aim of the bankruptcy is not to liquidate the company, but to protect itself from the creditors, reorganize, restore economic activity and continue to work to restore all debts or creditors to the shareholders of the company. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy mafia won't do it, because there's no interest in healing businesses, they're scramblingly defending their interests and placing the story in public that the aim of bankruptcy is to liquidate businesses. It's as stupid an explanation as a surgeon would say the objective of an operation is to have a patient die. For years, however, bankruptcy has been the most profitable occupation in the country. The bankruptcy directors slaughter half a ton of bulls to make a one-pound steak for themselves. The greed of the bankruptcy mafia was so great that they wouldn't let anyone else participate in the bankruptcy, but their confidential people. So there were absurd situations that some bankruptcy managers led 64 bankruptcys in a few years, which is a world record. We also have those who ran 25 bankruptcys at one point. The tycoon was waiting for a bid to buy property without workers and without any other obligations, as creditors had to settle for crumbs from the purchase price. As a tycoon trusts, he acts as a dissatisfaction to make the scam as good as possible. It worked for years with the silent political support of most of all the people in power. He shouldn't have done anything by himself if he hadn't had mentors in the ranks they've left behind. How is it possible to sell the Sartida concept out of bankruptcy for only $23m, when the white tin factory in Šapec alone is worth $120m and the entire Sartid is worth over $500m.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33262	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 206 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33263	I noted that Sartid is worth $500m for $23m. Where did $527 million go, how far did Pennsylvania go to pay Sartide? What ministers were involved in this operation? Why aren't they arrested today? Sartida's debt of $1.7 billion remained to the state, as well as the lawsuits of cheated foreign creditors. Why isn't the debt of foreign creditors turned into action capital? That's how Sartid would privatise himself, and that's what the creditors are looking for. The Belgrade Shipyard case, which was sold out of bankruptcy for $13m, while its market value was the entire 270m euros or the case of the formerly largest trade giant in the Balkans, Belgrade, which was deliberately pushed into bankruptcy, and that the bankruptcy manager claimed to be 134m euros and that the capital of only 130m euros, which meant that the company should be immediately liquidated. Companies in bankruptcy, their estimate was 833 million. That capital was enough to cover all debts to the creditors, to pay all the backlogs to the workers and to remain the capital to enter the shares. Similar is the case with “Centroslavija” Novi Sad, with “Klusa”, with “Sport old”, with “Beko”, “Vojin Popović – Novi Pazar”, “Vesna – Sjenica” and many other companies that have been robbed. As regards the very affair of the bankruptcy mafia that was launched and discovered in 2006, when Goran Kljajevic, President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, was arrested, then the judge of the court, Delinka Djurdjevic, businessman Sekula Pijevcevic, the Milinko brothers and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33264	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Mladen Grujic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 207 in Chapter 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Mladen Grujic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 208 in Chapter 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 207, was submitted by the Committee on Finance. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33265	I stopped at the arrested brothers, Milinko and Miko Brašnevic, co-owners of the company "Ecoproducer", Jelica Zivkovic, former director of the Post Office, lawyers Nemanja Jolović and Jasmina Kjetic-Pavlović. As organisers of the criminal group, Kljajevic, Jolovic, Pijevčević, Milinko Brašnevic, Jelica Zivkovic, as well as Slobodan Radulovic, former director of the "C Market", who is on the run for which an international arrest warrant has been called. During the investigation, the list of suspects grew, but the list of crimes attributed to them in the special prosecutor's office said that there are Niagara Falls of Evidence against this group and that it will not be necessary for any of the members to obtain the status of witness associates. In October 2006, an indictment was filed on 181 sides, the largest ever written in the history of the Serbian judiciary. The trial began on 22 January 2007 in front of Major Judge Dusan Vojinovic. The indictment is represented by special prosecutor Branislav Zivkovic, who announced that 250 witnesses should be heard during the trial, carry out 1000 material evidence and perform 10 skills. They have been charged with taking more than 50m euros in illegal actions since October 2004. Of this, only from the "C Market" illegally adopted 20 million, and from the Post Office about 14m euros. The accused are charged with estranged by several companies that were in bankruptcy proceedings – Beko, GP "Rad", "Inex", "Interrecsport", "Comel", "Invest Institute", "Belgrade Escont Centre", as well as the privatisation of the "C Market", a company where the director was avoided by Slobodan Radulović. Kljajevic, among other things, has been accused of abuse of his post so that Radulovic can buy the "C market". Finally, I would say that all the employees of these companies and businesses lost their jobs, lost their income, lost their right to treatment, were left on the street. The state didn't stand behind them. The state did not stop to protect them, it stood behind individuals who were allowed to quickly, in an easy way enormously enriched in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33266	Anyone else want a word? If not, the government has submitted to Article 208 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 212 have been submitted by the Committee on Finance. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 26th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for LICIPATION OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dusan Marić, Marina Toman, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Milan Avramović, Momir Marković, Milan Škrbić, Boris Alexic, Dejan Mirović, Bojan Mladenov, Radiša Ilic, Mirko Munjic and Vladan Jeremic. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers and proposed that the words "and other legal regulations" be added after the words "public agencies regulations". In the light of this amendment, I have stated that a legal-technical correction is proposed, which is a completely legal formulation extending the framework of legal regulation. Legal regulations governing the business of state authorities are homogeneous and heterogeneous, and by limiting legal acts to ourselves a legal regulation the legislator of the law has made legal precedent. In response to this amendment, the Government issued the following position – the amendment is not accepted for reasons why Article 7. The law on public agencies, other than that law, applies the agencies to their work and other regulations. Just what I suggested. In addition, the proposed amendment is not legal-technical content, as stated in the explanation of the amendments of the MP, but represents a material norm that changes the essence and content of this article, and the term – legal regulations do not comply with the legislative, legal technique. Here is the contradiction in the view of the Government, since in the first sentence of this argument it is said – that, in addition to the Law on public agencies, agencies apply in their work the provisions of other regulations. It really isn't – legal, but I don't know what else it is, but legal regulations. What is important is to point out, very briefly, within these two minutes, if I have more time, the government's concept is wrong, because it is not working to unify legal regulations, but to break down the legal system by adopting certain regulations that it makes under the material law. In this case, the material law is a bankruptcy law, i.e. a bankruptcy procedure, and is derived from the adoption of another legal regulation – the establishment of the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. The SRS proposal is to implement the unification, as normal and modern states do, i.e. modern legislation that uses uniform forms. So the material law forms an agency. This is how we got three guys. We have certain legal regulations that are the material basis and form agencies, other regulations in which we have only a material regulation that opens up the possibility of forming agencies and a third model, to form only agencies. Unite this. I think it's time to do it. You can't do that right now, because you've already proposed this law, but you're using what I'm telling you right now, what the SRS is telling you to do, to access the unification of legal regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33268	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. There's 15 seconds left. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33269	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(3). The bill also suggested that he be deleted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the light of my amendment, I have stated that the amendment proposes erasing this article, because no one is trusting the Agency to carry out these tasks. The Agency shall carry out the tasks set out in the Banking Act and in the law for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. These transactions are originally and legally established as activities of the Agency. No other state body has legal and other legal powers to transfer these tasks to the agency. In view of the government's failure to accept the amendment, it is said that the Law on Public Agencys provided for public administration affairs to be entrusted to public agencies, and in Article 2(3). The draft law only implements the harmonisation of the existing norms with Article 3 of the existing Law on Public Agencys. It is surprising to say, that is, the government's position, given the circumstances that this has not been carried out, not but the original right of the agency. There is no need to trust, and there is no basis for any legal basis, since the law on bankruptcy gave the agency all the rights and there are no trusts in the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33270	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33271	On behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Amendment Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants and in Article 3 respectively, as proposed in the new Article 3a. Paragraph 2 of the first sentence – insight and analysis, replaced by words – the control of urgency. In this amendment, I have proposed a legal and technical correction, whose aim is to show the legal meaning of the professional name, because the provision of Article 3 speaks of a professional name. The Agency shall not be able to carry out ex post analysis of the report, subsequently correct the report or take other legal actions. The Agency may conduct an up-to-date review of the reports submitted. The bankruptcy administrator shall perform the orders of the bankruptcy judge and shall respect the deadlines given which are part of the other orders in the bankruptcy proceedings. An analysis of the report, submitted by the bankruptcy manager, is carried out in bankruptcy proceedings by the bankruptcy judge and the person participating in the bankruptcy proceedings. I don't have time to read the government's explanation. I will briefly introduce the public to the initiative of the workers of the "Holding Zork" from Šapac, who have been on a serious strike for a month and a half. However, as Monday at 12 o'clock, they are on a hunger strike and I call on all state authorities, as this case has been discussed at a session of the Committee on Industry, where we have asked the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to assist this company and workers who have been deprived of fundamental rights, the right to profit and the right to contributions from social and other insurance. That's why I'm taking this opportunity once again to invite them to make themselves known, to meet this group of workers, given that they've suffered serious damage. They have executed judgments, which unfortunately the state does not execute. It's a good opportunity to do it by Monday, otherwise the workers are on strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33272	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS on the existence of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers has been known since the time this agency was established four and a half years ago and when we talked about this law, but unfortunately this agency exists and we don't know what this agency has done for all this time, since Dinkic told us that bankruptcys have been conducted very badly, that this law is not good, that it is not a good agency, that they are not good licensed managers. We need to talk again about some agency director you're legally giving jurisdiction to that he can't possibly have. He can't have dual powers, since he's running the agency and then he can't participate in other affairs that are imperative in the responsibilities of some other authorities, but you've foreseen it in this plan. Yesterday I was talking about the licensing of bankruptcy managers, and I was showing here, and I was reading part of the test for passing an expert exam for bankruptcy managers, which I remind you again, like when in crazy jokes they give people to pour water with a solution, so are serious questions in this test, so I remind you that these Dinkic bankruptcy managers become bankruptcy managers if, among other things, they answer the question under number 13, and this question is – if a foreign representative can address a trade court, so they are possible answers: 1st through the Justice Ministry, 2nd through the Ministry of Economy, 3rd through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State and 4th directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33274	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing that 96 amendments have been submitted to the bankruptcy law, 18 amendments to the law on the licensing of bankruptcy directors, and that no one, by any amendment, by those who should have, by the Government's promoter, appeared, at least one, and to say - you were free of charge, it's nothing wrong with you, or anything. What a message, gentlemen of the government, you send not to the citizens of Serbia, but also to those who should professionally implement this law, or to try from what is left, and what you have destroyed in the previous period, to try, because, after bankruptcy, you have seen, the bankruptcy is carried out by bankruptcy or reorganisation or reviving. What message? Nothing. This is like that before me. The caravans pass by, and they remain silent. Why do you keep your mouth shut? Is this too late for you? Not to suggest, perhaps, speeding up the privatisation process, so that little remains can be seized and kidnapped by Serbian citizens? I suggested that in Article 3, which is new and added, and this is about new bodies, about the need for better control of bankruptcy managers, and after so much time, after so much privatisation, you remembered that bankruptcy managers could and should be controlled a little bit, so I suggested that in Article 3b, after Article 5, another position is added, where it is proposed that the second-degree disciplinaryally larger, composed of three members, and the composition and structure of that council would be added, that those who are subject to this law be subject to the application of these sanctions, which are simply amazing – a warning, public notice, a fine makes sense, the withdrawal of a license to bankruptcy managers also makes sense, but what the representatives of the government are doing, there is no point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33276	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the point of everything you've done so far. In Article 3, paragraph 5, you baptized him as 3g, it says: “The supervisor’s report of Article 4 of this Article has the right to appeal within three days. ” What exactly is this about? The complaint can be filed by the agency, can be submitted by the director of the agency, and can be submitted by a third party. Now, gentlemen, it's the third person you've robbed through "buzzer's privatization". Now some workers, who have been kidnapped by everything they have acquired for years, as a third party, have submitted a request to examine the supervisor's report, because crow crows don't take their eyes out, it's important that they are from the same branch, or the supervisor has come, controlled and found that there are no frauds, no criminal acts, no labour irregularities. Then you have three days to object. Of course, I asked it to be at least eight days, to read what the supervisor wrote, which he commended because he didn't ask for disciplinary responsibility. He says three days is enough, in response to why my amendment hasn't been adopted. It's symptomatic of this, too. It says – the complaint referred to in Article 5 shall be decided by the Director of the Agency by means of a solution. That crow's eyes are not coming out again. The decision referred to in Article 6 is final and cannot be brought against it by an administrative dispute. So through this 3g article, you've completed complete paperwork. You have prepared that what you steal or anyone can object to you, and if, God forbid, you search for an analysis of the report of the one you sent to close the paperwork, then the director who is from the same flock, from the same nest, will decide according to attitude 5, and according to attitude 6, his solution is just as holy Scripture, drawn, and you will not be able to take any measures against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33278	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Škrbic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. This article shall be treated with the level of penalties in the event of minor infringements of the duties of the creditor on the basis of the supervisor's report. The SRS amendment envisions an increase of fines for bankruptcy managers up to 150,000, instead of the proposed maximum 100,000 dinars. Why? It is well known, and we also had the opportunity to hear in the principle debate, but also in the media, where many businesses in Serbia have come, thanks to the bankruptcy managers who have received such bonuses for their successful work, or rewards, from which the ordinary man would turn in his head. Behind them was always a wasteland and unfairly calmed workers. What is considered to be a minor violation of duty within the meaning of this law? What are minor failures? Infringements of regulations and irregularities that can cost both the state and the workers. And the slightest irregularity in the work, even if repeated, should be a signal to some other bodies that would be involved in the analysis of the work of bankruptcy managers. Being a bankruptcy manager can be, and that is, a very lucrative action. We know this from the Moldovan case, here very often mentioned, or from the case of a bankruptcy manager who has received millions of dollars for the deserved and self-inflicted work under the letter of the law. Its biography includes many Belgrade companies, including "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", and we know how it all ended, but we also know very well why you're only changing now, or you're passing laws that regulate bankruptcy and the work of bankruptcy managers – because you've done all the main jobs under the grain, suspiciously selling property to a bankrupt company. Here's what it sounds like: "Beko", "Rad", "Slavija", "C market", "Geneks", "Robne kuća Belgrade", "Sartid" etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33280	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33281	Authorised persons to carry out expert supervision under the proposal of this law are supervisor, disciplinaryally larger and director of the agency. Thus, under Article 36 of the proposal of this law, a more disciplinary body is composed of five members and its composition and the way of appointment is determined by the Management Board of the Agency, and the supervisor also cannot be a member of the disciplinary council in the case in which he has exercised expert supervision. We have asked this amendment to remove the agency director's license from the bankruptcy manager, so, in one case, as well as in another case where this one is deleted from the records, therefore, from the directory of bankruptcy managers, a complaint may be lodged within eight days of the day of receipt of the solution. What are you looking for? It is requested that in certain cases, which are specific and specific, the decision of the Director of the Agency may be reconsidered in the second instance. The director of the agencies has considerable authority and should be allowed the possibility to place his decisions under a certain scope of control by another authority in certain cases. Any other solution would lead to some self-will and abuse of rights, but given that we see that this government is committing abuse of rights on a daily basis, I really have no illusions about accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33282	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group refers to Articles 3 and 3z. Article 2 where the words ‘Minister of power’ are replaced by the words ‘Minister of jurisdiction’. This is one of the principal views of the SRS and an attempt to virtually deny the right of the minister as an individual to adopt a special legal regulation, and that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and other laws, this is transferred to the competent state body, which is, of course, the ministry responsible for bankruptcy operations. However, the amendment was not accepted. By the way, I've mentioned how many bankruptcys there are, or bankruptcy managers in the surrounding countries. Serbia has this regulatory body in the area of bankruptcy, so the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. Our position regarding the agencies is well known, and so is the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. What should take particular account of this occasion is that bankruptcy managers, as persons carrying out this procedure, must, above all, also be qualified for this, with the conditions concerning high professional qualifications, work experience, professional examinations etc. and other obligations are necessary. Otherwise, in Serbia, since 2005, when the first license was issued, most of all there are graduate economists, but no matter what, there are some shortcomings in this bill, especially in the draft bankruptcy law, and we have witnessed many irregularities in all this. Now as I was coming to the gym, I also remembered the case of the Unity Trade Company in Mladenov, which has been in bankruptcy for nine years, and it happens, let's say, that now we're representing the bankruptcy manager that almost sells one property, or pay in the city center, and not to settle the trustee, one of the biggest from SO Mladenovac. So these are some failures to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-04-0.u33284	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I would like to inform the National Assembly that for today we are finishing our work and continue our work on Tuesday, 8 December 2009, at 10:00 hours, with discussion in detail on the 27th item of the agenda – draft law on stamps. Thank you.
