ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22409	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Dr Nikola Krpić, Mladen Grujic, Miroslav Petkovic, Gordana Comić, Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović and Đuro Peric. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the sittings to attend: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, Dejan Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as well as Nikola Papak, Deputy Prime Minister, and Ivana Grbić, State Secretary adviser, who will accompany the session from the Great Hall gallery. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON REGIONAL DURING (resuming in particular) We are moving to search for an amendment to the title above Article 18, which was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic problem with the development documents and their definition through this SRS law was the fact that you did not provide for a deadline for making these development documents. This article refers to other development documents, so you have foreseen which documents should be, or you have predicted that they must be in line with the National Plan and regional development strategies, but only two or three members earlier, where you define which development documents they are, you do not foresee a deadline within which the development documents of that level have to be drawn up. You predict who, who brings them, whose proposal, even in one position of Article 14, you predict that the Government is obliged to set a deadline within which these documents will be made public, but you did not provide for a deadline for their production anywhere in the law. We think this is a serious matter when it comes to developmental documentation. For example, in its future laws on planning and construction, the government will predict that it takes 18 months to develop a spatial plan at a local level. It's not an unreal number of months. It is impossible and unacceptable that when it comes to development documents, which, in principle, should be the basis for a balanced, or balanced regional development, you do not have a deadline for making them. This only shows in another way that you are essentially committed through this law to the decommissioning of our state and national tissues, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you are trying to restructure your party, or party infrastructure, G17 plus infrastructure, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22411	Thank you. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could hear from Mr Mladjan Dinkic and Mrs. Verica Kalanovic that the adoption of exactly this kind of law on the regional development of the Republic of Serbia is one of the conditions for Serbia's faster approach to the EU. Since the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member, nor is it a candidate for that membership and the question is when will it be, and BiH has the same status, which is also on the road, like you, Euro-Atlantic integration, I wonder how is it that for BiH regionalisation is not a condition for faster EU accession? On the contrary, we heard a few years ago, from various senior representatives in BiH, and from officials of the US administration, and from EU officials, that unitaryisation of BiH is needed. These days in Republika Srpska and, in general, in BiH structures, the rights of the hack against the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to draw conclusions that Republika Srpska has declared to transfer competences from entity to state-level BiH. I'm just curious -- how is it possible that one condition applies to Serbia, while some other conditions apply to BiH? How is it a condition for Serbia to regionalise, to divide it, to rip it to the feds, and this same condition does not exist when it comes to BiH? There we see a completely different scenario, that BiH is unitaryized, that all the constitutional and political capacities of Republika Srpska are completely stifled and that, in practice, BiH becomes one unitary state in which Republika Srpska will only formally exist. So, I'd like to hear from the government's representative if it's possible that the EU... (President: we understand. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22413	On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22414	The Honored Presidency, representatives of the ministry, the Honorable Minister and the Honored People's MPs, this is an amendment that is in line with the amendments that we have submitted to the previous members and concerning development documents. We believe that the most important development document should be a policy of regional development, which should be established by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly, and therefore develop all other documents that are relevant, both on the national and regional agenda. Instead, you have decided to create a particular policy with a number of administrations and a number of bodies at regional and regional level. There's our main objection. In its 2nd position, it reads: "the author of other development documents in the area of regional development obtains an opinion from the Ministry and the Regional Development Council on the consistency of these documents with the National Plan and the Regional Strategy". We are against these regional development councils, for a simple reason, which we think a well-organized National Agency could very well cover it all and make a final bond, which we insist on, which is a bond with local self-government. This is where all the law avoids this direct bond. We ask this amendment to delete these words, because this body is excessive and complicated by the whole structure and procedure of establishing regional development strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22415	Thank you. On top of Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who also has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22416	I would really like to be told how to get government representatives to answer why Kosovo and Metohija are not a subject of regionalisation. If you are in Article 5. KIM defined as a region, if you did the same thing with Vojvodina, since the Constitution also provides for the same status for KIM and Vojvodina, if in the next few members you are discussing the position, status, obligations, rights and responsibilities of the province's authorities from Vojvodina, why do you bypass KIM in these same members? I again ask the question – why is Kosovo and Metohija, as an autonomous province for which you predict regional status, not intended to be a subject of regional development? Is this a message for those who want, unlike you and our misfortune, to deal with the regional development of KIM, and there are the EU and the United States, that, in one indirect and latent way, they leave responsibility and function and obligation to those who do not have the right to do so? Do you bypass your constitutional obligation to treat KiM, from formal and official, to informal and unofficial and places and ways, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia? All these legal acts and regulations adopted by this Parliament, not at all, must not bypass KIM at any point. Not so much for the moment we are in today, but for the time and our ambitions to preserve KIM and that all those who will come after us would have both constitutional, and legal, and any other obligation and basis to defend KIM as an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22417	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be appropriate for the government representatives to answer the questions we are asking. I think the issues are essential and ultimately, they go beyond the importance of the bill, and they concern the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it would really be too much and correct for the government to answer the questions we ask them. We have not yet received an answer to the question – how is it possible that double standards apply to countries to become candidates for EU members? I set an example for BiH. In BiH, he insists on uniting the country. A completely different concept is being applied in the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is required to be divided into seven regions. You claim that these are just statistical regions, and we argue that it is only a condition, that is, an introduction to something much more drastic, it is a division of Serbia into regions as administrative, territorial and political units, and it is not impossible for these regions to one day become even federal units, because the Statute of Vojvodina, which you are trying again these days to reconfirm and announce its confirmation in the Serbian Assembly, has even federalistic features in some of its provisions. It would be good for the government to answer the question – how is it possible, on the one hand, to choke Republika Srpska, that the High Representative in BiH insists that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska withdraws its conclusions on the transfer of competence from Republika Srpska to BiH and once tells us that Serbia can only enter the EU and that BiH, a completely artificially created state, created thanks to NATO, should be more unique than it is now, although it is the opposite of not only the will of the Serb people living in Republika Srpska and BiH, but I am convinced that the Croatian people living in BiH?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22419	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22420	Dear MP, I thank you for this question, for being able to give an answer that is positive for the work of this government and for the work of this ministry, among other things, and for the adoption of the draft law on regional development. Namely, there are no double standards. It is not an obligation to enter regionalisation invented for the EU, but to regionalise the needs of our society, the economic development of the region, raising the standards of citizens, the economy and all that it says. The EU believes that this is the best way and good practice shows that this is the way. It is an obligation to introduce statistical regions so that we can measure the degree of regional development, so that we can be users of European funds. As for Republika Srpska, I want to give you an answer that Republika Srpska, also, because of its citizens and the economic development of its regions, is entering into the process of defining the law on regional development and that, having insight into our law on regional development, is visiting Mladjan Dinkic in the past month, I cannot exactly remember the date when it was, made an agreement that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development should provide logistics and assistance in the development of the law on regional development and that was introduced into the protocol. Today, Mr Dodik, together with Deputy Prime Minister Dinkic, talks about these and other topics related to "full", related to the development of the region in BiH, or Republika Srpska, however you wish, and the law on the regional development of Republika Srpska will be defined by the reputation of this law that we have proposed to the National Assembly. As far as KIM is concerned, I'd like to refer you to Article 25. You can see that the basic principle of which the working group came from in defining this law is the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and at each point, we have taken care of every member of this law about integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22421	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I must say that what Mrs. Kalanovic said is not true. You have persistently tried to silence through the proposal for this law the fact that it is part of the Republic of Serbia, next to Vojvodina, and the AP KIM. As for double standards, you, Mrs Kalanovic, tried to avoid answering my question in a skillful way. I did not ask you to answer me about the regionalisation of Republika Srpska, but whether someone from the EU is asking for BiH to be regionalised. BiH is an international law entity. BiH may one day join the EU, of course, if it remains in the current solutions that BiH is a state and that the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH are only entities within the state. So that's what I'm talking about. I understand that Republika Srpska is asked for a lot of things. I know that many would love, even some in the ruling coalition, that Republika Srpska is gone, I know that some said in 1990 that Ali Izetbegovic was a man who has a cotton soul, and then, afterwards, this man with a cotton soul, killed who knows how many thousands of Serbs. I understand all that, but explain whether someone from the EU insists that BiH be divided into those regions of yours. I've never heard of such a condition. Secondly, Mrs. Kalanovic, it seems that you and I have not read the same bill. In the bill I have read, and this is cited as a condition for Serbia's EU accession. You have Chapter 6 – Explanation of the Bill's proposal, the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure: "It is very important that, at the time of the global economic crisis, the Republic of Serbia establish a legal and institutional system", an institutional system, that is more than the statistical region by definition, "in line with EU standards, which would be ready to respond effectively to the global challenges, which will also affect the regional development of the Republic of Serbia". So, as far as I understand it, the regionalisation of Serbia, and this institutional regionalisation, these are not statistical regions, these are not mathematical units, these are entities that have an institutional character, is a condition, in your opinion, for Serbia to approach the EU. My question is: if it is a condition for Serbia to be divided into seven feeds, why does no one ask BiH to be divided into seven, ten, fifteen or not? Answer that question, and for the answer you gave for KIM, I've already said I don't even know if I should comment on it. You have absolutely tried, in every way possible, to keep quiet the fact that in the Republic of Serbia, besides Vojvodina, KIM is also located. If you were going to say that, then you would say that in part of the law relating to Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22423	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22424	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to article 19 and pointed to several major proposals. First, it is incomprehensible that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been left out of regional development entities. The bill also makes it clear that the National Regional Development Plan is adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this national plan brings out strategies and everything else, which is natural. If the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings the National Plan, according to your proposal, we have even proposed to bring a policy of regional development, which is a different and better term, then how is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not the subject of this regional development, and this is everything else? Finally, when you look at 13 subjects of regional development that are mentioned, it is clear to everyone that it is a complex and expensive structure, which would not serve anything but to satisfy the particular interests of one political party that already has the power of certain state institutional resources, to help its own infrastructure and, through its own interests, to bind certain economic entities into so-called ‘. The areas. That's what you're trying to do with this law and that's what the DS allows you, and Serbian citizens shouldn't let you do that. The only natural, normal thing for Serbia's territory, as much as for the population as it has in Serbia, is to remove this massive and very bad structure that you have listed here. That's why we're asking to delete the other points when it comes to these regional agencies, etc. As for the AP Vojvodina, it cannot be equated with the region in this sense and cannot be itself a subject of regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22425	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22426	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. In Article 19, we come to the essence of this legislative proposal on regional development. It's a proposal to divide Serbia. As you can see, we have suggested that almost an entire article of 19 be deleted, because there are no AP KIMs in it as regional development entities, and the Ministry, and the capital, and AP Vojvodina. Explaining my amendment's refusal, the government of the Republic of Serbia called for Article 8(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. Exactly, but your law does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the autonomous provinces of the Republic of Serbia are AP Vojvodina and AP KIM. You deliberately left out the AP KiM because obviously you're following a policy that was first promoted by US Secretary of State James Baker here in the early 1990s, which he openly stated, and Professor James Baker. Avramov's sympathies were conveyed in her book "The Post-Hungarian War of the West against Yugoslavia", that Serbia should be reduced to the borders before the First World War, therefore, without Vojvodina, which is also confirmed to you by dear Andreas Cobel, the ambassador of Germany, who said that Vojvodina is 'new in Serbia', and that the issue of Vojvodina could be raised very easily. You're obviously moving in that direction, dividing Serbia. You now have new powers to help you on that path to the EU, but the EU requires you to do so. We quoted earlier examples that the main strategist of this regionalisation is not only Serbia, but also other countries, the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, which promotes the Vital Europe project, an old Pangerman project.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22427	Thank you, Mr. Alexich. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22428	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the spectrum of political parties in Serbia, the SRS is tasked with fighting Serbian citizens and preserving the integrity and integrity of its country, and then better and better quality of life. Now, Minister of Regional Development, or Assistant Minister of Regional Development, I have to give a second qualification, a lot to worry about. Since 4 June, this law has caused fear among Serbian citizens and Serbian radicals, although it has already created a mix of polemics and stories about it, and here is the statement by Mrs. Verice Kalanovic that this law will serve as a model for the law on regional development in Republika Srpska. We are concerned about the government whose dominant role Mladjan Dinkic, who serves to break the Serbian Corps, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in Republika Srpska, and has done so in other areas where Serbs live. I am concerned that in a few years, perhaps even earlier, we will be in a position to pass a new law on regional development or to make amendments to that law, because we have now knowingly, deliberately, abandoned the AP KiM, and the next move will be to abandon the AP Vojvodina. This is what citizens of Serbia and the SRS, no matter how much you get in, will not allow it, and we will do everything we can to explain to the citizens of Serbia that this law is not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22429	Thank you, Mr. Perry. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 19(5). The bill and the purpose of the amendment is to point out the inadequacy, or the incomparability of this law at the moment, or at the time when political tensions in the Republic of Serbia are high. We believe that there is no need to pass such a law, which does not contribute to calming the political and social situation, but increases tensions in society. In this context, we in the SRS can only assume what real motives were for the adoption of this law, whether it is to postpone the issue of the Vojvodina Statute, or whether it is to attract funds from EU pre-accession funds. In the case of only another reason, however, that is stated in Article 49 of this Act, in the context of Chapter 8, as well as in a slightly more obscured form of the reasoning of the bill where the urgency of the procedure is mentioned, then, as in the previous amendments, the following question is raised: is the so-called EU pre-accession assistance from the IPA Fund so important to the Republic of Serbia that it is necessary to propose a law that raises political tensions in Serbia, and in particular potentially endangers the integrity of the Republic of Serbia? On the basis of this law and the amendments that we have tabled, the question arises – was it otherwise possible to find these funds from the IPA Fund, which is so glorified by the authorities? A statement by former Serbian Deputy Finance Minister Milice Bisic, under which the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement brings a loss of 15 billion dinars only from customs and a reduction in VAT revenues in imports of an additional 2.7 billion dinar, shows clearly and unequivocally that it was possible to find these funds without making such a harmful law, only that there was a political will to withdraw the harmful decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU or for further taxation of the company "Delta". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22431	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word is Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22432	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment stipulates that point 6 in Article 19 is deleted, and these are subjects of regional development, in particular, of the Republic Spatial Planning Agency. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Republic Spatial Planning Agency, as explained, represents an entity in establishing an institutional mechanism between the Republic and the local level, which is necessary for the security and promotion of the region, as well as for the effectiveness and efficiency of business. If it comes from the fact that this law on regional development has also proposed the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development as a commitment made after the signing of the SAA, as well as from entities, the activities of entities formed by a new territorial organisation and their relationship, it is clear that this position is completely unnecessary, as each region would have its own public agency for regional development and the implementation of regional development policy, and if it is aware that there are three more levels of national agencies that would control, manage, implement regional development policy, it is clear that this is only an increase in the bureaucratic apparatus. Otherwise, it is the national council for regional development itself, as a state-level body that would affect the implementation of regional development policy, the National Agency for Regional Development, again as a state-level institution for planning and implementing regional development policy and, finally, the National Network of Associations for Regional Development, which is said to exist in order to implement regional development policy. If we ignore the real background of this proposed law, given the socio-economic situation that the citizens of Serbia are in, we think it is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22433	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22434	I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, on behalf of the SRS, in which I request that the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia be deleted as a subject of regional development. If we take into account the fact that IPA money, which should be essential to aid regional development, as well as the term of regional development for the use of this system of money consumption, we can conclude that the funds obtained by the European Commission must be used with strict respect for the financial rules of the institution. The funds must be separated from other appropriations, must be placed on a special account and used in accordance with the public procurement rules applied by the European Commission to non-EU countries, i.e. the threshold of the rules. Passes are being punished, illustrating the experience of neighbouring countries, examples for the sake of Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia. I only mention that Romania, in August 2008, was temporarily suspended 150m euros to boost agriculture's competitiveness due to a high degree of crime and corruption. Also, in Bulgaria in the middle of last year, the first suspension was suspended, and then more than 800m euros of aid was permanently seized. Two government agencies in charge of asset management have also been withdrawn. If you want to use IPA funds to explain Serbia's regionalisation, you must first deal with the degree of crime and corruption, because one part of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has contributed to the greatest contribution that crime and corruption in Serbia are at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22435	Thank you. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 19 of point 8, which refers to regional development entities, and in point 8, as one of the entities, a unit of local self-government is envisaged. The unit of local self-government may be, within the meaning of this law, a regional development entity, but only in a passive sense, since there is no framework for it to be an active entity in an economic and financial sense. What is important for local self-government is a place, a position established in local self-government by the National Strategy for Regional Development. The national regional development strategy was adopted by the RS government in January 2007 and found the main postulates of regional development, regional development entities and the basic guidelines, among other things, and the obligation to pass this law. The National Strategy has not been implemented in the right sense, in accordance with the provisions of this national strategy. The government of the RS and the competent ministry had to carry out an analysis of the implementation of the National Regional Development Strategy before they came with the proposal of this law and, within that context, establish the basic parameters of regional development for each local self-government that falls within the category of those local self-governments that fall within the order of regional development. What we never get, it's real information and real analysis from the ministries and other state bodies involved...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22437	Time's up. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22438	Article 19, as well as point 9 of this article, in fact, the whole proposal for a law on regional development, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, to Article 8(1). The constitution, which guarantees that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. This is, in itself, a very dangerous idea, such as the idea of the president of the state of Boris Tadic, who, following talks with US Deputy President Joseph Biden, went public with the idea of Serbia's regionalisation, of changing the constitution, without consulting at some wide level and a public opinion, because, ultimately, Serbian citizens would eventually decide on such a change of constitution. Article 19, and what is the second reason Serbian radicals insist that this law is not passed is to build up the state administration and form para-state authorities. We have been talking about this for nine years to all the governments and to all the congregational majority, who have caused chaos from the state authorities; there is no longer any knowledge of who is in charge, who does what. Today we have cases, let's say, to collect fuel, and there's no government responsibility, it's done by the Agency. There's talk of power collection – there's nothing the Ministry does about it, it's the Agency. You're completely conscious and deliberately...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22439	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS is clear. It is the only political party and parliamentary group that warns the public, although it is quite unpopular, of what this and similar laws will bring us, and that is that we will neither benefit economically nor politically, but rather, damage as a state of this law. It may not come to the approval of Serbian citizens, because it is much easier and nicer for everyone to accept false promises that it will be better, or that this law will bring more money to certain regions, but it is the fact that it will not be so. As a responsible political party, we have to say this, because one day some historian will study what we have been doing as contemporaries of this time and will probably come to the next conclusion – if the government had listened at this time or that time of the SRS, Serbia would probably go in this direction or that direction. I want to say that there is a way to strengthen Serbia, because it is undeniable that regional development is not the same, but that this is not the way. The evidence is that President Tadic himself, in Palic, a few days ago, at the celebration of the anniversary of the SVM, said that if we get to the confirmation of Vojvodina's statutes in the Serbian Parliament at the latest, we will launch the country's decentralisation process in its essence, which means that this is only one step between us and that is why the SRS fear of passing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22441	Thank you. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Radisha Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a law on regional development, with a proposal to delete point 13 in Article 19. The amendment proposes erasing point 13, which refers to district associations. The government's reasoning for the refusal of amendments states that the existence of district associations is necessary, as an institutional mechanism between the republican, regional and local levels and for the sake of efficiency in doing business. So, you first invent the regions, create "statistical disabled" and then invent the district associations, make these Dinkic statisticalally disabled sausages work. After the formation of statistical regions, there will be reconstruction, or reorganisation of many state institutions, administrations, councils, commissions, agencies, offices etc. This will lead to one foolish transmission of power, which will cause the greatest damage to the citizens. As the MPs of the SRS so far have pointed out, this law is extremely harmful, unnecessary and very dangerous, because it announces something that leads to the final decomposition and secession of the state. Speaking here about the need for economic unification of the Serbia area, the government, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic and his ministry, thought to draw the borders of the so-called "Mladjan Dinkic". physical regions, only the first stage in achieving the goal Western countries set for themselves during the 20th century. Finally, it is enough just to look at Article 19 and ask again the Government and the Government representatives – where is KIM in these 13 points of regional development entities? Point 3 reads – AP Vojvodina, and from Kosovo, as we can see, there is no sign of a voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22443	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 20, the subject of regional development is detailed, specifically, the AP Vojvodina. Already in Article 21 you have a definition of the capital as a regional development entity, in Article 22 – Agency for Economic Registers, in Article 23 – Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, etc. It is interesting that nowhere is it defined that the AP KiM, also a regional development entity, is in favour of our claim that you kiM have been forced out, not only of this bill, but, in practice, from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in general, that you are doing it in a planous manner and that you probably want to legalise the kidnapping of KIM from Serbia. There's an interesting question here. In this bill, you define AP Vojvodina as a region. However, the AP Vojvodina, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and an autonomous province, has the status. Which Vojvodina do you mean when you use that name in the bill? Do you mean Vojvodina as an autonomous province, or Vojvodina as a region? You wrote in this bill that Vojvodina has a double legal nature, a double legal status. It's a bit of a province. It's a bit of a region. I ask you -- how will we know which of these two Vojvodinas are referred to by a member of the law, when it refers to Vojvodina as a province, and when to Vojvodina as a region? In Article 20, you wrote – the AP Vojvodina through its authorities brings the Regional Development Strategy for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the National Plan, and carries out other tasks in the field of regional development, in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22445	Thank you. On Article 20, amendments to the same text were submitted by joint MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic, as well as by the MP Marina Ragus. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22446	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS made it clear in the context of an amendment to Article 19 that we are against it when it comes to statistical regions. We put out our concept of how to define it, because the lack of this law is that it couldn't come out of the whole concept of anomalies that were put here. The Vojvodina as a region, as a subject of regional development, is absolutely unacceptable. We think local self-government is the best subject of regional development. It can also talk about regional development within the Vojvodina, because there are large and significant differences in the development of certain parts of the Vojvodina. The development of the South Baška district is different than the development of the Northobanat County and the differences in that development exist. It's not the same in Subotica, Kickindi, Sombor, Pancheva, Zrenjanina and Sremska Mitrovica. We are now talking about that the Vojvodina itself, in relation to its parts, which are different, have different needs, different requirements for regional development, should be a special subject. The law says - we will define regions such as Vojvodina and then determine their degree of development. Everyone in the O.R. is clear about the degree of development. We have now invented hot water that Vojvodina's most developed region after Belgrade in Serbia, but we do not know what the degree of development of Somboro or Kickinda is any difference in this development, what the need is for these regions to develop. It is important that local self-government, cities, municipalities be subjects of regional development, as this will allow for more fair, clearer, and systematic regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22447	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22448	Dear Vice-President, honourable minister, respected fellow Members, I have submitted the amendment on behalf of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, to delete above Article 20 the word "Vojvodina" and that Article 20 reads: "Autonomous province through its organs brings a strategy of regional development for the territory of the Autonomous Province, in a scale with the National Plan, and does other jobs in the area of regional development, in accordance with this law." The amendment was submitted for the reason that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions two provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, and thus would allow the province's equal participation in regional development policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22449	Thank you. To the title above Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Doesn't anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must refer to this exhibit by my colleague, Papuge. You from G 17 plus welcome that the Leagues are bigger Serbs than you and that they see what you won't notice, which is that you consciously wiped out an autonomous province, KiM, from Serbia. Who guarantees that tomorrow, or in a few years, you won't do the same with Vojvodina? The question arises where are the real borders of Serbia for you, and at what point should the process of breaking Serbia be stopped? Otherwise, I have to look back at my previous exposure. You wrote in Article 17 paragraph 4 of this bill that the authorities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina gave an opinion on the programme of financing the development of the Vojvodina region. This, in practice, gave Vojvodina an exclusive right, which has no other region in Serbia, to give an opinion on the programme of financing the development of the Vojvodina region. Now a logical question is being asked – what will happen to the funding programme if the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, for example, gives a negative opinion? Will this funding program be stopped then? In Article 25. You wrote the bill that the President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina is also a representative of the Vojvodina region in the National Council. If you adopt that anti-constitutional statute of Vojvodina, then your President of the Executive Council will be Prime Minister and you will have to change this bill very quickly, or the law, because you will probably vote it, because the post of Prime Minister of Vojvodina will no longer exist; Vojvodina will have its own government, and will represent the Prime Minister. Imagine now such nons being national...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22451	Thank you. On Article 21, the amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, as well as by Parliamentarian Marina Ragus. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22452	The amendment continues to be amended to Article 20, precisely because Belgrade no longer needs to favour the rest of Serbia. It is truly amazing that, when regional development entities are determined, Belgrade has a special status, and that status, when it comes to the adoption of strategic documents and all that is important for development, has neither Nis nor Kragujevac nor Kingdom nor Sabac, any other city in Serbia. It is simply amazing that such powers are given to Belgrade, where there is, in fact, a fundamental contradiction, and we have not received any explanation from the government. They say – this amendment is rejected because it is necessary to ensure and improve the development of the Belgrade region... This is where we said there would be seven regions. Why? This kind of position of a regional development subject isn't, say, Kragujevac, who you're talking about so much. Here you directly reduced the importance of Kragujevci. Why is Kragujevac, or, as you say, the Central region, not a subject of regional development, but Belgrade? You simply don't give any answers, you fall from contradiction to contradiction. Recently, there has been talk of privatising the Belgrade Fair, that 50% of the funds achieved since the privatisation of the Fair will go to Belgrade. Power, capital, resources, and powers are again concentrated in Belgrade. We also had in the previous amendment, when it comes to Vojvodina, also as a special region, a case of neglecting cities in Vojvodina that have and how special powers such as Novi Sad, such as Mitrovica, such as Zrenjanin. So, you put in an unequal position central Serbia, compared to Belgrade and Vojvodina, and you're talking about even regional development. There is no "r" of even regional development in this law, by some inert and by the absence of power to place things in the right place, to say – there will be more statistical regions in Vojvodina than the region itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22453	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. To the title above Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vojvodina will be represented in the National Council by the President of the Vojvodina Executive Council. Tomorrow, when you adopt the statutes, he'll be Prime Minister, so you'll have to change this law on regional development very quickly, but now there's another question here. You wrote that the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, as representative of Vojvodina as an autonomous province, represents the region of Vojvodina in the National Council. If this government has no serious intention to give some kind of pseudo-stateness to Vojvodina, then a logical question is raised – why is Vojvodina as a region not represented by a director or member of a regional agency from Vojvodina? Why should Vojvodina as a region, as a statistical unit, not as a political unit, represent someone who is a couple of excellencies political personality? You'll agree with me, if someone's the Prime Minister, even the duchess, he's, first of all, a political figure. If you treat Vojvodina exclusively as a statistical region, as a statistical unit, without the intention of giving it any attributes of statehood or federal unit, why is Vojvodina in the National Council not represented by someone really engaged in regional development, but represented by the President of the Executive Council, and in what day will the Prime Minister be represented? Now imagine, all other regions in Serbia will represent people dealing with regional development as statistical units, only Vojvodina will represent the government of Vojvodina, not only as a region, but as an extremely defined unit, a political unit, which will also have some characteristics of a federal unit, well, even a completely sovereign state. You wrote in the Statute of Vojvodina that Vojvodina has its own government...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22455	Thank you. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Alexic. BORIS ALEXIĆ: So now in these members we come to the development of article 19, which envisioned this harmful solution, where the AP Vojvodina is mentioned exclusively, and deliberately abandons AP KIM. It is interesting, however, that of all opposition parties, only representatives of the SRS, the DSS and the NS have submitted amendments to Article 19, asking for a change in such a solution, which is indeed against the constitution, because the AP KIM has been completely expelled from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that the U.S. Vice President, whose visit was announced by the Financial Times, stated explicitly, their rapporteur, that his primary goal was to allow Serbs to accept a new reality and accept new borders in the Balkans. This Joseph Biden, among other things, has proposed that Serbia be divided into five regions, and you are introducing two more regions with this bill. A similarity is amazing, which some of you would say is frantic. I will also remind you that late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, in an interview with "News", in 2003, saying, among other things, on the EU's accession and the regionalisation of KIM, could explicitly point out that the process of establishing good neighbourly relations, which could possibly be imposed by the EU, could take decades. Approaching the EU this way, you are now leading to the division of Serbia and the establishment of good neighbourly relations with the AP KIM. That's why you're throwing the AP KIM out of all your bill, to make sure the citizens forget it, so MPs forget it. In doing so, when you refuse amendments to opposition parties, which are indeed opposition, and not those that create a two-party system with you, you give pointless arguments. Thank you. Thank you. To the title above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22457	This is a group of members who are working on that famous 19 member, excluding Kosovo and Metohija from the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I would have to remind myself again of, as you would say, a frantic fact, and I think it was announced by Mr. Micunovic, who, unfortunately, is not there when he asked Mr. Šutanovac's defence minister about Kosovo and Metohija as well. He asked him a question about Turkey's role in the Balkans. At that time, believe it or not, Minister Sutanovac claimed that Turkey plays a significant role not only in the Balkans, but all from Ankara to Vienna, meaning where Turkey was defeated and prevented its breakthrough in Europe. Among other things, the Serbian people have suffered great sacrifices to prevent Turkey's breakthrough. So, now certain DS representatives are promoting the resuscitation of Turkey's "dead hands", which is simply amazing, and of course, into that Turkish dead hand, at least according to what US Congress experts, such as Joseph Bodanski, are saying, enters both Kosovo and Metohija. In Congress reports, they call it "green highway," or "green transferzal." It is simply amazing that a party in Serbia, still ruling, is promoting the Green Transferzale project, which even criticises experts dealing with counterterrorism, such as Mr Bodanski, an expert in the US Congress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22458	To the title above Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22459	In Article 19, there are a total of 13 entities over which, under the proposal of this law, balanced regional development and entities will be implemented. It is obvious here that we have five entities that are first established by this law, as new institutions that you will load on the coat of arms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic, through this law, is doing the dirtiest jobs and those of which Serbian citizens will only have damage. Article 24(2) defines that the National Council will have a president and 19 members. It's one of these five newly established organs. Just to remind those who are prone to forget that around 8,000 Serbian citizens were employed in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, and now over 28,000 were employed. By these and similar laws, I'm afraid that you don't double this number, that this way you're trying to create one medium layer, and for everything else, to question their existence. Someone in the interpretation of this law, specifically, Mr Dinkic, said that the state of Serbia is one of the countries with the largest regional differences. The finding is also acceptable for members of the SRS, but large differences in the citizens of Serbia have created this power and has been intensive since 2000. We hope it won't last long and we from the SRS will continue to submit amendments to these and similar laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22460	Thank you. On Article 24, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22461	Mr President, Article 24 refers to the National Council for Regional Development. We are changing attitude 2, in which you say that this National Council for Regional Development should have 19 members, including persons who are in office, which are four people, presidents of regional councils. The DSS is against forming regional advice, because it is completely unnecessary, pointless, complicated and expensive structure. We think it only serves for one purpose, which is to calm down party appetites, which are obviously very large. We consider it necessary to have direct contact with local self-government. and this is possible by avoiding these regional councils. We also believe that if regional councils are lifted, their representatives have nothing to do here, therefore, you cannot know in advance the number of people to be members of the National Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22462	Thank you. On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22463	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 24 paragraph 3 of the Law. The purpose of the amendment is to point out the unnecessary increase in state bureaucracy and institutions, which essentially double the competences. This amendment cannot be observed separately from Article 25. Proposal for a law, from a member who determines the composition of the National Council. When the composition of this National Council is analysed, the essence of this bill is restored. In fact, he is a member of the National Council and so on. IPA coordinator. If these are added to the provisions of Article 26, Article 2, which regulates public promotion of regional development objectives, then the next conclusion is reached. The bill aims at propaganda, which is promoting so-called "promotion". The support of the IPA Fund, although, ladies and gentlemen, it is less than the losses produced by the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU, in the previous amendment we listed the assessment of Ms. Bisic, former Deputy Finance Minister, and it is incomparable, it should be clearly said, with the revenues of the company "Delta" for 2009, of about three billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22464	Thank you. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22465	The President, in Article 24, paragraph 3 is amended and reads: "The President of the National Council is elected from the ranks of members of the National Council". The amendment was submitted for the reason that the government and the ministry responsible for regional development already have sufficient instruments to create, implement and oversee regional policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22466	Thank you. On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22467	I'll use the time of the president of the Parliament Group. In Article 24, the basic text of the law defined that whoever chaires the National Council for Regional Development, in fact, should be the Minister for Regional Development, which we amended with the amendment, because if the Prime Minister holds the presidency of this National Council, then the real importance is given to that council itself, but also to regional development, which should contribute to the better life of all citizens. The five-year term, to which the term of office of members has been defined, is indeed inappropriate, and we have changed it to four years, referring to the election cycle of those acting as members of this body. The law provided for the deadline, but not the way members of the Council are resolved, speaks of the fact that there is no real consideration in this government of responsibility, the submission of resignations or resolutions for failure to work. It's just saying that some consider the function of power as a path, climb up to some kind of top, but not get off it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22468	Thank you. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs on Article 24 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24(4) in which I have requested that the position be deleted. It is a matter of defining this National Council for Regional Development, i.e. the length of the term of office of president and members of the National Council, which, as provided for by the proposal for a Regional Development Act, should take five years. The amendment has not been accepted, for the reason that the proposer believes that this article, in its fourth position, does not violate the unity and indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this argument for the refusal of amendments is not logical, because the whole proposed regional development law concerns precisely the violation of the unity and indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the national council itself, I will continue that story from a short time ago, as this national council on regional development, as a body, institutions at the state level, influences the implementation of regional development policy, alongside the National Agency for National Development, which is responsible for planning and implementing regional development policy. As part of the whole story, we also have a national network of associations and regional development agencies, which is said to exist in order to implement regional development policy. The regional development public agency, which is also at the level of the region, serves to implement regional development policy and has a co-boarded regional development agency concerning local self-government and sub-regional units, aimed at implementing regional development policy. So there is a total, in this proposed law, three agencies above the regional, one of which is authorized to implement, the other to implement and plan, the third, again, to implement regional development policy. Logically, the question arises – how many and what are the Agency's powers at regional level, if already three at the state level are engaged in the same implementation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22470	Thank you. On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22471	As with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24(5), in which I request that Section 5 be deleted. The main reason is that it is clear and generally known that only the Government has the right to appoint members of the National Council, but in this same article, in paragraph 3, it is said precisely that the President of the National Council and the Minister is responsible for regional development affairs. So it's doubling functions. I don't think this 5th attitude is necessary, and that's why I asked him to be deleted. If we have in mind that members of the National Council and ministers and certain bodies, the question arises – are we going to have two more governments; in one alone, instead of Cvetkovic, will be Mladjan Dinkic, because if the government's composition is the same, only different meanings, more precisely, roles, instead of prime ministers, we have a director or president of the National Council, who will have the role of prime minister, we can reach such a conclusion!? I would also remind you, Madam Minister, that only seemingly this law means the introduction of a region, i.e. Regionalisation of the state, because what the law calls a region has no legal subjectivity, nor was it possible by legal means, because in Article 128. Serbia's constitution is clearly said that the formation of a region or province is only possible by a procedure that includes changing the constitution. Not only do you not have a constitutional basis and constitutional norm to form a double government, but you have no financial opportunities that you justify by accessing IPA funds, by making this massive administration. Because of everything I've stated, I think the justification of my amendment and the foothold is that you don't have a constitutional basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22472	Thank you. On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party, Tomislav Nikolic, has defined this amendment as proposing for the chairman of the National Council for Regional Development the Prime Minister. We believe that the problems in regional development are very large, that there is great dissatisfaction with the citizens of Serbia, so the authority of the Prime Minister would guarantee that these jobs are being dealt with much more effectively and that these huge differences in regional development are finally starting to correct themselves in Serbia. It does not mean that we believe that Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic should not be a member of the council. With this amendment, in fact, I suggest that he be a member, not a president of that council. I would also like to say that this also fits in the political drive of the Serbian Progressive Party to, wherever we can, limit Mr Dinkic's power in some way, because we are convinced that he is very often misusing the resources available to develop his party infrastructure, and I am convinced that the vast majority of citizens are convinced of it. I call on you, however, to think about it, I think that regional development affairs are extremely important and that we would have a serious delay in business if Mr. Mladjan Dinkic manages them, and that in the day of voting you should define and accept the amendments of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22474	On Article 25, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22475	Article 25 refers to members of the National Council. We've already said we're proposing to delete regional councils, that's four less members. Also, we believe that a member of the Vojvodina government does not need and has no role in this council, and a representative of the Belgrade region is, in fact, a representative of the city of Belgrade and, according to our proposal, he is certainly involved in the membership of the Council. Furthermore, we believe that regions and their names cannot be established in advance, without applying certain criteria and in certain procedures. We respect the fact that the regions themselves must have their own representative and we believe that the best solution is that the government, having previously identified the regions, appoints one representative for each region. This is not particularly different from what the bill promoter proposed, since, like us, you do not consider the region to be an administrative and territorial unit. You say it's a statistical unit. Therefore, he cannot have legal subjectivity. That means he can't have his own representatives at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22476	Thank you. On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22477	The amendment I submitted to article 25 suggested that the position of the third member be deleted. This amendment is a perfectly logical amendment that I have submitted to Article 24, where I have suggested that it be deleted: "National Council", where it is defined as how many members there are. In Article 25, paragraph 3, which I have proposed to delete, it is said: "the administrative and technical tasks for the purposes of the National Council are carried out by the National Agency for Regional Development". As I have already said, in addition to the 13 entities provided for in Article 19, five completely new ones are introduced. It is unequivocally seen from this law that the first objective is the territorial division of Serbia, and the second goal - the accumulation of the administration, which we have more and more every day; there are almost no laws that are not proposed to introduce some new bodies, are mostly agencies. We now see that, in addition to the primary, harmful and dangerous ideas that divide Serbia's territory, you leave another possibility for later employment, first of all, members of the G 17 Plus party. It's something no one can argue with if they go out in the field. Madam Minister, you can't argue that either, because once upon a time, MP Vjerica Radeta said that in the homes of health, in the tax administrations, the moment the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic, only the staff members of the G 17 Plus party could be employed. That's how it happened, personally I don't mind a man who lives in Love being the director of the Tax Administration in Capco, a graduate economist, and how many of them there are unemployed in Capca alone, probably...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22478	Thank you, Mr. Perry. On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22479	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 26. It's a bill of law. As in the above-mentioned amendments, we again point to the application of the proselytic dogmatic ideology, which convinces us, despite reality, that it is more important so-called. aid from the IPA Fund, rather than the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the security of its citizens. How far away from reality and real life is the comparison between IPA funds and figures from the Republika Srpska budget adopted at the end of 2008. In that context, the total revenues of the budget adopted at the end of last year were around 8 billion euros. That, ladies and gentlemen, is more than 40 times the amount we're supposed to get from Brussels through the IPA fund. At the end of 2008, at the time of the budget, it was predicted that around 526m euros would be allocated to the economy ministry. So again several times the figure we're supposed to get from Brussels and via the IPA fund. With all this in mind, it is clear to anyone who has neutrally and without a sharp proselytic ideology analyzes this law, that it is unnecessary, inadequate and harmful, because IPA funds could have been found by additional savings in the work of state authorities, not by passing laws that, frankly, break the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22480	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment which meant that in Article 26, paragraph 2. The National Council publicly promotes the objectives of the regional development of the Republic of Serbia and encourages its implementation. In my amendment, I asked to add a text that reads – which does not mean paying for advertising and advertising. The government has given quite a disturbing explanation why my amendment does not accept. Among other things, it is said -- and after the public promotion of Serbia's regional development goals and the promotion of their realisation, it does not define the ways and mechanisms that this property will be carried out. Okay, I agree that something can't define all the ways and mechanisms that something can be done, but let's define ways and mechanisms that can't be done. Public promotion doesn't mean billboards. Public promotion does not involve payment of terms; it exclusively implies public debates, stands, press releases, etc. I ask the question, as soon as this law comes into force, as soon as the National Council has the resources, how much money will be paid for the billboards on which Mladjan Dinkic, G17, Boris Tadic, DS etc? How many advances will TV campaigns be paid? That's the practice you've had so far. And, one more thing, gentlemen from G17 and, as you like to say, ZES, stop taking pictures whenever something opens up to you, whenever a share of the trip is finished. It is neither the G17 nor the Mladjan Dinkic, nor Boris Tadic, nor the ZES, it is the money of the Serbian citizens and they are responsible for what is open, not you. You're just having these resources, how, we'll find out. It's better to open it up by some worker who climbed the decks to build some bridge, or some toll, or some agricultural producer. Let them open up those roads and objects of those who actually made them. They're Serbian citizens. Like this, you have a public debate that doesn't mean much to you. There are no more people you can fool into being capable of and being good at. There are fewer and, as the SNS president said, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Mladjan Dinkic and the G17 should be nurtured, so that we can win the next election as easily as possible. For some, it will be a transition to opposition, some will go into history, and some, of course, will send state authorities to prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22482	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22483	The amendment I submitted to article 26. The proposal for this law is logical to the previous amendments, from Article 24, where we provided for the National Council for Regional Development to be deleted. The position of the 4th member states that the National Council is giving opinions on a proposal for a programme to finance the development of the region from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. People living in certain local environments know best what these citizens need. If you wanted to take care of regional development, the image of Serbia would be quite different. One of the MPs invited his fellow Members, our MPs, to travel a little across the Western European countries to see how to live. I call on the MPs who do not, the MPs of the SRS do so and know that they travel through the cities of Serbia, to go to some villages of Serbia, in those who are called the village and have their cadastrian surface, and have no living citizens. Let them go to those villages where only one student attends elementary school and similar villages. While in some Serbian cities we open various gardens, there are neither sewers nor water lines in other cities. That would be a concern for even regional development, and you had a chance for nine, or almost ten years. You have gambled and missed the ban, and now you are trying through a law that is more frightening and completely unnecessary than it will bring any benefit to the citizens of Serbia. Give up such evil intentions for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22484	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22485	Thank you. The amendment that I have made on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group is to delete Article 26 of point 5, and this is about the tasks to be carried out by the National Council. Point 5 refers to the analysis of the principles and effects of the implementation of the government's policy and measures on regional development. I'm sure it would take me more than two minutes just to read who all the members of the National Council are. They are more than provided for in Article 26, according to what they should do, but everything expressed as an argument by the SRS MPs, concerning amendments to the proposed Regional Development Act, clearly points to the fact that the law is written with the sole intention of withdrawing any funds from the Regional Development Funds in the European Union, so that Serbia would appear, allegedly, as a regionalised state, with a tendency to mitigate regional differences, but none of these conditions are satisfied with what is offered in the document. There are, above all, no regions, it is clear that it is an attempt to collapse the state of Serbia, and there is not a single jurisdiction of regional character, because all of this is done by entities that are only engaged in implementing what has been set out by the competent ministry and this central national agency for regional development. Since it is clearly concluded that there is no regionalisation speech in this law, it is clear that it is much better to withdraw it from the congregation procedure than to allow it to end in such perfidious centralism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22486	On Article 26, the amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić, together, MPs Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, as well as MP Milan Avramović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22487	Thank you. Very short. And this amendment to Article 26 is the consequence of all the amendments we have submitted to the members before this. He's related to Article 19 when it comes to regional development entities. We have put the National Council in more places than you have predicted with your proposal, not to say that, since you did not accept that amendment on Article 19, you refused to be one of the subjects of regional development, which speaks of the relationship between the executive authority and the legislative one. It is simply amazing that MPs, in a peaceful atmosphere, are disowning their basic roles, which is to participate in all major projects for the country's development, including in this particular case, in Serbia's regional development. As for Article 26 himself, which speaks of the affairs of the National Council, the amendment proposed to delete point 6, which is that he co-ordinates the work of the regional councils. We are against it because we believe that regional advice should not exist. It is, in fact, what is harmful in this law, because it means multiplying the administrative apparatus and trying to, through this law, the party that will be in charge of regional development tries to restore its infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22488	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22489	I'll use, among other things, the time of the Parliament Club. With this amendment, we just want to point out that the central government has taken over too much power, so by eradicating this point 6) we want to kind of change this relationship between the central government and the one that is in direct application of certain decisions of the central government. For example, the National Council, which has the power under this provision of the law to co-ordinate the work of regional councils, has political representatives of the government, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, while the National Council President is the same minister, while among 19 members there are eight other ministers and one state secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Listening to this political discussion in the congregation, it is clear that the goal has been achieved. While one group of MPs is saying that this law is an introduction to some kind of regionalisation of Serbia, or decentralisation, the other group is talking about that this is a simple statistical regionalisation and that there is no word on any decentralisation, that it just wants to get the story out of the Vojvodina statutes and the Vojvodina jurisdiction law. However, it is obvious that when these two schools of opinion are opposed, or these two groups of debates, what was the government's goal when it put the law in the process -- to maintain the status quo, and the status quo is to remain in one centralised way of ruling Serbia. As it looks, it can also be shown in the 2009 NIP case. Let's say, of the 339 projects, only seven are foreseen for the province of Vojvodina, which, by the way, is based on this bill, only on the statistical region. So, every tenth project was adopted from those proposed by Vojvodina, which means that Vojvodina from the NIP for 2009 could get 201 million dinars, and that, let's say, Jagodina got 380 million, and that's how much the NIP predicted. When compared to the parts of the Vojvodina as far as development is concerned, it can be seen that two-thirds of the Vojvodina is below the average of development. If Vojvodina was thought to have moved into developed areas and did not need funds to develop infrastructure for other purposes, and that is why it is intended to adopt only seven projects, how about two-thirds of Vojvodina being below the average of development? We accept that Jagodina is below the average for development, however, in the same status is the Indjia, which is said to be developing, unfeeling. Therefore, this infrastructure that is being reconstructed, or reconstructed from NIP funds, is intended for undeveloped areas, and only three areas in the Vojvodina territory are intended to be undeveloped, these are Žitište, Nova Crnja and Plandište. So, of the two-thirds of Vojvodina, which is located, as far as development is concerned, below average, it is considered that only three populated places are those that can compete for the restoration of infrastructure. This is what it looks like when at the national level, at the central level, it decides who is developed, who is not developed and which region should be helped and which one is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22490	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22491	Dear People's MPs, I want to believe that you are convinced of what you have stated and that you have received this information from the competent institutions. The truth is, unfortunately, quite different. By the time the Constitution defined exactly how much resources were guaranteed by infrastructure development, investment capital development of Vojvodina, the NIP decided on the selection of projects, on projects that are being implemented and on the effects of these projects on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In 2008, the NIP only defined nine billion dinars, but did not decide on the selection of projects, nor followed their implementation, nor followed the effects, as it was within the competence of the Capital Investment Fund. In 2009, it was a year with 12 billion and 580 million that were defined through the NIP. Two-thirds of this is foreseen for national projects. The Corridor 10 project, implemented in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 10km south and 10km from Novi Sad, to the north, is a project financed by NIP funds. The national project to support the development of undeveloped areas, in which the three municipalities you have listed, is also a project financed from those 12 billion 580 million, not counting the funds defined by the Constitution. The national project related to the development of a technological park in India is also a project financed from the central level, because it is in line with the concept of the industrial development of the Republic of Serbia from the national level. The thesis you're talking about is the thesis that absolutely doesn't stand. In addition, if the NIP, from a national level, is found to be the partner of any European institution, all municipalities are considered. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that it is. The German Development Bank, which supports the development of water supply in Serbia, asked the NIP to run for project implementation. The fact is that four cities in Vojvodina, which are Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Vrsac and Pančevo, were taken into account, as well as four cities from central Serbia – Kraljevo, Šabac, Loznica and Smederevo, and this is clearly pointed out in the meetings of the municipality president. A loan from the European Investment Bank, which has also been a partner of the NIP since 2009 and beyond, which implies the development of infrastructure in large cities, is being conducted, regardless of the respect of the Constitution and the resources allocated to the Constitution for the Development of Infrastructure in Vojvodina, in all cities in Serbia's territory. I really want to believe that your exposure was well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22492	The word is Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22493	You only confirmed what I was saying, and my thesis is that it's about one central decision-making level of where the funds are going to go. Otherwise, we have before us a decision on the allocation of funds foreseen by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 for the realisation of the NIP. So I don't have all the information you've been talking about, but what I've listed is within this document that's in front of us. Therefore, you have only confirmed that the central government is deciding on projects, the central government is deciding which projects will be adopted, to which the funds will be allocated and in what amount in Serbia, whether it is the province of Vojvodina, whether it is any city or inhabited town in Serbia. You can't deny the fact that, say, Jagodina is supposed to, if it's paid, I really don't know, over 380 million dinars. That's the point and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22494	Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22495	Because you only use partial information, we come up with such a distorted image. If you took the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget this year for the infrastructure development of Vojvodina, according to the Capital Investment Fund, and the decision made by the Regional Executive Council, and put it in an annex to that decision, for example, you would see that that is not the case. I commend this time the Committee on Local Self-Government and the President who asked me to present on the Committee how the NIP is conducted on the territory of all Serbia. I think that, with enough arguments, the Committee was clearly presented to the whole territory of Serbia was covered by NIP funds and that those municipalities that had little to gain for, say, water supply had been through some other partner relations received through budgetary means, i.e. It is clear that what is given through one program cannot be compensated through another. It is a policy implemented by the Ministry of National Investment Plan and it is something which is the largest infrastructure support programme for regional development and more balanced regional development in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22496	Thank you. This is what we're done with. Mr. Palalic, you have no right to reply, because you, as chairman of the Committee, and your committee is praised by the minister, so I have to worry that we don't spoil it. I thank you for your understanding. On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 26(1) of point 7 concerning certain tasks of the National Council for Regional Development. The position of the SRS is that behind all this there is one political preparation for real regionalisation in Serbia, it is alarming, and, at the same time, the provisions of the Constitution point to the indivisibility of our territory. On the other hand, conditions and composition of the National Council are foreseen in previous members, but there is no room for national representatives anywhere. I would like to warn you of the provision of Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which treats the National Assembly as the most legislative body, representative and control body. Article 24, which refers to the composition of the National Council, says the National Council has a president and 19 members, but no national representative. I think there's also got to be room for people's representatives, especially in that control sense. This is where we received information from the Deputy Prime Minister that, in a regional sense, the relationship between the most developed and the most underdeveloped municipalities is 1:15. This should worry, because in the National Regional Development Strategy, the analysis shows that the ratio is 1:7. What does that mean? That analysis was done two and a half years ago. Has regional development, I'm sorry, just to finish, increased by twice compared to the data we received from the National Strategy and Regional Development analysis?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22498	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22499	Article 26, point 8) The proposal for this law is in fact the work of Article 19. (President: I apologize, be kind, just put down a little microphone, I can't hear you.) ) Thank you very much. Therefore, Article 26(8) is, in fact, the development of Article 19 which speaks about regional development entities. That's one of the reasons why we find this bill very controversial. We as regional development entities, when I say to me, think of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, predict the Government, Ministry and Ministry responsible for finance and spatial planning activities, in accordance with the law (I didn't quite understand what it means – Ministry and Ministry), AP Vojvodina, capital, Agency for Economic Registers, Republic Spatial Planning Agency (you show – in accordance with the law), Fund for the Development of the Republic, units of local self-government, in accordance with the law, the National Council for Regional Development (which was proposed when we talked about Article 19, among other things, because we have been talking for nine years about agencies that are ballistic and behind which all the governments of the Republic of Serbia are hiding). All the things that are not popular to decide and tell Serbian citizens are served by various agencies. They were accumulated somewhere around 103, and when you came into a situation to bring some programs out of the economic crisis, then government representatives themselves remembered that it would be good for some agencies to be abolished. It is only a farce, which was to be presented to the citizens of Serbia, that citizens think the government is thrifty and that it saves exactly on state authorities, but from the adoption of this plan at a session of the Government of Serbia, to the day of today, we had five-six laws that were passed and each one of them had another para-state organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22500	Thank you. On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22501	Dear fellow MPs, I will remain on the political side of this law for another short time, and then I will try to bring Serbia's citizens closer to the execution of this economic concept you are calling for as a reason to pass this law. In fact, the Serbian government was ordered to require such a law in order to further disperse Serbia. You've got a project assignment, you think you've successfully completed it and hence your pleasure. But I have to tell you, and that's a message to the government, not to you as a minister, you've just done your job, that the creators of the 1974 Constitution thought so too, so after 25-26 years, it's been shown how devastating that constitution was. In this way, I would also like to direct Boris Tadic's message to seriously consider whether he will sign and declare this law, which the majority of parliament will certainly adopt, because in this case his chair will shake a little bit, because the Constitution requires us to keep an eye on whether or not the President is ruling in accordance with the Constitution, because we claim that this law is not in accordance with the Constitution, which does not know this kind of region, but only talks about local self-government and territorial autonomy, talks about the environments, that there are areas that we could strengthen, which we could give some of these advantages, and that the state operates in accordance with the Constitution, and thus enable better and more balanced regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22502	Before we go any further, I have three notices to make. It is one announcement from RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic that the direct transmission will be up to 18 hours, and that they are not able to follow the Assembly's meeting in a direct programme afterwards. The video of the session will be broadcast depending on the length and possibility of fitting into the established programme scheme. The other information is that we're going to be working without a break today, because we started at 12 o'clock, so you can organize around lunchtime. The third, in accordance with Article 85, I determine that we will be working longer than 18 hours – until the end of the point that will be on the agenda at 18 hours, which is this. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, pop the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22503	Mr. President, I thought I'd look back on what happened in the assembly on Friday, but you, neither guilty nor due, only convey what's already done. As a member of Parliament and as deputy head of the SRS Parliamentary Group, for the sake of the public, I would like to say that this is obviously a very difficult topic for the Serbian government, for the parliamentary majority, and that is why we are doing this. On Friday, if you remember, at 5:30 we continued the session without direct transmission. Direct transmission started after two games, after one film and one cultural content show, about 15 to 1 p.m. and ended at 7:00 in the morning. Only those working on the third shift could see that, and they have no significant obligations. So you don't want the public to know what the MPs think about it. We are also working today, and I think that you are obliged to give an explanation of why we need to work after 18 hours, because that's what the Rules of Procedure, Rule 85, I think you'll know better than I do, I don't have it, I have it in my head, because there's got to be some reason why you're in such a hurry. We don't know that war is in place, God forbid we work till midnight without hearing or seeing anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22504	As before, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Until we get the parliamentary channel, we influence it as much as we can in the agreements, you're right, RTS puts us before the final act, but by 18 hours it's a long time and we can finish this part of the agenda. We're not going to move on to another one, and we're just going to fit in there somehow; no matter how hard I try, with your support, it would be like normal hours. I totally agree with you that every time that goes past 18 hours is not common, it's extraordinary, but it's precisely because of the importance of this law and the law that follows our obligation to do as much work as we can. If you're not satisfied with this, I don't have another explanation, and you can ask in the voting day for the Assembly to plead. I think we've tried that many times. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22505	I don't think you're happy with what you said, because you know that responsibility is on the parliamentary majority and the minister that we didn't start working on time, and we were already here at nine and we could work. We haven't worked your fault for three hours, we're late, and then we don't even have a break, we work after 18 hours, which means we're your prisoners here. That's how you behave, that's how you respect Parliament. We're going to have to, we don't want to, we don't want to respect it, but I certainly think the Rules of Procedure is hurt, that it's your fault, and that we need in the day of voting to plead our case against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22506	In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare the injury you pointed out today. To the title above Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Peric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22507	In the political color color, for the SRS, everything is neither black nor white, but we are trying to find together with the citizens of Serbia what reality is at this point. However, both Serbian citizens, and we, with such a government, with such a congregation majority, can hardly get to the reality, make our lives more beautiful and bearable, and this is evident from the proposal made by Mrs Pop-Lazic and from the answers you have given us. Ms. Verica Radeta has already reiterated what entities are foreseen by Article 19 of this law as entities of regional development and up to regular number 8, although it is somewhat unclear, these are entities and institutions that already exist and there is nothing to say about it; we want the AP KIM to stand here and treat the province with the same attention as the AP Vojvodina. There are five new institutions envisioned by Article 19, which only cost Serbian citizens and will allow the employment of members of the G 17 Plus party or some of the parties close to this party, especially regional development of political parties, as foreseen. One senseless, incomplete precision is contained in Article 27, Article 1, which reads – to carry out regional development, professional and regulatory affairs, the government will set up a National Agency for Regional Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22508	Thank you, Mr. Perry. On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to article 27 and in relation to the article. 28th and 29th. The bill, more specifically, with all those members who regulate the work of the National Development Agency. In this context, it is again clear from these provisions that the main objective of adopting this law, which potentially poses a major threat to the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, is to obtain so-called. help from the IPA Fund. This is defined by phrases on alleged aid for regional development projects financed from European funds. In reality, when we ignore these phrases about Brussels as a new utopia, this alleged aid on an annual basis will be comparable to those of transit fees for South Stream. At an annual level, it does not reach 1% of Serbia's 2007 gross domestic product, which amounted to around 30 billion euros. At the annual level, it is incomparable with the revenues of Delta for 2009, because, as you know, Mrs Forcan estimated those revenues at about three billion euros a few days ago. That is why it is necessary to take a realistic look at this data, not to distract the public and to pass laws that question the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. In practice, an even more unfavourable assessment is for the legislator and for these funds from the IPA fund, as it is known that it will not be fully realised in the promised vision and it is more than clear when the work so-called work is analysed. Brussels funds in practice. It should also be said that much less funds are being allocated to Serbia than to the surrounding countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22510	On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22511	I am still trying to explain to the government representative, Mrs Kalanovic, that these authorities, which are being introduced by this law, should not exist. I think this law could have had four or five members. We'd lose much less time like that, there wouldn't be a need to work without a break, or to work after 18 hours. It is not disputed for SRS MPs to work 24 hours, if they do those jobs from which the citizens of Serbia, the very ones who sent us here, will benefit from it. The first member of this law, according to you, could read – Serbia becomes a country of the region, there are the following regions. Another member could say that this law, in the realization of article 1, would employ a certain number, you could accurately specify, the members of party G17 plus, and that this law would take effect as you wish. It would take much less time for MPs and much less material goods than Serbian citizens. You are predicting the position of Article 2 of Article 28 as a sign of protection by the Agency. If I have proposed an amendment to Article 27, where the National Regional Development Agency is defined, that it be deleted, if an amendment to Article 27 is accepted, then the amendment to Article 28 is fully logical compared to the previous one and I think Article 28 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22512	Thank you, Mr. Perry. On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 28 and to the amendments that we have submitted to the article. 27, 28 and Article 29. They mention international and interregional co-operation again, whatever it means in practice. Basically, it's about the so-called. IPA funds, which are reportedly the only kind of solution to all our problems and therefore need to pass the law, according to this logic, raises the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. What an illusion it is, not only shows the data I previously provided on the revenues of Delta, or the gross domestic product of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, so figures that are incomparable to those from the IPA Fund, but also shows data showing how much funds per capita they receive from regional countries. For example, IPA assistance per capita, from 2007 to 2010, is in the region: in Montenegro – 192 euros, in Macedonia – 147 euros, in Croatia – 130 euros and in Serbia – only 103 euros. Whether it is just or not, or essentially an indication of incompetence and one important relationship with Brussels, these are already issues that are for another session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22514	Thank you. On Article 28, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22515	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that this article 28 is being re-sumed by what is famous – the services under contract, which we have criticised so much when we have discussed the budget. We believe that it is finally necessary to specify how professionals, or other non-employees, can engage in certain professional activities in competent agencies, or ministries. For this reason, we have also proposed that those professionals be engaged in accordance with the law governing public procurement procedures. I think this is a more precise way of determining what conditions, and what professional persons can be hired for. Therefore, contract services can be reduced to the least possible and we can avoid any kind of abuse, which is otherwise possible unless we have a clearly defined procedure and conditions, as well as criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22516	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22517	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we also said in principle that, in addition to this law being extremely bad and not giving any effect, it was brought only because of Article 5 – to define the regions, completely unnecessaryly by bringing confusion, at the same time it is an extremely expensive, massive, with many institutions, which should essentially take over part of the authority of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. If you take responsibility, their capacity to realize jobs is absolutely insufficient. In addition, through a series of competences, it appears that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will continue to play a key role in regional development, compared to all other institutions. We wanted this amendment to strengthen the institution of the National Agency with several other competences, because it should have played a key role in the policy and implementation of the policy of equal regional development, when, based on agreements with local self-governments and on clear analyses, the statistical regions, which will not be just seven and which will in no way constitute an introduction to some administrative division. I just want to say, on the basis of what Minister Kalanovic said when it comes to the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that it was a good session, with many analyses and documents, and that indeed information was provided to the members of the Committee on the Implementation of the NIP, except for that thing that was disputed at the sitting itself, which is that we do not have a document on the implementation of NIP in the field of Vojvodina. This is a big problem and the question arises – how and on what basis could the funds be transferred to the Capital Investment Fund, that it determines projects, monitors their implementation? We don't know how the NIP was realized, we don't know if in the capacity in which the NIP was realized in central Serbia we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22518	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22519	The third amendment is already on members of the work relating to the National Agency for Regional Development. It's one of the subjects of regional development that shouldn't exist. I have submitted an amendment at point 2 of this article, where the Agency is told what it is doing – it monitors and implements measures and implements development projects to improve infrastructure, develop companies and entrepreneurship, covered by regional development funding programmes. Among other things, the agencies are expected to organise and perform publishing activities. For everything you reach, you're just thinking about how to take as much money as possible from the citizens of Serbia, and as far as your relationship with agricultural producers is concerned, it's very easy to see where certain funds have been allocated to help agricultural producers, where they have been building facilities, or in some other way, and now they're obliged to pay interest far greater than the funds they received as aid from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Stop that kind of relationship, because you're trying to be warm and cool. At one point, when the citizens of Serbia were concerned about how to overcome the financial economic crisis, which you cover all your incompetence and all your relationship with the state and its authorities, you said that there were too many ministries, that they should be abolished, and then some of the ministers talked about that the ministries were not a big problem, the agencies were a big problem, which we from the SRS pointed out when we passed the Agency Act. You didn't look back, but, on the contrary, you're introducing these agencies...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22520	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22521	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 29. This member regulates the work of the National Agency and essentially foresees the application and implementation of development documents. What does this mean in practice and how unrealistic is this promislative law that raises the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of these funds, shows the following example. Former Finance Minister Gordana Lazarevic said the IPA Fund Framework Agreement provides for the following -- each year Serbia should submit projects to be financed from the EU's three-year budget adopted in 2007, and then for each year projects to match the amount of funds it is intended to provide. Then the former Assistant Minister of Finance said the following, very important – that does not mean we will get that money. "For this sum, they compete with certain projects that are being evaluated and received direct assistance. ''So, this unrealistic utopian blindness of the EU practice is something else entirely. We also have an assessment of the Slovenian lady, an expert on EU pre-accession assistance. At a seminar in Belgrade on 5.12.2007, she presented information that Greece, which is a 25-year member of the EU, managed to get only 70% of the aid because it had no good projects. In that sense, the question arises – if one Greece, which has better capacities each year than we, gets as much as Serbia will in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22522	Thank you. On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22523	Article 29 regulates competences, i.e. tasks to be carried out by the National Agency. We said that the National Council is a paradic institution, which should present great care for regional development, but, in fact, the National Agency, which will succeed the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency and take over some of the people, equipment, resources and businesses from the part of the Ministry of Regional Development that deals with infrastructure, will do the jobs that are listed under points 1 to 11. Some really concern stories about regional development and the need to prepare certain projects and compete with them, although these jobs could not be done in this country, for example, in 2007, in an appropriate way, so our approved loans were not withdrawn. I remind you of the 2007 final account data that we paid close to a million euros interest on undrawn funds because we failed to do the following jobs. I wonder, then, why did the Agency, in addition to regional development, contribute to the organisation and execution of publishing activities, the preparation and implementation of the programme of education of instructors and consultants for the needs of the development of companies and entrepreneurship and take part in the activities belonging to the country's monopoly, such as the chamber system, which is the issue of public documents? If someone thinks themselves capable, let's be able to expose ourselves to the market, so let's check out ourselves, and let's see how competitive they are themselves, and not that we all need to be exposed to the market in our own quality, tenacity and work in a different way, and some always have to issue some papers for which to pay a membership fee, some contribution, which allows authors of such laws to have a pleasant and easy life. That practice needs to stop. What's a practice that has to stop at this time of crisis, that's next. We set up countless many agencies which are, in fact, para-state bodies doing jobs that are normally in the jurisdiction of the Ministry and the ministries and banking systems, which are based on regulations, such as various subsidy regulations, but it is the highlight of cynicism to determine for itself the work of preparation and realization, the education of instructors and consultants. I will remind citizens only of the licensing of bankruptcy managers, who also took special training and educate themselves, and then celebrated in public an affair on how many tens of thousands of euros they set for themselves as a compensation for success in bankruptcy. Then, the licensing of brokers, portfolio managers, by 4,000 euros, licenses are paid for that kind of document, not to say paper, not to devalue the knowledge of these young people who have used various shortcuts to come to this job and get selected jobs in selected institutions, and besides, someone always has a secure profit that drops in the organization of these and such licences, seminars, training, etc. This is a lesson that you learned well from foreign donors, later investors, starting with the first loan from the World Bank's Trust Fund in 2001, where 6,000,000, not billions, 6,000,000 dollars – 3.950,000 return to foreign consultants, and according to an international contract ratified at a meeting like this in the Federal Assembly in September 2001. Are you able to understand the execution of these powers, and it's high time you stopped that practice?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22524	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22525	And in this amendment to Article 29, which determines the obligations or responsibilities of the National Agency, I must underline that it is essentially a matter of forming new jobs, forming an agency by the director or minister of employment of the G 17 Plus staff, Mladjan Dinkic. If we take into account point 5, which it says - prepares and implements the education programmes of instructors and consultants for the needs of the development of companies and entrepreneurship, I think that by this bill and this point 5. you have absolutely recognised your inability to develop the economy and society, which you need a consultant or instructor. I ask the question – is there any possibility that this consultant or instructor might be a foreign person, since you are obviously unable to preserve economic development or entrepreneurship? The essence of the discussion is not strange, considering your experience so far, starting with the Privatisation Agency, which destroyed the economy, and starting with your experience of developing the economy through the Kragujeva's "Fiita" programme. I'm asking another question. How do you plan to conclude a system of protection for the development of companies and entrepreneurship if in the G17 Plus party whose director proposes the establishment of this agency, crime and corruption function, because this is what is the biggest disease of the economy and of the economy, especially the development of entrepreneurship? So, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this agency has no task provided for by this law, nor does the law have the obligation provided for in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22526	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, this amendment of mine refers to Article 29(1) point 7. The suggestion is to delete the point. The reason is the general position of the SRS that it is another agency that will suck up some of the funds from the amount of funds planned for regional development. In terms of the economic and financial crisis, we set aside and will set aside limited funds during the ongoing period, I say limited on purpose, because we have less and less each year, and we need to refer in particular to certain data and facts relating to certain financial resources that have fallen into the financial system of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2001 to today. About 16 billion euros of foreign direct investment has entered the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. The question is, how much is really invested in regional development? No one knows. Why? Because we're not running an analysis, we don't have a final bill here so we can prove it. On the other hand, privatisation has been brought to an end, as far as the social sector is concerned, and more than three billion euros has been pumped into the financial system and into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but is not pumped where it should have been under the Law on Privatisation, the Development Fund and, through the Development Fund, into regional development. None of this has been done and therefore we have this proportionality between the most developed and the most underdeveloped, which, according to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, is 15 times. This is what you should be concerned about. This is what it takes for you to create a prerequisite for you to say. There has been enough of what we have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22528	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22529	It is quite difficult for these two minutes, which you broadly, democratically, assigned to the opposition, to explain the amendment, and in particular to draw attention to the essence of the proposal of a certain member, as well as to the whole of this law. Once again I return to Article 19, let me ask Mrs Kalanovic - can you, Madam Minister, swear here, in front of the National Assembly, that for filling out, let's say, the National Council for Regional Development will call some contests, or will there be, as in all your agencies, settled party people, or perhaps you'll pour out the hollow into empty space, and some, who will be fired at the Ministry, will be transferred to this national council? What will this national council, or the National Agency, have already come to, what jobs, among other things, will we do? It will carry out the tasks of international and international co-operation under its jurisdiction. This is very problematic – who can give and what is the responsibility of the National Agency to carry out international and interregional co-operation? Why are we serving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? That's the first question. Second question - interregional co-operation. Here, this is another piece of evidence that we have been right since the start of the debate on the proposal for this law, that it is not the intention that you represent, but rather the dangerous intention of dispersing Serbia and the precondition for this and for some possible change of the Constitution, although it is entirely illogical for someone to pass some law that would be a prerequisite for changing the Constitution, but you and Boris Tadic obviously have that intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22530	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22531	Another agency, the National Agency, that's her name. The state, in our opinion, is slowly but certainly becoming the largest employer in the state of Serbia, which cannot be good. The EU has made it clear to you that it wants us to strengthen regional and local development co-operation, with a view to contributing to economic development and reducing regional inequalities, but has not told you how to do it, at least not publicly, although Biden has said what he wants. You could have done so through strengthening local self-government and you would have been completely in line with what the EU expects in this accession process, through which you are going; it could be quite pleased with what you are doing. No, you have made a political decision, which will cost us dearly, and, in return, Serbian citizens will not benefit from it. I'll give you an example. I was called by some people from the inside the other day. Let's say, a gentleman from Valjev, who asked me, about this law -- which city will now be the capital for me from Valjev, since it is not Belgrade anymore, we do not belong to Belgrade, but to this Western region? Does that mean the capital is now my destination, Uzice? Yes, I do. It is that Belgrade is closer to him, but he will have to go to Uzice. So we're making one transmission from the central authorities to the local authorities, another in a chain of opportunities for corruption, for the greater cost of the state, all of it from citizens' pockets, and they're not getting any of it in the local environments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22532	Thank you. On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 29. I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on regional development, so that point 11 of point 1 is deleted, which reads as follows: "The National Agency is also performing other tasks in accordance with the law". In the case of the National Regional Development Agency, it is best to see what the SRS has indicated. This law will allow, in addition to breaking the state, and the creation of a new administration, possibly a party, which will further burden the state budget. We're going to have a new agency, an old agency, and that agency is going to be further dismembered into regionals. This means that seven mini bureaucratic apparatus will be formed in some way, but not only as regional agencies, but also to other entities described in Article 19 of this Law. This national agency has been given great powers and this can be seen in Article 29. Then we can ask ourselves, where is the state, where is its authority, who, through the national agency, is entering the jurisdiction of the state authorities? It is the impression that whoever manages the National Agency for Regional Development, that, literally, bright, and clothing in all regions, because the Agency prepares and implements the development of documents, implements development projects for improving infrastructure, companies, regulates the conditions for access and implementation of projects financed from European funds, donations, etc. Everything life means has to go through the National Agency for Regional Development and there is a mechanism for abuse, for selective project orientation and means towards those who may be the same party...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22534	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22535	When so many amendments and so many amendments are submitted to one draft of the law requiring the erasure of certain provisions of this law, then it can mean two things – first, either the whole law is conceptually bad, or, secondly, many members of this law are poor, inadequate and should be deleted. Here's the first thing, the law is conceptively bad. Mladjan Dinkic, when explaining the law, said he was an important step in decentralisation of Serbia. In addition, he said – how to preserve the country's sovereignty if we do not have a population in some parts. This is not a law where it means that it is decentralisation, but simply the breaking of Serbia. Never could the sovereignty of a country be preserved by its breaking and disintegrating itself, but only by preserving its unity, then by respecting its integrity, by strengthening its defence power, by respecting all citizens living in it equally, not selectively. But when the minister clearly tells us that if there is no population anywhere, there is no sovereignty, is it not, in translation, special recognition of the illegal state of Kosovo, as well as the beginning of Serbia's feud? That's why it's best that you withdraw this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22536	On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22537	We are still logically continuing to submit amendments to this bill, given that I have submitted amendments to the article. 27, 28, 29 of this law, which speaks of regional development agencies. I have submitted the amendment to Article 30, where it is said that the supervision of the work of the National Agency is carried out by the Ministry. On the condition that it is some quality law, which the SRS should support, we should not be able to do so, because it is not defined which ministry is overseeing. It certainly comes from an absolutely unacceptable law, not only for the MPs of the SRS, but for every real representative of the people, i.e. Serbian citizens. It is true that Minister Mladjan Dinkic said the law would contribute to decentralisation. I ask you now, if some new authorities and agencies appear between the Republic of Serbia and its state authorities and local self-government units, is it decentralisation, or is it an attempt to sell intelligence? These strong bodies and organisations need to be established, their work should be designed, a quality way of taking funds from Serbian citizens, and they should be agreed on. The smarts have our citizens, they have agricultural producers, workers, and students, and all those who live in this Serbia. Give us some work, organize a little business environment. Mrs Kalanovic, also review the programmes that have been applied to your ministry and what funds you have all approved for some programmes that will not lead to the employment of any new workers after the end. On the contrary, it will create even greater differences in certain places in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22538	To the title above Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22539	I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, i.e. to delete the title above Article 31, where regional development councils are discussed. The National Development Council is therefore not enough, but the Regional Development Council should also be introduced. Mrs Kalanovic, you represent the government here today and I know that you were in Koserić during the election campaign. I don't know if you know the village of the Cutch River. It is a pioneer in the development of rural tourism in Serbia. For over 35 years, these activities have been done by one or two families today. If you really wanted a balanced regional development, it is no longer necessary to repeat what the aim of this law is, but to want that, in addition to over 106 agencies that have been established so far, I don't know how many will be by the end of this week, or after voting on these bill proposals, that you remembered at least to suggest that one has headquarters in the town of Koseric, then you would show that you really want all parts of Serbia to develop evenly regionally. But you'll never do that. You are not at all naive and unprofessional and, Mladjan Dinkic said, he is not stupid either, it is only a pity that he and his associates do not apply everything they know and what they have learned by schooling in another system and regime to the benefit of Serbian citizens. If you were doing so, then the EU would appreciate you more, which you blindly trust and carry out all their tasks, regardless of what price is regulated for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22540	Thank you. On Article 31, MP Miroslav Markicevic proposed, with one amendment, the erasure of the article. From 31 to 40. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Correct me if I'm wrong, just before you told us about why we're going to work longer today, you've divided the laws into those that are important and those that are irrelevant. Irrelevant work until 18 hours, and important after 18 hours. That's what you told us, and I'm not sure I got it right. Let's get back to the amendments. So our amendment to Article 31 refers to regional development councils. It seems to me that this member that we have proposed to delete is completely pointless, because in addition to these regional development councils, you predict that they have a president and an x number of members. That probably depends on the number of regional G17 field leaders. What's even more interesting is you suggest that their term of office lasts five years. Nor does this semi-private and semi-party arrangement seem to cost the citizens of Serbia and how much, because all these people who are from the field, from the local community, and regional and regional, and so national, someone should support, because the structure looks like this: national councils - national agencies, regional development councils - regional development agency, district association - district agencies. How many people is that and how much is that gonna cost? You know about money, tell us how much it costs the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22542	Thank you. There are no irrelevant laws, as you know. On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22543	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to article 31 of the Law. It is again the work of the law dealing with the National Regional Development Agency, which is more than controversial. It also has the authority to deal with international co-operation, which again is an inadequate solution, which raises the international and internal stability of the Republic of Serbia. Why this is done and what are the justifications for such, mildly said, unusual and unserious drafts of the law, is clear from previous presentations of our MPs and our amendments. The promise is to help Brussels and the IPA fund, which is supposed to solve all our problems. However, this neotitoistic concept of a new utopia on some kind of Brussels Union, in practice, deny the following data. What is the difference between reality and false Euro-Union promises, according to a statement by Mr Raul Kunja of UNMIK. He said, literally -- UNMIK in Kosovo spent 4 billion euros. Even 80% of these investments were spent on consulting services and building capacity, which they did not build. That 80%, or two billion euros, has been returned to the EU, but only in two or three countries. So the EU pays as a whole, and two or three countries profit. Profit is the right word, so extending this situation is probably in their best interest. If we look at this data and reality, it's clear to us that if the Brussels bureaucrats behave like this to their loved ones at KIM, we can only assume what will happen to yours and to our vassal officials who meet all the conditions of Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22544	Thank you. On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22545	First of all, I'd like to make a few more details about the regional council. What are regions and regional councils in general, except that their mandate is five years, except that local elections are regular every four years, and we can see that they can't be regular, that there are extraordinary ones, except that they are members that we don't know how many there are, who name and ask in what way, besides data to go from seven regions plus 19 members, that each region has its own advice, its own agency and its own district association? We ask the question – who will pay for it and from where? In addition to having this offer of regional development councils, we expect that under decentralisation or regionalization, however you want, invent some new jobs, given that it is the only mode of survival of the company G17 plus. For example, you can appoint a ten-year president of the municipality, the director of the municipality, the mayor of the municipality, the chief of staff in the municipality, the head of the unemployed in the territory, the head of the public for up to 30 years, and so on. So the proposal that regional councils have a five-year mandate is absolutely unacceptable to find this law in general in the process, because the minister himself once said that these regional development agencies and councils will be able to be a little more independent only after two years and that they will then be able to self-finance. For all that the minister has said, give them a two-year term, and then, as the deadline goes, so be it for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22546	On Article 31, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word is Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22547	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the purpose of our amendment is that this five-year term applies only to the public civil sector, as well as to representatives of institutions and organisations from the local self-government concerned, because in the event of a change in the structure of government in local self-government, it is completely pointless and illusory to expect that this representative of a particular political group to remain in the regional council for a full term of five years. However, it is obvious that the government had no intention of making this developmental regional council functional in any way, since all these regional councils are constructed, elected and appointed by the government. So we return to the basic thesis that it is about further centralisation of Serbia. Otherwise, how do you understand that this council, as far as Belgrade is concerned, is being established by 18 representatives of the city, or city municipalities in Belgrade, one representative of the city and 17 representatives of the city municipalities? Then this body will have significantly more than 20 members, and in Vojvodina, for example, 60 representatives of municipalities plus representatives of the current and future city municipalities in cities, and together with external members, the council will have hundreds of members. If it is thought not to be appointed from each municipality by one member, it is again the Government that decides from which municipality the members of the council will be appointed. So it's about some big, non-functional bodies, which won't have any ingenuity as to the basic functions they're intended for. Otherwise, the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government confirmed what I'm talking about. I remind you that, without the statutes of the Vojvodina and without the law to determine the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, all the funds that are transferred to any fund on the territory of the Vojvodina and how illegal and unconstitutional. The fact that we do not know whether these funds have been identified at all and for which projects, whether they have been returned to the Republic, we do not know for which purposes they have been spent, remains the issue of centralization, i.e. This kind of governance of Serbia, we don't have a functional exercise of power, because money is lost. It's the essence of everything where the money is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22548	On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The word is Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, by reading this proposal for a law on regional development, I have seen all the senselessness of this and this law, given that this kind of decentralisation is not decentralisation. I will not be as sharp as my colleagues to claim that this is Serbia's secession, although at first I could agree with it, but I can see that you have found a new way to get the funds, this time from EU accession funds, but I fear that the least benefit from these funds will be from users who need the most funds, and these are local self-governments. The right and essential decentralisation would be at the level of local self-government, which the SNS stands for, and not at some regional level, for which I cannot find any specific meaning other than some formal virtual decentralisation, which is the essence of fostering the remaining members of the G17 plus party. I'll explain why. Although I find this law difficult to fix with amendments, it is almost impossible, I have submitted the amendment, for one single reason, which I am familiar with the stubbornness of the G17 Plus people and the sustainability of such and similar nonsense. The evidence for such claims is also Article 31, which represents the term of office of the president and members of regional development for five years, which is neither appropriate nor logical. The amendment I submitted ahead of the SNS envisions a reduction in the duration of the term of office from five to four years. To remind you, the members of the Regional Development Council are representatives of local self-government, representatives of urban municipalities, representatives of the Government, etc. So these are all political functions, but with a term of office of no more than four years; only members of the council will have a five-year term. The way I see it, you're aware that after the next election, the authorities won't be able to hold on to as much money flows, or you think, on the other hand, that you'll be at those functions for life. As far as the government's reasoning is concerned, it is so pointless that I have to read it to you, purely for you, Madam Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and citizens of Serbia, because it seems to me that even young children would give a more meaningful and better explanation: "Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the term of office of the president and some members of the regional council is related to the electoral cycle and may be shorter than four years, or longer than four years". It can't be longer than four years, it can be shorter, because everyone who's going to be a member of the council is being set up for a period of four years, so it says in all the laws, except here. The bill is very clear – the term of office of the president and members of the regional council takes five years, which is Article 31, while Article 24 says - the term of office of the president and members of the National Council takes five years. So no less, no more, lasts five years. Unfortunately, you did not foresee this bill or the way it was resolved. It's just, for five years, and that's it, God forbid some death case of one of the council members, he stays a member of the posthumous council. You can convince me that I am wrong by accepting this amendment, as well as amendments from all SNS colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22550	On Article 32, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Pejcic Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22551	Thank you. Mr. Chairman-in-Office, the respected presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, the DSS MPs, in the debate on the principle and in particular criticised this law and through the form of the amendment offered a brand new law on Serbia's regionalisation. We believe that structures such as advice, such as agency and various associations, are too high, too bulky and expensive for Serbian citizens. I will remind you that when the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic is inaugurated here, the new government will work to relax the state administration for some 8,000 new jobs. By this law, the government is denying itself. We believe that this amendment of ours is and how it is established and that it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22552	On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22553	Since I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, where I have suggested that the "regional development council" be deleted, it is quite logical to submit an amendment to Article 32 and to delete Article 1 where Article 1 is defined and to specify who makes up the regional council. The members of the regional development council are representatives of units of local self-government, as well as representatives of urban municipalities, representatives of the public and civil sector (here, a new form is being introduced to represent the interests of Serbian citizens, i.e. local self-government), as well as other institutions and organisations from the territory of those units of local self-government, as well as a representative of the government. If you already have a National Council formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is it still necessary to form a regional development council, which will consist of representatives of local units of local self-government, as well as representatives of the government? I think it's completely pointless, but to see that three essential elements, or three essential components, or the goal of putting this law on the agenda and its adoption. The first is that you are planning to prepare for breaking Serbia's state, the second is to house a large number of members of the G17 Plus party, to ensure that the potential voters that will forever seem to be able, as you wish, to control the financing of the Republic, or the state of Serbia, and the third is to raise some funds from access funds and not invest them in the interests of Serbian citizens, but in your companies, in your projects, because you are taking care and care for the balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22554	On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22555	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment to Article 32. It's a bill of law. Once again, as in previous amendments, it is the regional development agency, but this article, as we can see, is also talking about the so-called. The region of Vojvodina. Of course, anyone who is neutrally and without persuasion analyzes the situation in our northern province is clear what is going on there, especially after two phrases, or Mr. Pajtic's statements. The first is his publicly expressed desire to be commissioner in Brussels, which is almost incredible for one of the officials of the Republic of Serbia. The second is his euphoric statement on the adoption of the Duke's statutes – "good morning, or good day, Vojvodina", which is once again an unsuitable phrase for the senior leader and member of the DS, the ruling party. Perhaps those phrases would make sense if the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia had the opportunity to live better because of the so-called. IPA funds. However, the following data from neighbouring countries show that it is again a neotytoistic, or pro-Bristian utopia. In 2006, it was announced that Croatia used funds for projects under the "Karc" programme, with a percentage of 97% to 99% for 2001 and 2002. It was better use on paper than in other so-called. traditional countries, where it averaged about 60%. But the Croatian morning list is 4. 2. In 2007, he stated that a large part of the amount that the EU, through financial support, invests in Croatia, is returning specifically to EU countries. That's the reality, the rest are phrases that lead to this kind of harmful bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22556	On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to remind ourselves of a few facts, first of all, that Serbia, when signing the Association Agreement, has pledged to carry out a classification within four years of the signing and here is an example of how all those provisions are violated in order to achieve a goal that is binding on some agreements. Thus, the draft law states that the boundaries of statistical regions are defined according to Eurostat's recommendation, and they speak – NUTS 2, i.e. region, province, territory covering 800 to 3 million inhabitants. However, the law envisions the formation of the Eastern region, which will be shown in the 2011 census as an area with less than 700 000 inhabitants. By the way, in order to justify the formation of the statistical area, the legislator includes the composition of the law, quite illogically, the Pyrotski District, from which local authorities have already arrived, because it is natural for the district to be part of the South region. For the purpose of collecting enough population, the proposer had to go against the natural logic and interest of the citizens of the area. Through this simple example of adopting what is not naturally compatible, it is proven that you have a greater obligation to the Agreement than to the citizens of Serbia. If we take into account the fact that you must respect these norms, not the citizens of Serbia and their interest, it is clear that you care about the citizens of Serbia the least, so that the story of even regional development is absolutely, peopleally speaking, unable to drink water when you have done this type of offence in the worst possible and harshest way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22558	On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 32(5), which I have requested to delete this position. The stance concerns, just for Serbia's citizens to say, administrative technical services for the needs of the regional development council. This is foreseen by the regional agency for the region, i.e. the National Agency, until the establishment of a regional development agency. The Serbian Radical Party is concerned about the multiplication of regulatory bodies, including these transactions provided for by this member, i.e. the position. It would be interesting if the draftr of this law had come out with data on how many new employees there will really be in these agencies, how much money will be invested in this way, that we have received in a transparent way how much will really be allocated for regional development, and how much for the administration that will serve, by doing administrative and technical and all other jobs for regional development purposes. So far, experience has been telling us that huge funds for regional development have gone to other kinds of spending, among other things, and to do administrative and technical work. It is the task of each national authority to provide national representations, i.e. the National Assembly with information on these costs, when proposing the law. Why? They're important. They are the foundation of the talks, the discussions on the subject we are talking about, and must show all the advantages and disadvantages in employment. The SRS advocates employment, but not in state institutions. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22560	Thank you. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22561	Thank you. The whole section 7 is, in our opinion, too high, therefore, regional development advice is unnecessary and they are in the context of what we talked about on Friday night and today all day long. It is absolutely unnecessary, in our opinion, to have regional developmental advice. The National Council and the National Agency are, at least, supposed to do so, feasible and possibly have such capacity to carry out all the jobs that are scheduled to be done by the Regional Development Council, I apologized just before the agency. Even if we compare Article 33, which is envisaged for the regional development council and for the National Council, it is evident that there is a overlapping of competences and that these are more or less similar things, it is only a formula for them to coordinate regional development, and these developments at regional level, etc. All these members for whom we have proposed to be deleted in Section 7, 8, including Section 9, which concerns regional development agencies and district associations, are all in the function that we have repeatedly mentioned, which is why and what is the proposaler's intention, that by networking its party people try to control investment and projects on the ground and to employ a certain number of people. This is indeed an excessive administration and a massive apparatus, which will not lead to even regional development. We suggest that also Article 33, my colleague will later...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22562	Thank you. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22563	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to article 33 and it is again a regional development council. Similar amendments have been submitted to other members that regulate this part of the law. Our amendments aim, and that should be clearly said, to show the inadequacy of this law through parallel data, and not through phrases, as the government does. So, even in our amendments, we will not use the wise state statements made by Czech President Klaus, who publicly, several months ago, opposed the regionalisation forced by Brussels. The minister, as an intellectual, certainly knows about this statement and even these amendments, we are starting from a realistic assumption that you are not, not you personally, but the government, able to further tax the company "Delta", and that would be a real step to help undeveloped regions, but we will try to appeal to the authorities to respect experiences from neighbouring countries, e.g. Croatia, where the European Commission's representation of the data is widely known, has awarded 227 consulting services contracts worth 85m euros. More than 97% of that amount was obtained by consortiums, businesses and individuals from the EU. So that's the essence of the help that Brussels offers us, and the rest are phrases, one neotytoistic utopia, and the dizziness of the people, unfortunately, I have to say it so clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22564	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. You have your word, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22565	I have submitted an amendment relating to the affairs of the regional council, in which I particularly refer to point 3), in which it is said to - give an opinion on the programme of financing the development of the region, for which it was founded, financed from the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I will remind all Serbian lawmakers and citizens that, since the democratic changes in 2000, Serbia has conditionally relied on all 'four legs' of European finance. I will not now analyse whether this has been misused for various purposes, pre-election campaigns or party promotions, but I would like to mention that all these funds have been used by the European Investment Bank, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The SE Development Bank also participated in the recovery of catastrophic floods in Banat, but the country has also participated in numerous EU projects to support the process of stabilising and joining the Western Balkans. Why did I say all this? Fearing abuse, more specifically, EU dependence, especially when we have in mind the fact that everything should be given an opinion on it by a regional council, which can be assumed from which composition it will be drawn up, I fear that we will be in a situation where we will be fairly valued by the EU, as we are now being blackmailed by one part of Serbia, i.e. AP KiM, and that opinions on regional funding programmes can be used for political purposes, not for the real development of the individual region. That's why I submitted this amendment, in which I asked for article 33 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22566	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22567	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 33(4) – the tasks in the jurisdiction of the Regional Development Council, where point 4 says – gives opinions and suggestions to other development documents at regional level. The proposal is to delete, because it's a trail of all other deletes, of all that's being expressed as an official SRS position. It is interesting here to point out certain data that I received from the Deputy Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, to the question – how many total donations came from 2001 to 2008, among other things, and for regional development. Unfortunately, I did not receive an analytical review of the total donations of international aid received by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of regional development, but I received one dreary and synthetic review of all donations and international aid achieved by our country during that period. This is the total amount of 4.368.000,000 for general purposes, and in my question – how much total international assistance was received for social programmes, I was given the information that the total realisation of international development aid meant to address different issues in the social sector, between 2001 and 2007, is 358.18m euros. Let's end up here on...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22568	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22569	Mrs Kalanovic, you are obviously following the quick walk of the current chairman's parliament, so that we can run through these amendments as soon as possible. I'm not going to argue whether you're listening or not to the MPs, but it's really amazing that you're hearing so many complaints about this law and that you have nothing to say, that you don't want to convince the MPs that maybe you, as a government, are right, or that, eventually, you're saying that one of the MPs is right. Article 33 regulated what regional development councils are doing. Point 3 is said to give an opinion on a programme to fund the development of the region, for which it was founded, which is financed from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are the funds you manage. Minister Dinkic, when he discussed the law in principle, said the council sets building priorities instead of the ministry. He was not precise, which the ministry, whether the ministry run by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic or the ministry on which you are headed, in any case, what he said is not in line with what is provided for in Article 33. However it is, it remains unclear – what will the ministries do if you, in every law, transfer part of your jurisdiction to some working bodies? If you did what is expected of you, then all this could be done by some working bodies, but within the Ministry, not by some whole new people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22570	Thank you. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22571	Dear fellow Members of the People, you are witnessing these days that almost the whole of Europe has shaken because Serbia has asked Russia for a billion euros in credit, believing that in this way we will become politically and economically dependent on Russia, and with that attitude, give us an answer to the question – are we, because we owe 30 billion to the West, the EU, the IMF, the World Bank, and the political and economic dependence on them? Of course we are. That's why they impose a law like this on us. You see, in order to compete now, some new region, local self-government within the region, so over all of these bodies you've designed for these access funds, first of all, you have to have a project. The project must be done according to their standards, which means that those who are building the project must also be trained to build the project. I'll remind you, since I've been remembering for a little while, I probably have enough years for it, that even in Tito's time, after we got some help, a grant loan or a loan from the West, or anyone else, Slovenia came with finished projects and took that money and dragged it into its republic. It's going to happen, you know, and here. So those who are close to the authorities, who know which projects are going through, how they are done and who are already educated, who you've already trained to do so, will be easier to get funds from those who don't know it, which means there's no even development, because we don't have evenly developed... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Nor sent personnel for all of this. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22572	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22573	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 34, which, like the members of 35th and 36th, refers to a regional development agency. However, these members also mention the phrase of funding from the so-called so-called “. ” European, essentially, Brussels funds. I believe that in this context, the government and the economic part of the government should particularly accept reality, and it shows us that money goes from Eastern Europe to Brussels, not vice versa, as we are constantly convinced by controlled media and pro-brisl politicians in this country. In this context, it is also known that on the EU market our products, freely said, have no chance. I believe that Mrs Kalanovic, but also Mr Dinkic, sees this reality because Mr Dinkic told "News" that Serbian citizens are essentially funding large banks and businesses in Western Europe through the huge interest that are present in our country. A step further should be taken to show state and political wisdom and seriousness and adapt the entire economic and state policy of data that says that no real assistance, and to a large extent, will come from Western Europe. This can also show us the experience of neighbouring Croatia, which has had major problems with the European Commission, because from December 2007 to July 2008 Croatia has been suspended certification of the 'Far' agreement, worth 80m euros, and by fivem euros the amount of the IPA programme for 2008, reportedly due to weaknesses in the realization of the decentralised system of management of this aid. So it's more than clear why this law should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22574	On Article 34, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22575	Dear Chairman, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as part of the presentation on this amendment, I would like to remind once again what the DSS' position is when it comes to the concept of a balanced regional development here. So we are deeply opposed to the way regions are defined. They're completely determined. They are, in fact, defined with the intention of entering Serbia's political regionalisation process, and the essence of this concept of the region, as defined in the law itself, will not contribute in any way to even regional development. We are deeply convinced that statistical regions had to be defined by consulting local self-governments and their development needs in order to naturally define statistical regions, best compared to nomenclature 3. In that sense, the law is too expensive, huge and certainly cannot realise those objectives defined here, although the existence of the National Agency is, in a way, the legal traceability of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and Parts of the Ministry of Economy. Only the assembling and expensiveness of this concept best illustrates the formation of regional development agencies for each statistical region. In our opinion, it's absolutely unnecessary. Jobs can be defined at other levels, and one serious development policy is being conducted. The question that arises during this discussion, which we did not get an answer to, is how much will it cost to apply for a series of funds received from European funds, especially taking into account the fact that a large number of these projects must be co-financed, and a large number of local self-governments are in major problems and most of the co-financing has been done through NIP funds? I'm afraid we don't have a chance to pull...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22576	Thank you. On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22577	I have submitted an amendment to Article 34 in which I ask that an item be deleted – only one regional agency can be established for each region. We have an illogicality here. The ruling coalition mentioned that administrative regionalisation would mean the formation of new regions, in fact, provinces, which will not be defined according to the limits of the statistical division provided for by this law. Then the question arises how justified are the stories of those who speak, and I would say completely unwarranted, except in some media-propaganda sense, that this law is, in fact, a movement towards that real administrative-political regionalization? A regionalised Serbia would not require such an apparatus as a regional development agency, as announced in the law itself. There would be no need for agencies either, because a simple example is that Vojvodina did not have agencies, especially developmental agencies, so she was taking funds from pre-accession funds, and now we have had the opportunity to hear that even the limits established by this law in the cross-areas will not be relevant to these new territorial entities, i.e. The provinces. I'm asking the question of both ministers and the legislator, and in general to the Government, what is the regional character of the proposed law, if we're going to form agencies based on statistical divisions? Another example of the statistics you're referring to. Just take the National Employment Service, which provided information that there are no more users in the National Service compared to last year, and if you look realistically, in practice, you will see that the number of unemployed is even higher. So the statistics you're referring to is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22578	Thank you. On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22579	I have submitted an amendment to Article 34(3), and Article 3 provides for the establishment and operation of a regional agency to be governed by public agencies. The proposal is to delete this, according to all our efforts, I mean the SRS, related to the bill. To return to the parliamentary issue and the response I received from the government, which concerns the total donations that the Republic of Serbia received, among other things, for regional development. It would be interesting if Mrs Kalanovic could come out with certain data, or someone from the Ministry's professional service, who would point out to what purposes these funds were invested, to see how much funds were recovered, because we know that the sum of these funds is eventually returned, to see how much has been invested in new employment, in which actions within the region have been allocated these funds. There would certainly be certain suspicious things and indicators, which is why we don't have it; all I've got is a synthetic review of the data. The funds are not small, 4.368.000,000 euros are huge funds. If we compare what we got from privatisation, something below three billion, it's clear how much international aid is, if this data is accurate and valid. It would be interesting, I say, to get that information from the government and the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22580	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS parliamentary group in this amendment envisioned that article 35 of the bill be deleted. What's this about? This Article 35 refers to tasks that are intended to be done by regional agencies. So, these are jobs that mix up a little bit of jurisdiction, don't belong to a regional agency, they're a little bit of a domain of one, the other, third institution, so we think it's a really big, non-functional, very expensive structure that someone has to pay for. Given the state of the budget and the state of the citizens exhausted by this economic crisis and inaction, i.e. by the foolish act of such a government, which apparently does not have the capacity to remove the country from the economic crisis and help workers and citizens of Serbia, it turns out that the citizens of Serbia will also carry out this massive structure through their backs. Please, it's about the National Regional Council, so we have a pandan - the National Agency, then, regional councils, then regional agencies and, ultimately, district associations, with district agencies. It may seem to someone like it's a democratic process, which these G17s like to say they're up for it, about decentralisation, but it's not decentralisation, I'll talk about it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22582	Thank you. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 35. It's the regional development agency again. The amendment concerns paragraph 1 and, in essence, the preparation and implementation of development documents. When we link this to the 6th point of the same article, which reportedly regulates projection aid, aid financed from the Brussels funds, it comes back to the very essence of the law that we point to in our amendments, which is this famous, glorified IPA fund, which is supposed to be the solution to all our problems. It is again a neotytoistic ideology, or phrase that is known in our reality – East and West, which essentially means neglecting its own production, borrowing the country and financial dependence on the West. In this regard, I would remind the minister that, according to the provisions of the EU Framework Agreement, which were signed in November by the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and European Commission Director for the Western Balkans, Mr Mirel, Serbia was to receive a total of 190m euros from the EU in 2008. According to data from that time, however, and these are the minimum estimates of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Serbia's external trade deficit will be more than $10 billion in 2008. That's incomparable. The deficit is estimated to be even higher, experts from your Chamber of Commerce say if Serbia continues its path to the EU, and it will be an additional 1.5 billion dollars. If you compare this figure of 190m euros and this figure that can be compared to about eightm euros, which, precisely because of this tax-based economic policy, go to Western Europe, you understand that this is incomparable and that this law is more than harmful and that you need to adopt amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22584	Thank you. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to a regional agency, which performs certain tasks, in particular point 5, which says that it prepares and implements expert training programmes for the needs of the development of companies and entrepreneurship, infrastructure development and the development of institutions and organisations in its region. I have proposed an amendment to delete this, because I have submitted the same amendment to Article 29, also point 5, which sets out the competences of the National Agency, which are absolutely the same. For the sake of the citizens, I will read this: "Preparation and implementation of training programmes of instructors and consultants for the needs of the development of companies and entrepreneurship". If we take into account the fact that the same powers are both regional agencies and the National Agency and have the same obligations, it is absolutely unnecessary, firstly, to form a regional agency, and secondly, to have double the same responsibilities as the National Agency has. There is a overlap between national agencies and there may be political conflicts, because the regional agency may be composed of one political party, and the National Agency may be composed of another political party, so co-ordination and duplication of competence between one and the other can be coincided with to the extent that abuses are imminent. What does that mean in translation? We have an x example of how a number of ministries operate towards local self-government, that it is in the government and the opposition, how they use NIP funds and how they use opportunities, benefits and privileges of the ministry. You can see it both in practice and in the way of the lives of the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22586	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22587	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is dissatisfied with the 35th and this solution, that is, with the regional agency. I personally submitted an amendment relating to point 3, a point dealing with the area of accreditation. I find it extremely inappropriate for a regional agency to issue an accreditation for district associations and that, as in the next member, it seems 40, already prescribed, that the National Agency, which issues accreditation for the first two years, should continue to do the job later. It's prescribed, as I said, that district regional agencies do it for a five-year period. We have the agenda and the law on associations, which is defined by the three citizens as an association that is registered with the Agency for Economic Resources. The goal, I would say, is the Government and the Intent, in which this law and this solution do not fit, that registration is centralized, and the area of accreditation, but it seems to me that even this solution, that the Agency for Economic Registers is controlling whether the district agencies are capable of doing their jobs, is better than is proposed in this text of the law. I am convinced that this will mean unprofitable employment, so increasing the administration, that the quality of these district associations will be important in reducing these legal solutions. There was no need to go to such a wide area of regional agency affairs, so I think we should seriously consider this amendment. As for this second part of the amendment, I don't have the right response from the government, so that part about publishing activity. It is obvious that the government itself is aware that with the powers it has given to the regional agency, it has exaggerated and has not had the right answer. I thank you for your understanding. Once again, I think the minister should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22588	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have invested, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 35(1) point 4. For the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I will read it. Point 4 says the regional agency is doing the following tasks, and says "coordinates the work of district associations in its region". The position of the SRS is that through this number of agencies we leave the possibility through this legal solution that we also have certain associations within the area, which will be refinanced by someone and then, within the region, we have more district associations that will later become independent institutions, legal entities, in which certain funds will be allocated. Then we have a buildup and we have problems in the security system for this size of public spending. To return to certain data that I received from the Government, which concerns international assistance that had to be directed, among other things, into economic and development policy and planning and on social issues, work, employment, etc. The question arises, within the framework of these funds that have come to Serbia, how much is really isolated in work, employment, regional development and what are the effects? Does anyone in this country know that? Do we have any specific analysis? Are we monitoring this situation? Do we have any prepared programs for all of this? We don't. Styria's funds came, they were symmetryd, and they ended up based on political unitarism.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22590	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22591	Mr. Novakovic, you are, and we all know that you are a correct man, and you are probably quite uncomfortable that you have been given the task of not letting a single MP finish a sentence over two minutes, even if it lasts for a second, as a matter of fact, in the case of Mr. Buha, but, well, you are getting better, you are getting closer to Mrs. Comic and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović. The member of the 33rd discusses the regional development council and says what the regional council is doing, and Article 35 says what the regional agency is doing. In Article 33, paragraph 5, where I also proposed erasing through the recent amendment, you say that the regional development council forms working groups at the regional level for specific issues of importance for the region. So it's amazing how many people will be hired here on state spending, which will be paid out of the budget and out of the pockets of Serbian citizens. It would've been nice if you'd provided this many jobs somewhere in the production. Believe me, the citizens of Serbia would be grateful to you, and we would give you credit for such an effort, that is, for such success. You here just unnecessarily pile up the administration, and then in this article 35th point 5 again, you say that the regional agency prepares and implements professional training programmes for the needs of the development of companies, infrastructure development, and the development of institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22592	Time. I didn't turn anyone off, I just walk into a sentence, trying to let the thought end anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22593	Like you just let me do? Thank you. I have two words left to say to the end. Thank you, Nikola.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22594	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22595	Mr. Novakovic, I am fully aware of the fact that I cannot convince you of the harmfulness and execution of such a project, which can be identified with the final stage in the destruction of the Republic of Serbia. You know, free cheese is found in a mousefish and it's very dangerous when "every lice goes to bees." It's this particular member, point six, that's what he's predicting. You can imagine Bosko Ristic or, say, Veroljub Stevanović, that in the headquarters of his future statistical regions, they start with an operation to borrow and take loans abroad for development projects, which are reportedly feasibility studies, it's not a kick-off, you know, and there's no even development, but fostering and approaching, allegedly, some funds, which are just waiting for us. Just to remind you, we have been waiting nine years for those 6.5 billion you mentioned on October 5th 2000 that they are across the border; they are just waiting for you to remove Milosevic, and they enter immediately. By the way, they're all your partners. Your partners took Kim from us. This is the final phase of the destruction of the Republic of Serbia, designed in the most corrupt way. How? The moment the debate started, or a series of SRS rallys and stands in Vojvodina, where we criticised the Statute of the APVojvodina, you quickly realized to say – regional development, so you organised a meeting in Nis, then in Kragujevac, then in Uzic. Like, it'll be better for everyone when we break up. I remember one who said that Serbia should rise from the ashes, so since there is no ash, let's burn it all down, and first this building was killed. It is impossible, Mr. Novakovic, to fix this law which, in essence, represents the destruction of the Republic. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22596	Thank you. Just to pick up where Mr. Krasic stopped, so you can follow the SRS argument. The regional agency should, according to your proposal, carry out the tasks of international and interregional co-operation under its jurisdiction. I just want to remind you, you should know, that, let's say, a local self-government, if it wants to establish some contacts and make those contacts and relationships of any kind, even culturally, only with some local community abroad, it has to get the consent of the Foreign Ministry. That's how you do it in serious countries. We don't commit these regional agencies to anything here, or any other law obliges them to do so. They can get in touch with any kind and for any kind of business, with anyone, and that state, that the government doesn't know. I'm asking you, is that normal? Can mice really run the wheel, like you imagined? Mr Krasic set an excellent example, such regional pastures will be many. It can indeed lead to the destruction of the state, and it cannot be strengthened or established by any better co-operation. Now, for example, we have an example of privatization of the Fair. The state generously says -- here, 50% of the money will remain for the city of Belgrade because it goes to the fair another 11 hectares of the country. I'm asking you, who's lost the money?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22597	I thank you, but time...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22598	I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22599	It's a deal. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35 to delete in point 9. Article 35 refers to regional agencies and this agency, within its region, will be, I would say, alpha and omega...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22601	I'm sorry, Mr. Ilic, I'd just like to ask Mr. Krasic to take his jacket to the dressing room, which is located on the entrance to the left; it looks very rude on TV. I thank you in advance. Here you go, Mr. Ilich. I'll pay you back all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22602	Article 35 refers to regional agencies, and this agency, within its region, will be an alpha and an omega of 'Future Development', but provided there is money and what state there is in the state, they will hardly be. In the amendment, I proposed to delete point 9, which reads – the regional agency organises and performs publishing work. I would like to ask Mrs. Minister, what kind of publishing activity is organised and carried out by a regional agency, and in what, whose interest is it, in which plans and for whose purposes? This really gives the impression that we're building some parallel systems, independent of each other. Give us an example of how you imagine the regional agency is doing publishing, does this mean that the regional agency will have its own budget, or will it be able to do publishing work? It is now known what is the goal of setting up these regions, Minister Mladjan Dinkic will put his people at the helm of these agencies, in order to control the direction and implementation of projects, although he could do all this from the minister's position, instead of creating what he could not function. I believe that everything will be hidden behind the EU directive, which has really served him in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22603	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. By the Rules of Procedure or what? - You're picking up from the Rules of Procedure? The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22604	Mr. Chairman, I feel obliged to warn you that Article 104 applies to both you and us. You felt that by removing the jacket from Mr Krasic's jacket, staying in his shirt and tie, he violated the dignity of the National Assembly when you warned him. You didn't pay attention to the much worse cases that were going on in Parliament. Maybe it's a violation of dignity when you're drinking coffee, and we stay thirsty and hungry here, or when someone next to you reads the paper, and we have to work up to 12 or 1 o'clock at night. Those double criteria don't lead to anything. To know, the guests who enter this assembly and who want to talk to the MPs are examined – whether their fingers are seen, whether they are in open-toed sandals or not, I do not allow them to enter this house, and there are people's MPs who come in 'Japanese', as they used to be called, now has a more modern name for it, both naked and bare, in shirts, T-shirts, etc., and yet you do not comment on it. Mr. Krasic was very decently dressed. He came from an office with 40 degrees, not knowing what the temperature is like here. This is where we sweat, and the hour is cold, which would be said: Call us until we all fall. So, please, I really don't think you've been in the right place to comment on Mr. Krasic for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22605	I didn't criticise or warn Mr. Krasic about how he was dressed, but I warned his jacket, which Mr. Krasic left hanging on the microphone. Excuse me, please, it's very ugly on the screen. I don't see any other MP hanging a microphone jacket. You haven't noticed, probably, and I'm not sure Mr. Krasic needs any defense from me or my suggestion. I know he realized it right away and now the jacket is where it's supposed to be, and that's fine. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're just misusing that Rules of Procedure. In this particular case, you're gonna get me into an awkward situation to do something else. Now I give my word to Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22606	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will also use this time for the amendment and time intended for the New Serbia Parliamentary Group. I expected this very serious law to be considered in Parliament at an extremely high level, by the Minister for Equal Regional Development, who has been doing this job for three years, to be attended by MPs from the ruling coalition, and in particular by legislators, which is not seen in this Chamber. I expected the amendments to be accepted, because our goal is to fix an extremely bad law through the amendments, which will cause many problems to Serbia. However, I can see that there is no understanding. One machinery from the ruling coalition is only ready to come on the day of the vote, to defend what someone imagined, what someone had ordered, which they brought to do and do. That's how it's gonna go. And as Serbia will pass after that, we will see, as we have seen in agriculture, when in one afternoon, in a united debate, we adopted 15 laws, which is a world record. Some ministers smile, here, Mrs. Kalanovic smiles, she might find it fun to sit here. I don't know on what basis Mrs. Kalanovic defends this law, and what does she have to do with equal regional development, this NIP ministry, which is nowhere in the world, only with us, which has never laid down any accounts for anyone? I remember when the NIP was made, that we were doing it, by the way, one group of ministers; that was when it worked best, because there was one body and five-six ministers. We changed a month, and that's when it really worked, because they were all from different political options. Like this, simply, in this country, you can do whatever you want and whatever you want. But I can see that the ruling coalition is not interested in this law. Look, it's all empty, it's misery and misfortune. The opposition struggles to make something happen, to convince you to accept it, but you know how the people say it - to wink blind and whisper deaf, it has no effect. So I see it's going to be without anything. These days, through the laws we have adopted, through two laws that have passed through Parliament lightly, we will receive new 5,000 people in Serbia, to administrative affairs. We're talking about reducing the administration, but let's just take and gather the communal police and everything we're about to adopt and we'll have about 5,000 new jobs. How's that going to pay, it's a question? All we know is that there's no budget filling. Governor Jelasic announced these days that there will be another rebalancing, that there will be no budgeting. The other day we were listening, there was a minister of agriculture and he was talking about well-being in agriculture, and these days, I've been collecting from New Year's Eve to today, oil has raised 35 dinars. A little bit by little, a little excise, a little world price, all a little bit, 35 dinars a liter of expensive oil. What's a peasant going to do, and we were listening to the Minister of Trade when he said that agricultural products were cheap to survive? How? This year's government, from New Year's Eve to now, has entrusted the state with four billion new loans. Four billion. Of which, three billion of the IMF, without ratification in Parliament and without any obligation to account for how all this will be spent. It's a company. It's a stabilization of the economy. What businesses? Who's going to get it, how are the conditions, how are they going to get it, who's going to compete, etc.? We don't have any of that. To owe a country with three billion euros, without any obligation to make an account, it was never anywhere, and we want to hide one fact behind it, that we got those three billion without ratification in Parliament, even though no global and European institution ever wanted to give money without ratification in parliament, because we had not stopped Kosovo from entering the IMF. Here, these days, Thaci boasts they're already there, that they're on the threshold, that they're coming in and that it's a done deal, and we, like Ahtisaari's plan, have some extra points, we're doing great, and we're just talking about a white Schengen list, we're not talking about people not going to, gentlemen from the government. You can see that you lost in the election, wherever you showed up. You came out with promises, lied to the people, cheated. You said 200 thousand new jobs. Everything you listed, I was in doubt whether to round you up, everything was a lie, nothing came true. All lies to lies. Here, now that you've come to a dead end, when you don't know where you're going and what, when you don't have a solution, you're going to suggest a new budget rebalance. There's no one left to take from. Anything that could have happened, you took it, and now it's not naked, there's nowhere to go. Now you're thinking about what to do, so, like, God damn it, you're doing something, you're passing a law on statistical regions. You want to explain to Serbia that it will be much better to live when you build agencies in statistical regions, when you build a national agency, then a regional agency, then a district agency, and when you house your party friends, who are nervous, who live badly and who want to leave in a row. Even in certain places, even the box guards won't vote for you. They don't want people, they see it's wrong and they see it doesn't lead to anything. Here, what did you do there on the Leader, in Zemun, in Koserić? You struggled, you worked, you upgraded, you shared loans, but the people won't give you away. It's not worth it. The problem is, you don't have people coming out to make promises. Today, the president of the state has promised, I hear on the news, that the Statute of Vojvodina will be passed very quickly, at the celebration of the Hungarian party. How are you going to adopt him? And now Kragujevac. There's a gentleman who gets a lot of criticism this day, I can see that some of them are defending him, etc., and he came in with you and he got into a lot of trouble in Kragujevac. He cheated everything, didn't know what to do with himself, now the people came to ask – what happened, where those promises were, "Fiat", "Folkswagen", "Mercedes", "Boing", credit lines, six billion euros from the European Union? There's nothing. How much "punta" did you produce? How much is a "full" of this country? Mrs. Kalanovic, you're laughing, but the last one laughing is the cutest one laughing. Believe me. You'll feel it on your skin very soon. When someone asks you tomorrow, and they'll ask you about some very important things you've decided on, then I'll see if you'll laugh. So, you've now made one maneuver, that in this hopelessness, in these problems that have arisen now, you're distracting Serbia and you're saying -- here, now you're all going to be statistical regions and you're all going to live better, you're going to have offices, and you're going to compete with the district, and they're transferring to regional and regional agencies, and the national agency supplies to the government. It's going to be such a combination that it's hard for us with you and what projects are going to pass. That's not gonna happen. You're announcing new loans. Well, imagine the National Investment Programme he sold, and I'll ask you, Mrs Kalanovic, when you're not in that position, to lay down an account where the money from the NIP from the Mobtel sale, a billion and 600 million from the Slave Houses of Belgrade, 360m euros from the third operator, which you sold to your friend Šlafu, a foreign friend, from these large casinos, 300m euros from only the third operator. You gather that up a little bit and see where the money is, and it's said in the government once, I was present, that it's going to make Corridor 10. How many of these have you made miles of Corridor 10 and where is that money? That's two billion 260m euros. Not to ask about those bookies, casinos and all that stuff that went off like furda to Mr. Schlaff with all that. I've known Mr. Schlaff for years, and I know how the negotiations were done, so I'm asking you. When someone asks you about "Lutria" tomorrow to explain to the people what was going on with "Lutria," how it was shared, how it was with that director, who then took an adventure, and went to the airport, so he made a gift-mar there. It's a bed and it's covered up, etc. When someone asks you... Your idea leader said the state and the city of Belgrade were damaged only on the port of Belgrade and on the mouth of 2.5 billion euros. How can two projects damage the state and the city of Belgrade with 2.5 billion euros? Is that why anyone answered? Is that possible? Therefore, a number of questions will be asked, very serious questions, and the promise of employment in the administration has nothing to do with it. You've taken over the country now, I'm telling you the truth. This is one big disappointment, one total ride. People who are your party's supporters are living up to their citizens. That's what I'm telling you. Do you know that in Jerkovic Brothers, a man holds pigs, lives on 100,000 people? Do you know that in Chačka, a town with 16,000 people, a man holds a farm out of spite and no one can touch him? It's all taken care of. He's got your officials stopping by. He beats up the inspector who comes, does whatever he wants, and no one can do anything to him. They simply live above the people, and now through your agencies, what will happen when these agencies get unhappy?- I'm sorry. We've done green Boston with our projects. Your coolant, and her citizens' associations, it's all empty today. There's a lot of money gone. What do the raspberries say when you've cleared the bag and made the coolers? Do they live better? Do they have better prices? They don't. Are the problems gone? No, they're not. How much is a street built in Loznica under your patronage? How much is a square of asphalt in Belgrade today? The price of asphalting in the city of Belgrade is almost three times higher than in Serbia. That's gotta be explained. Whose business are these? Whose machines are they now introduced to work? Who are the politicians who have machines and are ordered to do their machines, to get everything in their subscription, and the rest of them can't be paid. So there's a lot of trouble. What you're doing with these statistical regions of yours, it's the first phase of breaking Serbia. You mutilated the woods clean. You've brought half of the forest together Belgrade and you've taken all the resources, coal mines, thermal power plants. It's the Woodland. You've attached it to Belgrade and you're slowly taking and living here very nicely. The rest you attached to western Serbia, to feed it where it should be fed, one part you attached to your center, connected incompatiblely. Imagine if you'd put a piece of the forest together with Sandzak? He told me Bajro the other day - I'm from Sandzak. You're no longer from Sandzak, you're from the Centre, and your seat is in Kragujevac. Now he needs to know, and when he gets this vote, many of you will understand, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Where are you going when my guy from Chačka goes to Shabac, so he has to come to Belgrade, then take the highway to Shabac? You've connected this amazingly, where people don't have any physical contact in the business, in communication, in the years, you've connected it all together and done it the way you did it. It's a budget charge, you know what it's like for you. The perspective is nothing. We'll see what you do. We will see what you will do with the Statute of Vojvodina, because what you do in Vojvodina will also be requested by some of your statistical centres in Serbia, because you have promised some. Some have already held press conferences. I will see that Bosko Ristic, when I listened to him as he explained in Nis that they would also get what Vojvodina would do, will explain to Nisljam and his region from which he came from what he did with these statistical regions. The state is getting more and more expensive. The money's getting smaller and smaller. Filling the budget is a big problem. Now you've begun to cut off the municipalities because you promised some to give. You've reduced the transfer funds. Is it possible to transfer funds to some municipalities, take Koserić, who has 60 million, returns from two billion and now you have reduced him by 35%? How is he going to live with so little money a scattered town of several hundred kilometers? For three years there has been a Ministry of Equal Regional Development, why haven't you done something through the Ministry? You couldn't. We'll see what happens. By New Year's Eve, you'll still be in charge. You promised another loan of about 500m euros. You're competing. Who's gonna pay? We'll see. Who's coming back? We don't know. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, think carefully. You are MPs coming from certain regions, from certain statistical regions, as they call you. I don't know how you're going to explain that statistic on the ground. How will you explain these district regions? How are you going to explain these five-six thousand new jobs, uniforms, cars, cars, bosses, secretaries, directors, etc., rooms, leases, technical equipment? How are you going to explain all this? God help you. It only comforts me that I'm convinced you won't last long. The signals are good and the shorter you last, the better for Serbia. All the nonsense you're bringing under the EU firm, I don't know how we're going to put it in order afterwards, it's going to be very difficult. Don't talk, which EU country has this statistical regionalisation? Don't give me the Euroregion. I listened to one of your party heads when he spoke in Strasbourg about regional centres and when he said Vojvodina was already in the European region. When are you gonna rip her out of that region, I don't even know what her intentions are when she enters that region?- I'm sorry. Where are you going to put Tutin, where are you going to put the bullet? Who will take her to European regions? Who's going to take the Barrier, Black Weed? What are you going to do with them? Do you know there are some municipalities there, too? Lebanese? What do you know about Lebanese, Major, how to live there, Bosilegrad and other cities? You don't know, and that's why you laugh so well and smile. Today I'm telling you that 18 villages, seven of them, have no more residents in the municipality of Kursumli, no more students. All schools are empty and empty and no one's here. Ask around about it a little bit. Thank you very much and only you adopt these European laws, put them in priority and cover them with a variety of stories. This is not what Europe is looking for. You'll get a white Schengen visa. Who will be able to pay for the plane ticket, how many citizens of Serbia, and what will they do when they go to Europe? It's gonna be a day or two and they're gonna come back, and then when they see how they live there, they're not gonna vote for you, and they're gonna see how much you've fooled them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22607	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22608	Thank you, MP Ilic, for this speech. The way you said it today, that's what you've always done. You started a million things confusingly, without order, without direction, things that you start, don't end, things that are half-truths, which are manipulation, which are often false. I am very glad that you have long said that all this is very clearly seen here in Parliament. As someone who's thinking technically, who's done the technique, I've tried to systematicize a few things you've started, so I'd be happy to answer. We talked about promises. You said these were some kind of promise, too. I ask an open question – is there anyone who makes more promises and more empty promises than you? Your community presidents say -- they don't vote for us, in the opinion of our president, those who know what the truth is, but those who believe our promises. Of course you can't understand what it means to give a word to someone because you don't hold it. It is clear that you react to your promises in this way. In what status do I defend this law? In 2007, in August, you were in that government, and you should know that there was no Ministry of Regional Development, but the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and the Regional Development Sector, as it is today, established a working group for the development of regional development laws, and I was the head of this working group. I was talking here about all the partners who, along with the working group, worked the law, and the presidents of the municipalities, and the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, Vladin and the NGO, and representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, whose head you were at then. So, the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure also participated in the work of this law, because infrastructure is one of the major segments in regional development. For the first time today, you are aware of the fact that the representatives of your ministry, with you as a resolute minister, have participated in the drafting of this law. In principle, I'm not surprised. If you had read the law, it would have been clear to you how important the NIP programme is, through measures and incentives in implementing regional development, and in particular even regional development. And that the NIP doesn't exist anywhere in the world, and there is, should invent it, to make order in all the projects that have started in the previous period, and you have preceded it. A 300m-euro debt to the tolls was not made by me from the NIP, but by you, as the minister of infrastructure, and by those huge annexes and those huge prices. When it comes to directors of public enterprises, the Ministry of Infrastructure had some who were accused of all the things they did as directors of public enterprises. As far as the G17 plus goes, we've never had a minister of police or any ministry of force, nor do we think anyone should be hiding from the party because of the abuse and what they're doing within the jurisdiction of the state. I'm not personally afraid at all that my work is being questioned every day, and my honesty, even by the police authorities. But those who fear, answer. Personal responsibility is necessary and personal responsibility is recognised today and in some members of your party who were directors of public enterprises. As for Corridor 10, Tantalus' troubles today have those who inherited you, and my ministry, and some other ministries, because we can't, as they say in central Serbia, fix the job, because we don't have finished expropriation plans, or projects, so the problem is that Corridor 10 continues to work. I can ask the question today -- how many miles of roads did they cost, how did they make the roads? Which means the Regional Development Act will best show if we look at what is predicted for the next period. A common policy of the region is foreseen, the adoption of common decisions on priorities where roads will be made, if we talk about the roads. It foresees what these roads will bring with their construction, predicting which direction the region will develop, through employment, through investment. We're not going to make roads to the sister-in-law's house, we're going to make roads to hire young people, develop cities and villages. As for the underdeveloped, Mr. Ilic, in Majornik and Leban, I have been countless times, one and the other municipalities know that, and most recently I was in Majornik and in Leban within the framework of the support programme for infrastructure development in the 40 most vulnerable municipalities. I wouldn't be so easily taxiged as to say that as a former minister of infrastructure, I'm talking about care for undeveloped municipalities, and I know exactly what roads are like, and what bridges are like, and what travel infrastructure is in the 40 most vulnerable municipalities. This year, the government of the Republic of Serbia will invest two billion dinars as a drop, as a necessity for them to live at least a little more normal, to come out of the Middle Ages, and that is one of the incentives of even regional development. Of course I know where the underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia are because I've visited them all, because I've sat down with them at the table and told them where the priorities are, what we should invest money in from the budgets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This can also be confirmed by the presidents of the municipalities of your parties who were partners in the business, and the one in Vranj, and the one in Doljevac; fortunately, they think a little differently than you say today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22609	Thank you. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22610	I'm extremely disappointed, Madam Minister, to comment that I was speaking out of bounds, thrown, while you laughed and provoked, you kept smiling, and then you started yelling at me, yelling at me, making noises, making a big threat. Those threats of yours, Mrs. Kalanovic, I'm not afraid, nor are your parties, but talk to one argument, not lies. You started talking the same way as Dinkic. That's why you came here. Believe me, it can't piss me off, but it irritates, it pisses the citizens of Serbia, your lies have come to this point. Let me explain to you how long the passengers got. Your great minister, genius, who is the best finance minister in the world, declared the best in the world, when we made JP's, had to be the debt of the budget user – Directorates, to be disbursed; it was the reconstruction of the country, the making of bridges, etc. What did he do? Having failed to provide funds, he said within three months in the Serbian Parliament he would provide funds to cover the debt and JP Putevi was registered as a public enterprise of Serbia, with a 10.2 billion debt, which has not been paid to date. Your great genius minister came to the government and said the IMF said that we had reinvested five billion and that all ministries must be reduced in proportion to meet the IMF contract. He had a second proposal and said – that both health and education and culture would not be cut, it is a big job, to reduce the five billion tolls that have done the work, handed over and ended the situation, to put into the next budget five billion and pay for it in the next calendar year. This was done and has not been paid to date, because the new finance minister, who came after them, Cvetkovic, said he could not accept the item from the budget and did not pay. It's all gone to this day. This one's been regretting for five or six years, and this one's been for four or five years. Your genius finance minister, when he led the NIP in that government, said the money was gone in the NIP and that the NIP would take one loan, when Gilas started running the NIP, and that credit had to be raised, so he asked that the tolls not be invoiced in that calendar year by six billion from NIPs, but to invoice in the next calendar year... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Ilichu, is up, you finish. )......................................................................................................... With a promise to sell Mobtel and privatize to the travel companies that money will be compensated. Of course, the government trusted the minister and said, "It's a deal." It's gone. It hasn't been paid to this day. And, Mrs. Kalanovic, your ministry last year, from the NIP, to this day, owes the passengers seven billion. (President: You've been talking for half a minute longer. You didn't pay seven billion on the bypass. I've got six minutes. (President: No, this is a replica and it's not a theme at all. This is a replica, and if you're going to talk about it, then you won't be in today's session. I'm replicating what was the problem. (President: Excuse me, please.) So don’t talk like that, be responsible. What I did, he knows Serbia, four thousand kilometers. You can't tag it with a white ribbon. Go to Zlatibor, see, maybe take a picture there. You went on a tour to take a picture, I did it, and you ended up 100-200 meters, so go to Ovčar Banja, visit the entire Ibarska highway, to Montenegro, Mrs Kalanovic, and go to Novi Sad, finished the highway, Novi Sad – Subotica, all finished, all the way to the Croatian border – all reconstructed. Have you seen what the Sitician ravine looks like, which I led, and the 18km to Niška Banja, the highway? You can't do that for the next 100 years, according to your working dynamics. Even if you followed me, you and your minister, financially, what you were under a legal obligation, then there would be even more. What you're attacking, directors, this unfortunate director got a criminal report that he accepted that his passengers were invoiced in the following year, so, like, he got an application for false documentation, and the tolls didn't have money for VAT, so it was said not to be invoiced in this year, but in the following year, so it turned out that in January and February, it was paved and worked on roads, which was incorrect, because the works had been done before. This is for the sake of the truth, for the viewers who follow us, for the MPs who follow this meeting, for the record, and you say what you want. I know you ordered, your G17 leaders, twice built a state commission, controlled. I've got an interview here by the Minister of Infrastructure, who said... (President: You're running out of time now. Thank you. That's the end. )......................................................................................................... It's all right. So, my dear lady, do a little work, roll up your sleeves... (Louds from the bench: Why are you turning off his microphone? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22611	Thank you. I'm shutting down because the time is over. It's neither time nor darkness, thank you very much. We return to the debate in particular – the law on regional development. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22612	I have submitted an amendment to Article 35 of point (10), which requires that this point be deleted. If the minister once tells us that there is no sovereignty where there is no population and that this is one of the reasons why it is necessary to support the law on regional development, that it should support the dispersal of the state to some kind of feud, there is an unequivocal and logical question – is this not also your recipe that, for example, America will preserve the uninhabited areas of Alaska, how will Russia preserve the vast and uninhabited spaces of Siberia? If so, it really needs to be protected and patented as a kind and good intellectual property. You suggest that your friends break their territories into regions like that, too, maybe they'll accept it. However, we know your government well. We know well what is the basic life and, above all, the political philosophy of this government of yours, which is its policy in leading that policy. It, in one sentence, says: that the goose is robbed with as little grief as possible, and with as much feathers as possible, in translation, find a way to tax the citizens more effectively, and that they are less rebellious. You really are the maherers in that. But know what time it is, there will be fewer feathers, and more and more nausea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22613	Thank you, too. On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club is expressing its disagreement with this proposal for a law on regional development and this also shows the way we have submitted the amendments. Aware of the fact that the essence of such a law cannot be significantly corrected by the submission of the amendment, we have seen the solution in eradicating all the members, eradicating everything that is written in this bill. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 35 has been proposed to delete the position of the 2nd member. Article 35 refers to regional development agencies, more specifically, which tasks they carry out. We of the SRS believe that the establishment of all these councils, national and regional, powerful agencies, is merely a build-up of administration and inventing jobs, in order to take care of party personnel. Now I just want to remind you of some of the events that took place a few months ago, of what was going on in Leskovac, in the city where I live. In fact, members of the ruling coalition at the republican level felt that they were God-given to be in power throughout Serbia at local level. In this thought, the most favoured were DS representatives, and immediately after them were representatives of the G17 Plus party. They did not stop talking about how Leskovac would go backwards because the government was being conducted by representatives of the SRS and did not stop talking about how two billion more dinars would be granted from the funds of the Republic of Leskovac beyond what was approved for the candidate projects from the NIP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22615	Mrs Dimitrijevic, thank you. Time's up. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 35 be added after article 35. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment in the same text was submitted, together, by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic, as well as by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word has a folk letter, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22616	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 36. The draft law reads – The Ministry is responsible for monitoring the work of the regional agency. The DSS parliamentary group felt that this member should be deleted, simply, there is no reason to exist, because according to the concept that the DSS has submitted, you have followed the presentation of our amendments, we believe that this is an extremely expensive and irrational form of spending of people's money and the settlement of some party debts, obviously, so there is no need for this member to exist at all. We don't think regional agencies should exist either. On the other hand, I started a story about centralised, or decentralisation, and I would like to say something more about it this time, when this particular member is being processed. Although this form of regionalization seems to mean that it is, in fact, a decentralisation, if we follow the thread of this law closely, we come to only one thing – it is a broken structure, a complicated structure, a massive structure, which is completely like a scarecrow, but that structure cannot bear this job, precisely because jurisdiction is intertwined, business is completely relocated, and what is most important, everything controls and controls the Ministry of Regional Development. Today we have the Ministry of Regional Development and, unfortunately, it shows no results, so it's funny that in addition to such a single ministry, which should be a superminist according to the bill, we have a very strong structure that doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22617	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22618	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 36 again refers to the work of the regional agency. Our amendment is denied, on the grounds that jurisdiction over this agency will be exercised by the Ministry. Even if, in some hypothetical case, we could show good faith and believe that this is the right argument and that the Ministry will oversee this agency, the question arises – what will happen if a shift occurs in the Ministry or the shift of power? In that sense, we believe that this amendment of ours is much better, that it gives legal certainty. Hypothetically speaking, what happens if in some future period, within this new five-octobaric euphoria that affects people in the local environment, a group that is even more dependent on the West comes into power than the current government and that is even more dependent on the owner of Delta, which, as we know, has income comparable to 40% of the Republic of Serbia's budget? I think, however, we should accept this amendment and look at what this solution offers, which we think is in line with reality, because reality shows us that Serbia should receive 770m euros in aid from the IPA Fund within 2007 to 2010. At the same time, you know that in the period until 2008, about $40 billion went just because of the external trade deficit to the countries of the EU, Western Europe and Brussels. Therefore, the IPA Fund, when compared to the external trade deficit, is more than minimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22619	To the title above Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22620	I would refer to the previous amendment, because it's about similar problems. In this context, two institutions that are so glorified in our public, the EU and the IMF, which is still less popular than the EU, can be asked. We believe in the SRS, which is why we have submitted these amendments, that in practice these two institutions act in harmony. That's what we're going to show for the following data. In 2008, Serbia had to pay 4.2 billion dollars based on the payment of the main part of the foreign debt and $100m based on interest payments. The fact is connected to the EU, no matter how hard we work through the assistance given by Brussels, about 190m euros in last year from the IPA Fund, and we come to our key argument, which is a meeting of the Serbian government's vice-presidents, held in Brussels on 19 November 2007, with the European Commissioner for Economics and Finance. As you are well aware, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the European Commissioner have agreed that the Republic of Serbia is harmonising its policy towards the EU with IMF requirements. So these are two related institutions and no phrases about so-called. pre-accession assistance, on regionalisation, cannot hide that policy as extremely economically harmful to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22621	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. On Article 37, the amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic, as well as by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22622	The esteemed chairman, respected Minister Kalanovic, respected MPs, is one of the evidence, this Article 37, to which the structure of these bodies that are to realise Serbia's development is agreed. The district associations are an additional problem. We have regional development agencies, which are a burden for citizens, because they will be financed from the budget. Let's say that the National Agency is, in a way, a sum, a legal follower of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and Parts of the Ministry. The district associations are a burden for local self-government, such a burden that local self-government will finance district associations without anyone asking for justification and interest to form district associations. The whole concept defined by this law is the concept of ignoring local self-government. You are now introducing district associations, where local self-governments can participate in their formation, that they be business societies or associations, and yes, this is seen through Article 41, where accreditation is to be done, local self-government has not been able to say whether they have or do not have an interest in forming a district association. In addition, the area of association monitors the level of organisation to define regional development, which are areas, which we find absolutely unnecessary. It is necessary to start from a completely different concept that refers to statistical regions, meaning, respecting the interests of local self-government, not immediately define regions, and that the interests of local self-government and the way they are organised are ignored. It was enough to see at the level of the Duke. Pancevo also has municipalities in the Southbanat region, such as Alibunar or Plandište, with its interests. Why would they be subject to the interests of the region, as defined here, Vojvodina? Let them define for themselves what their interests are. So are Zrenjanin and some other municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22623	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22624	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and the SRS parliamentary group have, by amendment, provided for the removal of Article 37 of this proposal of the Regional Development Act, a member who has defined the district association as a company or association established to carry out regional development operations for an area established in accordance with the statistical territorial units nomenclature at level 3, which is accredited, in accordance with this law. I read on purpose what Article 37 reads, because in 90 per cent and more of the proposals on the rejection of these amendments, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is a team member and a team, and then it is prescribed as being a member of the proposed law. We really consider this an incoherent explanation, especially when it comes to the fact that during today's assembly debate we have already talked about, which is also the existence of the National Council for Regional Development, and the National Regional Development Agency, and the national networks of agencies, the Association for Regional Development, and all of them say that they exist in order to implement regional development policy. The regional development public agency, which is also at regional level, serves to implement regional development policy and has one co-boarded regional development agency on local self-government and regional units, aimed at implementing regional development policy. So there are three agencies above the regional, one of which has the authority to implement, the other -- to implement and plan, the third -- to re-implement regional development policy. All in all, it is clear that the intention to continue to decide, plan, and even implement a regional development programme, in the event of the adoption of such a bill, dictates from the centre, which completely violates the principle of subsidiarity, and we, in the SRS Parliamentary Group, are trying to point out this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22625	Thank you. On Article 38, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22626	The respected chairman, respected Minister Kalanovic, defines ways to finance the district association. One way of funding is from the local self-government budget. Aman, guys, how much more of this burden is he gonna get on local self-government? First, you cut down their transfer funds, where you put extra burden on them, where you've made them more difficult, you haven't yet defined how you're going to allocate these reduced funds to local self-government, you're taking parts of their jurisdiction, and now you're burdening them extra, that they're raising funds from the budget for some kind of district association, for whose association and formation as a business company have no interest at all. How did you define that district associations have any interest in being financed by local self-government? Why would local self-government do that? Ask them if they want to. An additional imposition on local self-government, as this really doesn't make sense anymore, what policy the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading towards local self-government. All the funding that you could, as you said, save, when it comes to government, you put on local self-government, instead of doing one normal, ordinary thing, which is to put aside the unilateral application of the SAA and thus relieve local self-government and end this shameful decision on the reduction of transfer funds. No, you can't give up on your own, or I don't know whose policy to unilaterally apply the SAA, so when they can't get the money, then hit the local self-government, and that's not enough. We have some other, different concepts, such as this concept, completely pointless, forming district associations, and thus burden additional local self-government. I don't know what else you're going to think of putting local self-governments on the line. It's really amazing what kind of politics this government is running. I don't think the centralised policy towards local administrations has been led so far. It's just amazing and you can't explain it to anyone in Serbia, in cities, in municipalities, what the point of this policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22627	Thank you. On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22628	Thank you. This amendment to Article 38. The draft law has been requested to delete the first point of the said member, and concerns the revenues that the district association makes by performing business, as a company which was also referred to in the earlier amendment, with this insurmountable explanation for which the amendment is not accepted, and then the copying of the same member and point. In the case of revenues, i.e. funds, it is known that this new single instrument for pre-accession assistance for the EU fiscal period from 2007 to 2013, which brings together the current mechanisms, has been allocated to Serbia around 200m euros annually. When we just remember those unreasonable decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, it is clear that by abolishing such a decision we could provide the funds ourselves, which means that the regionalisation of Serbia is just an excuse, i.e. that it is an unreal story, and the funds that are meant for this route will be used for some other things. In the use of all EU funds, it is clear that there are some strict rules on how they must be used; they must be separated from other budgets, placed on a special account and used in accordance with public procurement rules applicable to non-EU countries. That's the so-called. Rules, failures are punishable. By applying the proposed law and taught by experience so far, it is clear that we will experience the experiences of neighbouring countries, Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia. I will remind only that Romania, in August of last year, was suspended from paying 150m euros to raise the competitiveness of agriculture, while Bulgaria, in the middle of last year, was also...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22629	Thank you. On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr. Avramovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22630	My amendment also refers to the funds for the implementation of development projects and the performance of the district association's affairs, where, at point 2), it is specified that they refer to the budgets of local self-government units from the territory of the area for which it was established. We have heard from previous colleagues that the budgets of local self-government are quite burdened by the powers of the central government and that they are not able to provide all these funds, which is being set in motion, is only a question of the quality of the work of this district agency. It is widely known that, in addition to the heavy burden on the budget of local self-government, there has also been dependence on higher levels of government. For example, Belgrade's city municipalities have local community status and expect funding for any kind of project from the City Assembly. Local units and cities in Serbia expect the most from the NIP, relative to political commitment and compared to the projects they have proposed to the NIP. What is essential, I must remind you, is that, when we discussed the 2009 draft budget, we SRS MPs asked that some of the funds from some agencies, which should promote a pothole or warm water, be given to local self-government and to develop local self-government. These amendments, suggestions and discussions were not respected, and now we will be in a position to ask for something, although we know that the budgets of local self-government are minimal. Now I suggest you put one preamble into this law, which is that this law cannot be annulled, must last at least 100 years and must always be in force, so that the party G17 plus survives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22631	On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as with the other members, I suggest you delete this. The bottom line is: this kind of employment, the state government increases the administration and thus, instead of seizing the funds into work and employment, separates them for the work of the state service. Article 38(2) states that the funds will be provided through revenue generated by the conduct of the operations. The question is, which will be the jobs? On the other hand, through the budget units of local self-government. It will most likely be the only source from which the funds for the work of district associations will be alimentated. Then – from donations, sponsorships, various assistance from domestic and foreign legal and natural persons etc. The question is, how much will the funds be provided on this basis? Most likely, there won't be any. The municipalities and local self-government will provide all the resources for the work of the district associations, thus strengthening the huge problems we have in the public sector. There is a commitment imposed by the budget and by another sublegal act – a 10% reduction in the number of administrations. We don't reduce it this way, we increase it. Looks like it's a game of current authorities. What we need to fire, through these new employment types, we're just going to transfer from one resistor to another resistor. He's going to get fired here, he's going to get a new solution here, and that's how we're going to solve the matter of his staff. We're gonna get a new job instead of really losing our jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22633	On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22634	I did not conclude in previous reporting a sentence relating to the tasks carried out by the regional agency referred to in Article 35(5), which states that the regional agency is preparing and implementing training programmes for the development of companies and entrepreneurship, infrastructure development and the development of institutions and organisations in its region. If we were even in favour of this law, and we weren't, because we think it's very dangerous to destroy, step by step, the state of Serbia, then it would only be logical here that, eventually, the regional agency is left to deal with infrastructure development activities, of course, in coordination with the ministries. The regional agency, as it stands here, is preparing and implementing expert training programmes for the needs of the development of companies and entrepreneurship. Madam Minister, who's going to let you do this? Do companies and entrepreneurs need some associations that you will form at the Ministry, or do they themselves know that they manage their good and have what they earn? Or, you're saying they're going to do the job of developing institutions and organizations in their region. This is exactly what we've been saying for two days about this law. If this regional agency is to take care of institutions and organisations in its region, that is to say, to assess which institutions and organisations should exist, which should be developed, which should be destroyed, it is precisely in favour of our claim that this is a very bad and devastating law for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22635	Thank you. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22636	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 39 concerning the tasks entrusted by the legislator to the district association. What do we say about these jobs? Mrs. Radeta was defending another member before me. She could read the same thing that I will read, when it comes to the business of district associations – prepare and implement training programmes for the development of companies and entrepreneurship, infrastructure development and development of institutions and organisations, and improve the capacity of units of local self-government that form an area in which the district association operates. What can someone say to someone who reads this? What does he have to say about the jobs you entrusted to the district association? That's, in the broadest and most portable sense, the circus. You're known as people who invent certain jobs. They're completely unnecessary, and they cost a hell of a lot. G17 has so far proved to be an organization that and how well it can spend people's money, justifying it to do that, like, for the interests of the people. The DSS believes that this member should not exist, that there should not be a regional council, that there should be no district associations, because there is no need between local self-government and the ministry for no other bridge to need local self-government, which knows what needs and what priority it is, transfers to the Ministry of Regional Development, which should communicate directly with those who know what they need.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22637	On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22638	Thank you. When you have a completely bad bill, then it is quite logical that its points and attitudes are unacceptable, so the amendment is proposed to point 1 of Article 39. The proposal for a law on regional development is deleted, and it is a matter of dealings that the district association should carry out, i.e. to participate in the preparation and implementation of development documents and to monitor their implementation at the level of the area. Given that in the recent amendment, I did not have time to present all the data I intended, here, I will now announce that in the middle of last year Bulgaria was also suspended first, and then more than 800m euros of aid were permanently seized, and the accreditation of two government agencies in charge of managing the funds was withdrawn. In early 2008, Croatia was temporarily frozen projects under the Far 2006 programme and 5m euros in reduced IPA funds, all due to weaknesses in implementing a decentralised EU fund management system. By the way, all the facts suggest that Serbia is one of the most centralised countries in Europe, beginning with a government organisation, where most of the intelligence is concentrated at the level of the Republic of Serbia, through demographic projects that point to the real disappearance of small communities and multiple increases in the capital, up to culture and sports organisations. This complexity of the centralisation issue suggests that access to this problem must be cautious, as unrealisation of the environment, capacity and potential for decentralisation can have very negative consequences for Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22639	Thank you. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Do you, Mr. Avramovic, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22640	I'm sorry, but I didn't hear you. My amendment also refers to the type of co-operation of the district association that should have priority, related to autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, when it comes to preparing and applying local development plans. It is widely known that statistical areas are reportedly being introduced, not regions, because this is a political term that marks a theory under legal subjectivity, for better redistribution of funds and more uniform regional development. However, lawmakers themselves deny this by subsequent allegations that areas or regions are formed to obtain funds from pre-accession EU funds. If statistical areas, or statistical regions, through their agencies, will be able to compete for IPA funds, how will regions serve even regional development, that is, the policy that the state is leading with its efforts, the affirmation of endangered areas? Now a percentage of 1% of the state budget is also mentioned, which will be allocated in such a way that the poorer areas get more. This could have been done without statistical areas, so it has been, however, not quite effective, with 1% of the funds to raise the country's completely devastated ends. It is important to note that no statistical region is needed to help undeveloped municipalities in Serbia, nor is its apparatus proposed by this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22641	Thank you. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22642	I have submitted an amendment to Article 39(1) point 3. I'll read it for the public. It refers to the district association, which performs the following tasks. In point 3, it is said – it represents an area of interest in relations with the National Agency and the regional agency and participates in the realisation of adopted development documents within its competence. What is mentioned in Article 39 refers to the rights and obligations of the district association. And previous members, who have defined the status of this association, speak clearly about how it will employ a number of people in municipalities that can raise funds. It's going to be a lot of people, and these jobs show that it's a huge part of the job. So, new administration. In one example, I'm going to illustrate illustrating how we employ the administration, multiplying the administration, increasing, sometimes fictitious, and sometimes without any valid basis, the number of civil service workers. One information that illustrates this is that in 2008, the Privatisation Agency spent two billion and 500 million dinars, and, through the Development Fund, the Government of the Republic of Serbia allocated 2 billion 750 million for new employment. You see, we lost 2.5 billion funds. Instead of turning them into employment, we would again, by hiring, also have taxes and contributions, have a new profit, a new matter from which we could reconcile everything that the state is funded from, we invested those funds in a para-state institution that doesn't have a local function...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22643	Thank you. Time's over, Mr. Buha, I'm sorry. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22644	First of all, two sentences relating to this previous amendment to Article 38, which speaks of what the funds for the work and implementation of development projects and the performance of the activities of the district association are, i.e. how they are provided. It says that these are the revenues that he has made by performing the jobs, the budget of the local self-government units from the territory of the area for which he was founded, donations, sponsorship, development aid for domestic and foreign legal and natural persons, and then you say -- and other sources, in accordance with the law. I don't see what other source that could be, given that all possible legal sources are already listed in these three points. I link this to the previous amendment, which I spoke about, to Article 35, where the regional agency prepares and implements expert training programmes for the needs of companies and entrepreneurship. The logical question arises, that you do not, through this law, intend to recalibrate entrepreneurship and business societies? It is also a similar amendment to Article 39, where I have suggested erasing point 4, where it is said which jobs are carried out by the district agency. It's exactly the same at point 4, as in Article 35, where it's foreseen what the regional agency is doing. It's amazing that you're talking about completely two different things, which are nowhere, at least not in the same territory. Isn't it obvious that there will be a conflict, a overlap of jurisdiction, because the two organisations have the same jurisdiction in the same territory, again, obviously, just to build up the administration and to hire more who knows how many people on the burden of Serbian citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22645	On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22646	This amendment shall require the removal of point 5 from Article 39. However, in order to be able to understand what this is about, I will specify what is, for example, written in Article 29, on the National Agency. There is point 2 – follow and implement measures and implement and force further, and then, Article 35 – regional agency, point 2 – follow and implement measures and implements, and now point 5 within Article 39, for the district association, and it also monitors, implements measures and implements. Here you can see the manuscript of Mladjan Dinkic. He's got someone following someone, and he needs something to be done and realized. You know what it's like at Dinkic's -- you want a year's surplus, you got a surplus. You want a deficit next year, you have a deficit. You want to see the Fiat, you'll see it in the picture. You want free action, you get free action. Simply, what the media says is interesting, it puts it into some legal norm and the rule of behavior of that small but very dangerous group called G17 plus. It is not worth even talking about how pointless this law is, because this law, in practice, should allow the parting of the Republic of Serbia. On what grounds? Based on the fact that someone out there simply strengthens their appetite, so they say – this is a way to prevent "biogradation". This isn't a way to stop the "Belogradation" at all. This is just a way of hosting the G17 plus personnel and creating some basics, or some kind of paper that could be applied to some, for some means, where we're not going to get those funds, nor are we going to benefit from any of them. The whole story of this Schengen, etc., these days is interesting not for us, but for Europe. Why? (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. ) Just a second, because they need tourists from Serbia who have money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22647	On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) I'm sorry, you're not... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22648	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone in Serbia that there is no even regional development, but has anyone given a clear answer, and this was expected by a government representative, or government, why is that? There are certainly factors and problems that have been accumulated for decades, but since 2000, we can freely say that there was no household behavior, there was no strategy, there was no robbery privatisation. That doesn't even have to be proved today. It's a fact that's easily proven. There is not a single bank in Serbia that credits the economy today, tell me one at least on favourable terms, they have suspended it entirely, except for this one Moscow bank, which came precisely with that goal, and during that time these four domestic banks that are under bankruptcy have and how much money, with which no one can do anything, because they are practically blocked, stand in their accounts and cannot spin. Who's brought the state into this situation, in any form since 2000? Now this law is trying to fix a mistake and make those access funds closer to the ones that are needed, and if not all those companies had failed, and if you hadn't all those banks that you supported, we wouldn't have needed those access funds, the state wouldn't have been in additional debt, or the citizens, us and our grandchildren, would have been in additional debt. You here, I mean the Serbian government, first of all, are selling fog.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22649	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39. Proposal for a law on regional development, with point 8 being deleted in Article 39. Article 39 refers to the description of district association operations. The district association shall represent, as stated in Article 37, a company or association established to carry out regional development activities. Who will set it up, you can assume for yourself – whoever invented these regions, and whoever formed the regional agencies will also form a company that, by performing the jobs referred to in Article 39, will somehow hold in their hands all the levers of the future development of the region, if at all. So, the man is currently Mladjan Dinkic, a "savior" of undeveloped, poor areas, municipalities and areas. I ask the government's representatives - how much so far have the subsidies, incentives, donations been directed towards undeveloped municipalities, and what has been the result? What makes you think you'll be successful now, that you'll be able to even the region's development, if you haven't been able to do it by now? What you will succeed in doing is equating all regions, but in poverty, and in irreparable poverty. The evidence of all this is fired workers, destroyed villages, agricultural holdings that can't function, failed businesses, crime at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22651	On Article 40, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, my colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 40, which says: "The district association submits an annual report on the business of the regional agency in its region and the National Agency. Where necessary, the regional agency, the National Agency and the Ministry may request additional business reports. The national agency and the regional agency are once a year evaluating the work of district associations. Closer terms and criteria for evaluation as set out in Article 3 are prescribed by the minister responsible for regional development tasks. "In our concept of even regional development, we have stated that these district associations are unnecessary and that this job can be done by the National Agency. I am sorry that this national agency was not formed two years ago, when a strategy of even regional development was adopted, which should have been the bearer of that strategy, and as far as this strategy is concerned, everyone gave a positive opinion, even your ministry. Funds have been provided for the strategy, and this strategy is one proposal for good intentions. I am sorry that your ministry did not think in this context that this agency should be opened two years ago, when conditions existed, and led by Mladjan Dinkic, who, according to the government's suggestions, should have formed this agency, which should have been the bearer of this strategy of equal regional development. A strategy of equal regional development has been implemented in some other countries, such as Greece, by the way. They made one strategy 20-30 years ago... I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22653	Thank you. Member of the 40 amendments was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word is Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22654	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40(1) with a request to be deleted. The public works, just to say that I did it with this district association, where it is scheduled that an annual report on business prides the regional agency in its region and the National Agency. In view of the fact that the legislator, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, has adopted a proposal for such a law, since this implies a commitment made after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 113, it is clear that, instead of regionalisation, which the Ministry envisaged as an incentive for undeveloped areas, it continues to foresee the existence of privileged and discriminatory areas. That the whole bill is a simple colourful lie, it is probably best illustrated by the fact that even the bill says that the Euroregion is not an administrative territorial unit and has no legal subjectivity, which, translated into a simple language, means that the region does not exist in any way other than geographically, and Minister Dinkic has formulated something different, so he told the public that it is statistical regions. I think he made that statement in November last year. So, if one region doesn't have any legal subjectivity, then it doesn't exist, it can't have either the assembly or its own resources, or its own administration, or anything that would hold it in the position of autonomy in relation to the central government. Here we meet the fact that centralism and some sort of illusion of regionalization, and essentially, all that is envisaged is to double what we already have in the form of the county, with the difference that the environment as we already have more jurisdiction than the region. This is not about anything but about any masked centralism, but in Serbia, everything that is illogical is logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22655	On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22656	And my amendment concerns the functioning of the district association, which is due to submit an annual report on business to the regional agency in its region and the National Agency. Paragraph 2 states: "If necessary, the regional agency, the National Agency and the Ministry may request additional business reports". Now I ask, why can they ask? Is that some kind of decentralisation? Why would they have to report to the National Agency, the Regional Agency or the Ministry? If we consider that it is financed by local self-government and that it can report to the local self-government from which it is financed, and that there is a Ministry of Finance, I do not know what the purpose of this decentralisation is, i.e. Control and even one small district agency? I also ask the following question – is there perhaps an interest in the excessive inflow of the resources of a district association? It's the only reason the agency or the ministry is looking for insight. Maybe they've made more money, maybe you want to take some funds from them, or they want you to put in a district association for some new ones? It introduces a very strict centralisation of institutions that are formed by this law and that says all regional agencies are subordinated to the National Agency, the Council, which includes representatives of the Serbian government. This does not give the right for development regions to be there only for the purpose of transmitters, rather than initiators of development policy. The proposal for a Regional Development Act lists almost identical competences of all agencies, including the National, but states in some places that it is likely that centralised logic is subordinated to the National Development Agency. We don't see decentralisation anywhere, and that's why we suggested erasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22657	On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 40(3), which says -- the National Agency and the regional agency are once a year evaluating the work of district associations. Legally, it's a very bad solution. What does it mean – evaluation of the work of district associations? In a legal-technical sense, I suppose it is understood that a report is being submitted. The report submitted is an annual report on the regional agency's business in the region and the National Agency. At that time, the assessment of the results of the work of the district association is carried out, and thus the evaluation of the work is carried out. The special evaluation of work so far has not been common in our practice and is therefore suggested to delete this. On the other hand, a question of local self-government reports is raised. The local self-government is required to finance and not receive a report. In the conditions of the centres of power, these associations will become more, that is our practice – the centres of power. Local self-government will have problems in normal correspondence with the district, regional and national agencies and therefore it is necessary to install in this bill mandatory reporting of local self-government. Without it, it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22659	On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22660	First, for the sake of the public, I would remind myself once again that we Serbian radicals claim that this whole law on regional development, or its proposal, is contrary to the Constitution, and Article 8(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. A few days ago, the president of the state, commenting on this bill, which, whether you admit it or not, raised quite a bit of dust and fear among the citizens of Serbia and the public, said that this law does not mean the division of the state, but the division of wealth. When Minister Dinkic represented here, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this law, among other things, claimed that this law represents decentralisation, one of the types of decentralisation, and was talked about dedebogradation, etc. But, Mrs. Kalanovic, article 40, in her last, fourth position, you're being denied. Even if you could answer the questions that Mr Buha just asked, I don't know how you would explain this 4th position, which I have suggested to delete, which says that the conditions and criteria for evaluation set out in Article 3 of this article are set out by the Minister responsible for regional development affairs. Article 3 says that the National Agency and the regional agency are once a year evaluating the work of district associations. If you truly think this law is passed only because of the distribution of wealth, according to Tadic, or decentralisation, according to Dinkic, why will the ministry interfere with the evaluation of the work of district agencies?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22661	Thank you. On Article 40, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Mr. Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22662	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member of the 40th Law, as we have already heard, refers to the obligation of the district association to submit an annual report as a way of evaluating its work in the previous year. As LDP, we have proposed an amendment to Article 4 of the Law, where we are asking that the conditions and criteria for evaluation set out in Article 3 be brought forward by the National Agency, unlike the Bills, where it is proposed that the Minister responsible for regional development affairs do so. With this amendment, we want to move some of the functions, namely the obligations that the draft law assumes on itself, i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development, to some of the agencies that are foreseen by this law. If the district associations are financed in part from the budget of local self-government, it is quite logical that these conditions of the agency's work values give maybe local self-government, not just the ministry. The declarative approach to regionalisation as a precondition for developing undeveloped municipalities, the clumsyly selected terms, the mixing of administrative and territorial-static regionalisation, central control, the unequal definition of future regions, have made this bill a mix of ideas which is why LDP cannot support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22663	Thank you. To the title above Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22664	The amendment refers to accreditation. I must repeat that the objective of moving from centralised to decentralised management system of EU funds is to make quite a gradual preparation of countries that are EU members. They should slowly assume competences in fund management from the European Commission. The process of introducing the DIS is an extremely long process, which takes about 36 months and requires direct participation and state institutions, which we do not have, involved in the process of building the system. If we take into account the standards of our country and the standards of EU member states, you will be quite clear that we have long been late in the process. Because of this, we were a little hasty and we did some steps that we might not need, because they won't produce results until 2020 and some of them until we join the EU. We appointed a national accreditation officer, a national approval officer, a national IPA coordinator and a strategic coordinator, and has further data that are under way to prepare for the legal basis in the establishment of a national fund. There are certain specific operational structures that should be responsible for the management and implementation of the audit work, in accordance with the principles of our well-known management policies. So the conclusion that can be made is that we are preparing for something that we are not capable of and that we want to enter a race with much faster and better; we cannot admit to ourselves that we are essentially institutionally and financially unable to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22665	On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22666	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in Article 41, say - the right to accreditation has a company established as a limited liability society and associations established under the Association Act, which, in the description of their work, also has business in the field of regional development (a little bit of it) and to support companies and entrepreneurship, whose majority founders (more than 50%) and majority capital owners (more than 50%) of the local self-government unit from the territory of the territory of the local self-government. Item 2 says – closer to the conditions, criteria and method of accreditation and termination of accreditation before the expiry of the time prescribed by the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry. I ask the question – why do we leave it to the Ministry and the Government? We had to define this by this law, to know exactly who would prescribe the conditions, criteria and method of accreditation, as well as the termination of accreditation. It could, within one or two members, be incorporated into this bill and be its component. It is further said – the accreditation procedure is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure. In addition to this legislation, a number of other legislation regulates the issue of procedures and substances closer to the conditions, criteria and methods of accreditation, so, according to the SRS, all of this had to be an integral part of this legislation, clearly incorporated, clearly. This is how it is undefined, especially attitude 1, which is too widespread, has opened up the possibility for everyone, and closer to conditions, criteria, etc. We left it to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22667	Thank you. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22668	I just couldn't finish this on the so-called. decentralisation which is not, by direct interference of the Minister, or the Ministry in the area of association. Now we have something similar in Article 41, when it comes to the right to accreditation. The Government proposed, in Section 1, that is, who has the right to accreditation: a business company, there is 50% capital of the unit of local self-government, but then again in the second position, we have proposed to delete that position, to bring closer to the conditions, criteria and method of accreditation and to stop accreditation before the time at which the government was given, on a proposal from the ministry. First of all, you described who has the right to accreditation and now you're letting the government, on a proposal from the ministry, not knowing which, which determines the nearer conditions, criteria and method of accreditation. Article 3 is also interesting where the accreditation procedure is envisaged to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure. This attitude is absolutely unnecessary to you and this is a legal prenup, the lawyers would say. Of course, nothing in this area can be done unless it is in accordance with the general administrative procedure, in terms of decision-making and decision-making procedures, but what kind of administrative procedure may have to do with the conditions, criteria and method of accreditation. (President: Time.) This is either not a good translation, or he didn't look at any lawyers within the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22669	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22670	Mr. Novakovic, look, please, you understand a little bit about what's called law, so you'll see how pointless what's written in Article 41 is. At the National Assembly session, we have a law on associations. Are you familiar with the fact that there are associations of citizens who will have more than 50% of the founding capital of local self-government? That's what it says in the attitude of the first member of yours. How is that possible? Are you talking there in the government, or are you arguing? The ownership, or participation of state capital or capital of local self-government extends to a limited-responsibility society, to the citizens' association, but you planned to build your citizens' associations so that it is enough to be three; you will take those who have already proven themselves in these feasibility studies and they will now be smart. Now, planetary nonsense – the way of accreditation is the process. The synonym for the word "proceeds" is "the way." Now we're going to have a government that will prescribe a way of accreditation, and then it's going to stand down to apply the general administrative procedure law. It remains unclear whether, as far as these district associations are concerned, one or more accredited ones will be at the level of the area. By the logic of things, it should be one. Is there a competition coming up, what's going on? You've done this so badly, it's practically inadmissible. Let me remind you, the first time we passed the Public Procurement Act, they had some bad Slovenian translation, and it looked nothing like the law. I get the impression that you've translated this one from Japanese without a Japanese language expert. I don't know what bright mind this could have come up with. (President: I thank you, Mr. Krasic.) You could've asked Paytić, since he's the most capable of breaking up...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22671	Thank you. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22672	The amendment to Article 42 refers to the first accreditation carried out by the National Agency by the draft law. The national agency shall carry out the first accreditation with a limited liability company, or association, Article 41, which it says – established as a limited liability company and associations established under the Association Act. We are witnesses of all associations and how they function, what roles they play, so there's a fear of misuse of giving accreditation to an association that may not have anything to do with this local self-government, just sitting on its territory. Accreditation is something that guarantees, which the SRS might, perhaps, give to some NGOs, to work to improve regional development and support businesses, by perhaps working to destroy political parties that advocate the opposite. Therefore, the principled view that accreditation is being carried out by the Ministry and that it has deadlines under which the minister responsible for regional development affairs will decide whether the complaint will be adopted or not only in favour of another centralisation, in which the minister will be able to accredit some NGOs or associations that can work on the damage of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22673	Thank you. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22674	It's clear that there's centralised here and these accreditations are so designed that the central government does them. However, we in Article 42 have deleted this game you have done with regional agencies and this division of work where the first accreditation of companies will be carried out by the National Agency, and if this accreditation is renewed, then the renewal of that accreditation will be carried out by the regional agency. Oh, come on! You've created one structure that's complicated. You have made one administration that is complicated and will obviously serve one single political party in Serbia, which is G17 plus, which will make its regional party, where even when it changes the next day, in the elections of the Minister, and when the National Agency is changed, and we know that it is elected under this law, we will never in life change the composition of regional agencies, which means that local self-government and business societies will be the majority of dance hostages with accreditation by these regional agencies. That's a very mean intention. First it's expensive, then it's irrational, it's complicated and it's mean. I know that the minister will not accept this amendment, because if she accepted this amendment, it would cut the branch she decided to sit on, along with her colleagues from G17 Plus, including the president and the idea maker of this blast, Mladjan Dinkic. Therefore, this amendment, like the others before that, speaks of what kind of prejudice you've made with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22675	On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22676	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 42(2). The bill stands – the first accreditation is valid for two years, and every next – five years, with the possibility of renewal. I think this is a very bad solution. And the procedure that's scheduled for article 41 is incomplete, so we're going to mislead all those who seriously want to deal with this business. The question is, is it a question of the minister, the minister is coming, which is why the first accreditation is only valid for two years, and every next five years? What are these reasons, what are these justifiable reasons to go for two years? Should we check on that subject? We have great opportunities in the legal system to check it through jobs, not this way. On the other hand, the accreditation itself and the conditions prescribed by the minister and the government will likely create monetary assumptions to meet all conditions that could work in this area. So we have a two-year deadline, and then we rebuild and we have five. We've been complicated for no reason. You need to think this through. We suggested erasing. Any other combination, e.g. For four years, it is appropriate, and tones as provided for in Article 42 - for first accreditation of the National Agency, and for those being renewed regionally. That is the case with the confiscation, it says – accreditation is taken away when an accredited entity ceases to meet the requirements for accreditation. The First Accreditation Act is passed by the National Agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22677	Thank you. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet Radeto. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22678	I suggested that Article 42, paragraph 3, be deleted. He also talks about accreditation and predicts that the renewal of accreditation is carried out by a regional agency. He said earlier that the first accreditation was carried out by the National Agency, so how long was the first, so how many other accreditations, and now the question that I already asked when I was talking about the amendment to Article 41, Article 3, - where is the minister now? If it was to be in Article 41, then it should be in Article 42. If he's not in Article 42, then we were right when we suggested he shouldn't even be in Article 41. You, I have looked at the reasons why you do not accept this amendment, you have given the same explanation for the amendment to Article 41 and for the amendment to Article 42, and these two amendments are essentially different regardless of what they say about accreditation, because the meaning and purpose of the amendment to Article 41 is contrary to Article 42. This only speaks of how unseriously the Government has approached this bill, how unserious it has been to decide on amendments to the MPs, regardless of the amendments of the SRS are such content that we are, in fact, proposing to delete the entire text of the law, because we believe that such a dangerous law should not exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22679	Thank you. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22680	Mr. Novakovic, you might want to take a look at article 42 and you'll see. I'm just surprised you didn't urinate with your party buddies to sort this out. You know, there's something called a detour, something called jurisdiction and there's one rule within jurisdiction -- who can do more, can do less. You've completely annulled all these things and proved that you can do something that's not in charge, and one that has less to do and more. It's extremely complicated, as my Nishli would say – some smart writer is probably famous for what he's thinking with his brain. Where's your brain to write this? This is so contradictory and pointless, I haven't had a chance to read the stupider regulation, and all those years just by the regulations of the baratam. I see it's in direct proportion to the nonsense of corruption. A very stupid and very corrupt regulation, a regulation that destroys the structure of this state and this society and, of course, is meant for the media to sow up some stories again, and the people act like a goose in the fog. Whoever's in charge, whoever's betraying something, can take it away. He who is not competent to betray cannot take away. As you're on your way, you're going to bring this down to the level of not the local community, but the streets, any "worship" can credentials for a job. If you didn't have a better rapper to look at how this works, why didn't you take regulations on higher education, where there's also some accreditation? Why didn't you take the regulations that speak of licences and certificates, and compare something, but write an expert, not knowing what he wrote, but -- let's go and make sure that this is pro-European. It's all pro-European what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22681	Thank you. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22682	Mr Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we wanted to express through our amendments is that the wrong historic and economic moment in which the government proposes a law like this, because in society the government of general poverty, the economy works in difficult conditions, and here, above all, I think of those who have survived all of this, in an attempt to bring our legislation closer to the EU and to work in difficult conditions. Explaining the previous amendment, I began to talk about another affair, so to speak, in an announcement, which is the privatisation of the Belgrade Fair. It was done in such a perfidious way that it was presented to the public as if the city of Belgrade and as if the citizens of Belgrade had received something, and in fact, in the Republic's budget we lost funds and in the city's budget we lost funds. That's why you need laws like this now, to even certain regions. Namely, 50:50, the figure-fifty of that sale means nothing, because the state will receive less funding, and the City will receive less funds, because the country's 11 hectares around the Belgrade Fair are worth much more than 50% of the privatisation funds. The second thing is, is it possible that the city of Belgrade has some special conditions when it comes to the Privatisation Act, i.e. why have local self-governments been disabled compared to the city of Belgrade? Because of such behaviour and agreement between individual officials from individual political parties, first of all, I mean DS, it's possible that something like this is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22683	On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22684	My amendment refers to the National Agency which runs the Single Register of Accredited District Associations, in the text below. I must, for who knows which time, work for the public, meet the citizens that only a regional state is being introduced and that what is called by this bill has no legal subjectivity in the region, nor was it possible to do so by legal means, because Article 172. The constitution says that the formation of a region or province is only possible by a procedure that includes changing the Constitution. So, Article 182. The constitution says new autonomous provinces can be established and already established to abolish or merge under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. There was no change in the Constitution. The proposal for the establishment of new or abolishing, i.e. the merger of existing autonomous provinces, determines citizens in a referendum, in accordance with the law. There was no referendum. The territory of autonomous provinces cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens, expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the law. So there was no referendum. It's perfectly natural, if we suggest that there should be no accreditation of district associations or some associations and societies, we suggest that the register of accredited district associations be deleted. So, by the nature of things, the members of the 42nd and 43th are closely connected, and the connection between these two members is also the term "explicate" because it is the only interest of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22685	Thank you. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22686	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposer in Article 43, in item 1, wrote: "The National Agency runs the Single Register of Accredited District Associations". The DSS, consistent with its concept that we are trying to pass on, on Friday and today, believes that the words: "district associations" should be deleted and are only being guided as entities. It means, "The National Agency runs a single register of entities." What makes us think that? We've said more than once how important it is to remove these vast representations, national agencies, district agencies, and bring it to one normal level, so that the state can function. We see that the proposaler's intention is to create an administrative dinosaur, whose job will be only to spill from hollow to empty, and that costs very much to the citizens of Serbia. They, with the upside-down policy of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, were brought to the beggar stick by the full incompetence of the government and the resolution ministers, and I don't see who can bring all of this out of what budget. Let's ask a question - who will be employed in these entities, is it possible that 8,000 jobs, how many jobs do you have to reduce the number of people in the state administration, will remain empty now? Are these places you predict with district associations, regional agencies and similar jobs where these 8,000 people are just going to be transferred? I don't think we're gonna get anywhere with this. This is all fictitious, this is all one fog sale, what you've been doing since the start of the formation of this government is spilling from hollow to empty, selling fog to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22687	Thank you. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22688	One bad suggestion again. I'll read this article and give you my interpretation and explanation. It is said: "The National Agency is running a single register of accredited district agencies". Paragraph 2 states: "Registration in Registrar is public", and in point 3: "Content and appearance of the register of the first member's position is prescribed by the minister responsible for regional development affairs". I ask the question of the Minister-proposer, and thus to the Government – what about all others who have received accreditation? What about those whose credentials have been taken, do they enter the register? They have to come in. All who have received accreditation must enter, and hence the regional agency that runs, conducts the procedure, too, must run the register. Why isn't that built in here? It must be incorporated into the draft law that, in addition to the National Agency, the register, as soon as it implements the procedure, issue accreditation, withdraws the accreditation unless the conditions provided for by law are met, as provided for in Article 42 of this Bill. You're saying here - the registration of the registry is public. I guess that's what that means. Why are you putting it into the law? That's unnecessary. What you need, what you have to do, don't predict it. This clearly speaks about the seriousness of the promoter, because those notorious things, the notor facts, the data we have to have in the register, don't predict, and what's common in legal practice, in legal rules, you build it up, so in this law we have many things that shouldn't have been built into it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22689	Thank you. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22690	Article 43 states that a single register of accredited district associations is being conducted in the National Agency, that insight into this register is public and, as is present, and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on another basis, other than this basis in Article 8(1), you say that the content and appearance of the register referred to in Article 1 of this Article is prescribed by the Minister responsible for regional development affairs. In almost every law, such failures occur, and we have tried every time to convince the minister, the government's representative, who represents one of the laws here, that the state body is a ministry, as an integral part of the government, and that the minister is only an elder of the state and that the minister cannot have such powers. I don't want to talk about a specific minister at all, whether I have or don't trust this minister, of course I don't, as I don't have in the whole government. It is not about which the minister is concerned personally, but about the fact that the minister, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, cannot have such information. It's amazing that for years we've been talking about it, and we haven't been able to convince the ministers, or this secretariat of yours for legislation, to really pay attention once to what we're drawing attention to. Only one minister, last time he was here, accepted one amendment in the course of the debate itself, interestingly, only one, and all others, with the same content, did not accept; he probably had some intervention that such amendments could not be accepted. I really don't understand, as a lawyer, first of all, why.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22691	On the head above Article 44, the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the head above article 44. Article 44 says, "The measures to encourage regional development determines the government on a proposal from the ministry, in line with the National Plan, regional strategies and programmes to fund regional development." The proposal is to delete the head above article 44, and the reason is in the next. According to data that we could obtain in the National Assembly and in the means of information, we saw that Serbia, between 2001 and today, had 16 billion euros of direct investment in the financial system. We had 18 billion euros in foreign foreign currency transfers delivered by our citizens. We've had three billion euros since privatisation. Then, we had international aid in various ways, about 4.5 billion. We had a withdrawal of funds, what banks were doing, abroad, 7-8 billion euros. So it's a total of 50-55 billion euros, what's pumped into the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, what was life, in terms of the government's determination to finance certain programmes. At least it's invested in regional development, and that's what the indicators we have and that's what we get every day show us. This government, and all the governments that have been in the period since 2001. For years, they didn't take care of regional development. Today, under the conditions of difficulty incurring, the economic crisis, the financial system...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22693	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22694	This law is not political in any sense, and I do not want to answer this question in the way that the government found in 2000 in various areas – in agriculture, in the social, in infrastructure, in the economy, in all areas where intervention was to be done. It is not my job today to remind the citizens of Serbia, it is my job to say today what is true in the previous two years, through the programme orientations of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development towards the development of the region. If we look at what measures and incentives are, the measures are programs, instruments, and incentives are monetary assets that are differentiated towards municipalities and cities, depending on the degree of development. I roughly made a list, although the list is much longer, which are the basic programs that have been directed over the past two years to raise regional development. Of course we can discuss all of them in detail, and their effects, but when I'm done with the list in which direction the effects would be strengthened if we had the appropriate institutional framework. We often mention institutions as post-op, when we need them, but we don't talk about institutions at the moment when there are laws that define their work in front of us and we don't speak in the right way about the importance of these institutions when we want to bring them closer to the citizens. Let's start with the program, the start-up program, or, in plain language, loans for beginners, for those who started their own business, for which two and a half billion dinars were allocated in this year, for which two billion were realised last year. In 2008, 1,607 companies were open, some of them we saw on television, and some we could personally meet and see that they were mostly small businesses, but which significantly improved entrepreneurship and employment by one, two, three people from family households, but that were once overgrown, as is the case, in Ariel, to entire small companies for 40 employees. The programme of entrepreneurship development in 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, through the Development Fund, which since 2007, by two billion dinars directs for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, with an interest rate, first 1%, today 0.5%. These are the loans that serve to revive the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which should be the bearers of the development of these municipalities, and these are the cheapest funds that can be found today in Europe, with the lowest interest, with the longest repayment deadline, with a grace period of one year, even three years, if it is clean investments. The programme of public works, which is worth 1 billion and 300,000 dinars this year, employs those most vulnerable in central Serbia -- working groups and those who have spent many years in the transition process on employment lists. According to the infrastructure development programme in 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, through the National Investment Plan, this year 2,000,000,000 is focusing on infrastructure development. I've talked about that program before. Industrial Zone Development Program. If we start from Belgrade to Nis, it's enough to look away; I'll mention some municipalities, without mentioning which party the presidents are from in those municipalities, even though I know it, or maybe you want me to mention them, there's no problem. For example, an industrial zone in the Great Plan, then an industrial zone in Lapovo, then an industrial zone in Kragujevac, then an industrial zone in Šapac at 600 hectares, then an industrial zone in Loznica, then an industrial zone in Zrenjanin, then an industrial zone in Bačko Petrovac, all of these are new industrial zones that have created and opened up a number of new factories. Incubator development, business incubator development. I only mention two, which are greenfields, which are made from ice, so that it is not that we have transferred them from the old factories, although there are those in Kragujevac and Nis; in Prokuplje and Užica there are two completely new ones. A programme to encourage greenfield investment, or those investors that are domestic or foreign and set up new factories where they employ 50 or more people. The truth is, 70 of those programs were, one was completely ruined. Support programmes for associations, entrepreneurs, a programme for raising competitiveness for small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, a major programme that this country is funding as a support programme, firstly, infrastructure, is the whole programme called the National Investment Plan, which this year has 328 projects, with a number of sub-projects and which is aimed at raising infrastructure in municipalities and cities. One of these projects is the project of forming a car centre in Kragujevac, with infrastructure. Without any desire for my address to be political, I would like to say that yesterday, the Kragujevac showed, in the elections for the local communities, with his exit, and the rich and the results that were shown through raising, both economic and infrastructure, and every other thing, what he thinks about the activities we took in the previous period. It is just a small number of programmes and incentives that in the previous two years the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has focused on raising the region. Of course, this is not enough, of course, that large funds can have significantly higher results, but it is quite clear that this is one long-term process, which is not easy for any country in Europe, which was not easy for us, and neither will we, but if we lead it in one systemically, systematically, investing properly, so that institutions lead the whole process, with respect to needs, proper realization, proper monitoring, measuring effects and increasing effects, our path will be shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22695	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22696	Looks to me like someone mentioned yesterday's election. Tell me, ma'am, since you're talking about the election, how did you go to the right election yesterday? How many votes did your coalition win in the re-election that she wanted to defeat the SNS? Don't mention election advice for local communities. They've got them somewhere every week. You may have heard from Mr. Stevanovic about how it went in Kragujevac. You've just found the choices to appreciate. I ask you, who won Zemun and the Leader? Who will beat you wherever you compete, and I'd like you to compete somewhere on your own, regardless of how tired I am of the election and I recognize cynicism in the voice of a party representative whose Democratic Party is helping to break up the state. You ask – what did you find in 2000? I tried quickly to remember what you found. You found Serbia and Montenegro together in the same state. You found Resolution 1244 on KIM. You have found an extraordinary agreement with the Russian Federation on a duty-free exchange of almost 80% of our two states. You found NIS, Mobile telephony, Cementar, domestic banks and domestic insurance, sugars, Jellyzar, Car factory, production of 30,000 cars in Kragujevac, a budget of only 35,000 000 dinars. What are you doing up today? What's the production in Kragujevac? Production – zero. In 1948, they had more components on the fictitium they made in Kragujevac than they did on the "puntu" today. Where are all the factories I listed today, where are hundreds of thousands of factories, where are hundreds of thousands of workers who lost their jobs, where are the people who cut their fingers to point out what you've done to them? What do you think you're doing? What are you saying in the first place? Some kind of credit we're getting? Who else thinks he took the loan? What did you build with your own hands? What of this huge budget, of 720,000,000 dinars, are you investing in some kind of production? You change tables, chairs, windows. National investment plan, what are you using it for? In consumption? To get something from that consumption into the budget, via VAT? Don't, please, at least in the Assembly, in front of us who have been doing this work for a long time, praise anything. If that were all for praise, today you'd have 40% of the votes, not us. You pulled 50 machines in two days. Yesterday, you cut off the phone links to settlements where the additional elections were held, so we couldn't invite anyone out to the polls. You paid phone bills, you paid unpaid bills for electricity. As your prunes, you're stockpiling this state property. You don't think the people see it? You're destroying regular elections to get an even stronger slap. Why don't you cancel today and what was held yesterday? Come on, to settle down with someone who only had 1.5% yesterday. You have nothing to brag about, but make sure you don't ruin too much until the moment these "yellows" decide to break this pointless coalition with you. Let them go on their own, and let him who wins lead the state, spend the people's money, not you. What did G17 plus deserve to spend people's money on? What can you get yourself up to? Even as an institute, G17 spent people's money. You provided foreign investment to raise your institute. What did you do? What did you do with the first five-year-old? Who bought it, does it make "The First Five-year-old"? Look around you, Mrs Kalanovic, I guess yesterday's election results tell you that citizens see everything, citizens know everything. They don't like it when someone's lying to them so innocuously. To say it's hard here, to understand and to trust you, and here you are talking about some industrial, as you called it, fairs, parks, as if in the whole of Serbia you were getting up in the morning to go to work. No one's going to work. You can play this transfer at six o'clock in the morning, four o'clock, and two o'clock, and there's always someone to watch, because nobody's got a job. Every time he lays down, he'll get some sleep. You don't pay a peasant to go to the field. How many imputes does he have to invest, how many herbicides and pesticides, for what? For corn sold in sacks today, eight dinars a kilo. What kind of meat has been worth producing since you've been in power? What product is worth it to him? Since when do you run agriculture, what is worth to a peasant to produce? Since when do you run finance and the National Bank, where are our banks and insurance? Where are our companies since you've been running the privatisation? I'm talking about everything the people know, and what I can't prove yet, I'll tell you about it when I take over. You're in power now. You determine what one of us has done or what one of us is doing today. And I promise you, we'll determine what you're doing. We'll let all state authorities do their job freely and peacefully. We won't call anyone, protect anyone, put anyone in custody for a month, or six months, of your own free will. Just let them do it by the law. But what you did with Serbia, no one can forgive you anymore. You're sinking these Democrats, too. There's nothing sweeter than that. I don't like it any better than that. You blackmailed them not to go, accidentally, with the Serbian Progressive Party, because they will leave the government, because you will save Serbia if we do not go to the coalition. The rescue is for Serbia if you leave the government. To go to an extraordinary parliamentary election to measure strength, to get you and your junior junior junior in front of voters and say, "Here, that's the one who's been saving Serbia so far, do you know how many votes you're going to have?" You will settle into those who are invalid, you will fight them, as well as some other parties who have not understood what Serbia's future is. So please don't laugh at all, I'm not responding to your cynicism. I'm very worried about Serbia. If I were you, I couldn't be cynical. I'd be very serious, I'd be very worried and I'd think with my head. I'd think with my Serbian head. Excuse me. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic, is up for your parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22697	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22698	Today I experienced one MP telling me about order and the other one talking about cynicism. You mentioned, Mr. Nikolic, the word "unsuspecting." The without a doubt Democrats prevented you from going to Vozdovec and Zemun, although I wasn't talking about these elections, I was talking about someone else. My question is, when that's the case, why are you offering them so innocuously? On the other hand, I didn't want to talk politics today. I didn't want to talk today about the privatisations of the First Five-year-olds, even though we can talk about it. For 13 years, I worked in that factory, and a lot of people from the Five-year-old came to me to talk about her future and about the way out for the Five-year-old girl from the situation that was inherited the year we decided to end our relationship with everyone. We can also talk about some subsidies and agriculture, among other things. We can talk about different topics, because I'm 55 years old and I haven't forgotten the period behind me. I'm sorry that your followers and your party friends made me go into politics when I was 45, even though I never meant to. Today I wanted to talk about economic issues, about encouraging regional development, about Serbia as I see it, about Serbia that I've swept along and across and there's no reason for anyone to call me and ask where Zitiste is, and where is Trgovište. I know that well. You know that, too, because you've been questioning me about villages and cities, about some cases in Serbia. I know how well you live in Serbia, but don't throw everything under your feet, you who didn't perform with cynicism. Don't throw away 10 programs that many people live in Serbia today, ten programs, many of which today have a happier future. These are programmes that have been deeply implemented in the previous two years, where many small businesses are open, where many factories in undeveloped areas are open. Go through Serbia for a while, you've been very long in Zemun and Vozdovac. Go through and see that Serbia looks a little different than the last time you visited it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22699	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22700	Just for a little while, I have nothing to comment on this political tyrado. We're going through Serbia, and you and me, so as anyone goes, so be it in the election. I have nothing to say to you. I'm just concerned that you're accusing me of offering myself to the DS and that you think it's corrupt, rude, immoral, you who are with them together. Tell me, if they're so immoral, then no one's offering them anymore?- I'm sorry. You're the only one left with them. They seem to match you like that. You've never heard me offer myself to DS, it's one big lie and it looks like a G17 plus. I didn't offer myself to anyone. I took my life into my own hands eight months ago and today we are the strongest political party in Serbia. I have nothing to offer myself to. I'm calling to make something new, not offer myself to someone, or someone to me. That's what we're different about. This isn't love, it's not sales, it's normal political relations. Whoever wills, whoever wills, does not have to. I'm not offering. What can I offer you? 40% of the vote? Who? Even, the ones I call in co-operation, I don't call out how strong they are, I'm just saying -- let's free Serbia's G 17 Plus company, boost the DS. Do you know why you're losing the election? Because he's got you there, too. Maybe I couldn't run a party that would beat the DS if it wasn't for you with them. If they understand it, they understand. If they understand, we will have new elections, not the new rule of forwarders and Democrats, but new elections. If they don't understand, we'll have you on our necks. What do we do? We can just move on. We're going to fight as we've fought so far. You won't see me on the street. We are not going to gather citizens to burn Belgrade, as you have gladly done – the others burned Belgrade, killed, and you came to power, moved to the National Bank, to the source of the national money. How come none of you go to the car factory? How come they're not going to the Ironworks, to the Car Factory? How exactly does G17 plus go to banks and the National Bank? What does that look like? How come you didn't take the railroads, so the people wouldn't die on the roads? No, you went to the National Bank because you're brains. You know all the best, and then we got to sell the candy for one euro, the factory in vain; they bought people to the factory and supplies paid off the factory, or transferred the capital to another factory, and this one was still in debt, until the workers...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22701	Replication time's up. Thank you. To the title above Article 44, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22702	Article 44 speaks of measures to encourage regional development. He says it is determined by the government, on a proposal from the ministry, in line with the National Plan, regional strategies and funding programmes for regional development. This member denies what you claim to be the meaning of this law, but in order to remind us what the meaning of this law is, let's briefly go to Article 5, which says that you have divided Serbia into the Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the Western, the Central, the South and the KIM regions. You have an amendment to one representative of a parliamentary group, which is likely to vote in favour of this law in the day of the vote, and in the meantime, some interparty trade in the ruling coalition will happen. I will not speak on purpose of which parliamentary group it is, or any MP, because I have no intention of challenging replicas, but I want to talk seriously about the wrong proposal for this law. We had an amendment from that gentleman to delete the point in Article 5(2), after saying 'this member', and to add 'except for the AP and the city of Belgrade'. The second view of Article 5 says that the government, on a proposal from the statistical authority, determines the areas that make up the regions of the 1st member's position, which I have just read, and the proposal is to do so except for the AP and the city of Belgrade. Doesn't this, Mrs. Kalanovic, tell you that we're right when we claim what's actually hidden behind this bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22703	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22704	We just had a chance to hear from the government's representatives that the measures are programs, and incentives are resources. If the title above this article is'measures and incentives', then it means –programmes and resources. Article 44 – measures, that means programmes, so they wrote – Measures to encourage regional development. According to what the minister said, it would now read: "The Regional Development Funds Programmes". Absolute illiteracy, then illiteracy and corruption in the order of listing. Based on what? The National Plan always takes precedence over what the Minister is thinking, but you couldn't write it that way, because you're afraid of your boss G17 plus and the minister. Basically, it's as if you're building one of your governments, G17 plus, as you're making your diplomatic service, because you'll have economic advisers at every embassy in the Republic of Serbia. Do you see how pointless this is, as it was pointless to walk around Serbia and foreigners who bring money from abroad to make factories give money from budgets to hire workers? What the hell were you calling you from abroad? I wish they'd come with their money. We're not supposed to be helping these people from abroad, are mail, apparently, some poor woman who invests in us? That's all nakarad. But the handwriting is recognized, G17 plus, that the people would be like geese in the fog, so you could do whatever you want. So, measures to promote the meaning – programmes for regional development funds. Where the money is, there's a G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22705	To the title above Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, in Article 45, are provided for incentives, i.e. funds for the state for regional development, but in Article 45, we see that there are 12 points in total with precisely the purposes to which these funds will be allocated. I must warn the present minister that the provisions of a very important law on privatisation are not met. In Article 61. The law provides for 50% of the privatisation revenues collected to be allocated to the development and restructuring of businesses. You don't invest in development, you don't invest in restructuring. Can you give me just one example of successful restructuring? These funds you've allocated are out of the budget, but they're too small, they don't match that 50% privatisation. The other purposes you listed here are financed from the loans you take from abroad. It can't be done. The law forbids it. Many laws prohibit this kind of funding. We're going into debt slavery, and what you have to do and what you have to do, in accordance with the legal provisions, you don't do. I have to say, you're throwing money away. You could hear that from the representatives of the SRS last fall, when we talked about certain legal regulations, and these are the funds you gave to the privatisation...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22707	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Time's up. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22708	I proposed the amendment to delete Article 1 of the 45th, and point 1 speaks about how incentives are defined, so it says – for realisation, among other things, projects in the area of regional development from national, regional, regional and local interest in the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Kalanovic, you have remained in our debt since Friday, to answer the question – on what basis did the Bureau of Statistics do this, who gave him the criteria and who gave him the order to do these statistical, what do you call them, regions, and essentially real regions? When it comes to this article 45, then I would ask one question about what Gordana Pop-Lazic was already saying, and it refers to the Fair. Whose interest is it that 11 hectares of land are sold within the Fair? Is that an interest in regional, national, district, what level? What level was the interest in selling within the mouth, i.e. giving 5 acres of land, as well as giving it to the fair? Why am I bringing this up? So to ask you, do you in the government have anyone who has any understanding of property-legal relations and property-legal affairs? You distract citizens by saying that this land must go within the facilities, and you will not change regional plans before, to make special building plots, because you have no personal interest, any in the government, the city of Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22709	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear, dear, honourable MPs, I would have finished the thought from the previous presentation, when I spoke about the strategy of equal regional development, as it was carried out in Greece. Greece began implementing its flat regional development strategy on the moment it joined the EU, especially in the northwestern part of Greece, which was devastated and devastated. Namely, by implementing this strategy, they brought in a large number of investors, who invested in that part and that part of Greece is now not devastated at all. We expected this law to happen, and we from southern Serbia, for example. in the Jablani County. I remind you that Jablani County is the poorest district in southern Serbia. There are about 240,000 inhabitants, six municipalities, two are devastated by government criteria. We expected the Regional Development Act to bring something good to the Jablani County. I remind you that the citizens of Jablani County and how they voted in favour of this constitution have recognised in Article 94 this incentive of a balanced regional development of the state. In fact, the state is obliged, in Article 94, to develop every part of its territory evenly regionally, so we expected it from this government. You just commented with Mr. Velimir Ilic the situation in Leban and Major. I'll tell you that Mr. Velimir Ilic, while he was in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and how much he tarnished. Even current leaders of other parties, such as Zivojin Stefanovic from the SPS, admitted this. Velimir Ilic, who was in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, paved 100km in southern Serbia. I will remind you, Corridor 10, road M9, connecting Tulare with the Bulgarian border and many rural and regional roads. I'll keep thinking later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22711	On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22712	When it's a senseless law, then no wonder what's written in article 45. If the incentives were the means, then you planned to give the funds to improve the economic branches, technological levels, access to new technologies, promotion of research and development. As you wrote it, practically, in these associations, agencies dealing with regional development, you had to have a technological institute, a social science institute, an institute of historical sciences, for social activities, not to list in order, and probably something about art and culture. This is all about order written to work, like, there are a lot of members, there's something serious that's written. In fact, it's all unserious, because, as we've seen, development depends on where local elections are being called, whether DS carries phones on his back to give them to voters, or with packages, or whether it will succeed in recalibrating the tycoon in order to provide 'black funds' for the possible payment of the next election. Otherwise, Mrs. Kalanovic, I wouldn't dare to take such a size as Velimir Radivojević, the man who made "The First Five-year-old", so disdainful as you did. You remember when the Together coalition in Trieste won power, they weren't able for a year and a half, two years to secure steam heating in the city, and then, in 2000, you tried to protest the built bridge, so the man died after two years, you spent what that man left behind. Have a little respect for the people who are responsible for the development of the Triestenik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22713	On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22714	Article 45 concerns incentives, or funds, as you said, which are invested, in point 3 – in raising regional and regional competitiveness. Citing this point, you said that incentives can, among other things, be allocated to the realisation of development projects in the areas of development of companies, the development of local infrastructure and the development of human and institutional capacities. If I hadn't read it, even though I wasn't uneducated, this wouldn't have meant a lot to me, and here it's quite broadly said. If you've ever thought seriously about these incentives, the way you've imagined the law and explained it here, that is, to go from a level of the Republic to a lower level of everything that means improvement for these local communities, then you haven't done it in an adequate way. In general, the law has been so prepared that I have the impression that it will be difficult to apply, that people will spin around in circles, and they won't know who to turn to, what to do, what to do, what to bring, which way to go, because when everyone makes their own strategy, some of their plans, we won't get far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22715	On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic.. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a law on regional development, with the idea of erasing point 5. Point 5 refers to improving environmental protection, and this whole article refers to incentives. So far, we have often been able to hear from the government's representatives that Serbia's regionalisation opens the door to projects and EU funds that are reportedly improving infrastructure, agriculture, etc. In the case that I am about to present to you, it is shown that this EU generosity is looking and that Serbia is slowly turning into a major waste dump of European waste. According to the Environment Ministry project, it was decided, with the EU insistence, to build in the centre of Serbia, the central part of Serbia, near Cupre, a large facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste, which will treat 43,000 tonnes of hazardous waste annually, and among them liquid cyanide. What is worst, the project says -- EU allocation conditions for facilities are located in the central part of the Republic of Serbia. The EU wants to plant a time bomb in Serbia. It is the hand of Europe to Serbia. Based on this implementation plan of yours, you can build in one region a storage facility for dangerous radioactive waste, in another, a plant for treating medical waste, in the third – a plant for treating pharmaceutical waste, in the fourth region you can treat waste oils and propylene, in the fifth region – pesticides and packaging of pesticides...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22717	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22718	I asked the amendment to delete section 45 of point 6. Article 45. The bill speaks of what incentives are all about. Regarding this article and, accordingly, regarding the amendment I have tabled, certain logical questions are raised. Where'd you get the money for all these agencies? Where'd the money come from for all the incentives? Does the Serbian government know how Serbian citizens live? Does the Serbian government know that peasants live, how these few remaining workers live? Does he know how students, students, pensioners live? If all the money the minister found in Cyprus in time were transferred to these incentives, I would argue that would be insufficient for this purpose. There are no real sources. Privatisation is near the end, on this side you no longer have money. That's where you found the original way to wipe out wolves; you slaughtered sheep, you impoverished Serbian citizens. One Roma saying is: God loves the poor, but gives to the rich. They think it's their destiny, and I think you need to ask yourself if it's just their destiny. I prefer a Russian saying, which says – when the poor become a judge, the rich should leave the village. I'm afraid that time is slowly approaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22719	Thank you. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 45 provides that, as well as the entire bill, as well as the whole of Article 45, its 7th point is deleted. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the SRS has nothing to do with incentives for the development of companies and entrepreneurship and for improving conditions for increasing employment, or any other incentives. On the contrary, we have repeatedly insisted that this must be a priority when it comes to the distribution of money from the republican budget. I live in Jablanic County, where the unemployment rate is too high and, worse still, there is a continuing rise in unemployment. However, during April, this trend was interrupted, but the reason for this is to engage in temporary jobs, because the construction season has begun, and these people will again be on unemployment records after the completion of these temporary jobs. We have repeatedly pointed out that the country's incentives for the development of entrepreneurship, especially self-employment programmes, could be a way to solve its existence's growing number of people who are jobless. These days, while we are talking about regional development here, on the table of the mayor of Leskovec, who is usually from the DS, there will be lists with names and names of people who are employed in the city administration, public enterprises and public institutions who will be out of work. As soon as they came to power, members of the DS and G17 plus offered to carry out a pilot project at the impasse city administration, where people will be out of work at this time of the economic crisis. Now we have an unprecedented contradiction, we're talking extra employees at all levels, you're leaving one people out of work... (President: I would like to thank you, two minutes have passed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22721	On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through this amendment that I have submitted to Article 45, which I propose to delete point 8, which is to improve and develop human resources, I would like to tell Mr Tadic and his government to forget Serbia's division of regions, to love their Serbia a little bit. There's no need to seek to improve the development of human resources, because this government is perfectly educated, doing perfectly well what it should never think. Mrs. Kalanovic, you said how open companies are through the start-ap loan project. You said it was 1607, but you don't say that about 60,000 companies are on lockdown every day. You're talking about industrial zones in Capco, Loznica. You don't say how busy it is and what happens next in that situation. You've had excellent and excellent staff, so I don't think there's a need for special schooling, not to spend the resources of Serbian citizens. Why didn't you send them to “Viscoz” in Loznica and not deploy them at “Nikola Tesla” Airport, Serbia’s State lottery and other institutions where the money itself comes from? The main goal, if we forget Serbia's division into regions, and you want this law to exist, is that the money distribution system is being controlled, not to be scattered in the way you want it to. You still said you went to Serbia. If you visited it, you had to see Serbian citizens living in it and you would have to take much more care of them, not of how this country should be torn apart, while bringing Serbian citizens to a beggar stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22723	Thank you. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22724	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45, which provides for the erasure of point 10, which is the work relating to incentives, more specifically, to the promotion of inter-municipal, inter-regional, cross-border and international co-operation in matters of common interest. And this amendment is a logical trail, or a continuation of overall thinking, i.e. the position of the SRS on the proposed law on regional development, and since this assembly debate is slowly entering its finality, it is clear that, with all the arguments that we have made, this law is written with one single intention – to extract some kind of funding from the EU Regional Development Funds, in order for Serbia to appear as a regionalised state, with a tendency to mitigate regional differences. None of these conditions are satisfied with what is offered in the given document. There's no region there, so it's impossible to call what's offered regionalization. No regional competence is indicated, as all entities engaged in the implementation of what has been established by the competent ministry and the central national regional development agency are all carried out. It would be better to withdraw such a law from the procedure, because the centre will stay long enough to forget about the problem of unregionalised Serbia, and the funds it receives from the Regional Development Fund, in line with everything the law contains, will not be able to target undeveloped areas, but rather, just as with the NIP, will be free to force priorities that will prove to have nothing to do with equal regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22725	Thank you. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22726	My colleagues and I are trying to find the best solution to the amendments for this law, by asking in an explanation that all these members are deleted, because the amendment refers to incentive, i.e. the improvement of all development capacities, point 11, at regional level, at the level of the area and local level. I see here a concrete opportunity to encourage and open another institution, we can call it an agency or a regional strategy office. Then we'll have a regional strategy, an office for that, a regional council, a regional development agency, a regional district association, etc. We'll have jurisdiction that overlaps, we'll have more obligations that everyone has. I don't know what else you can invent in terms of opening up another job, which other incentives can have local environments where the minister's party, the legislator of this law, is in power. We know that from IPA aid, which is united in five components, we cannot use all five, but only two – help transition and build institutions and cross-border co-operation. Let's lose a little financial dependence on Europe and on IPA funds and go on our own, with available money from the budget of local self-government, let's say, from credit, from the funding of the National Investment Plan, and even from the IPA Fund, to implement the key national and local priorities identified in the local development strategies so far. So we don't need financial dependence to be able to do what, in the nature of things, in the 21st century, was, more specifically, needed to be done by now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22727	On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 46, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22728	I hope, Mrs Kalanovic, that we will finally convince you to withdraw this law; there are 40 amendments left, and we will make every effort to withdraw this law because it is bad, harmful and because it is dangerous for the territorial integrity of the Serbian state. Believe me, and I pray God I'm not right, in a few years this law will be spoken of as we are now talking about the 1974 Constitution. This law is not only bad because of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, but also because of Vojvodina and all of these, as you have called them, statistical regions, which in the near future will be real regions, with all those rights, obligations and consequences that will be the ultimate outcome, which will be Belgrade's pasture. Don't think we're exaggerating. You're doing this, I'm not thinking about you personally again, I'm thinking about the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state, fully conscious. You say publicly to the citizens – we will never recognise Kosovo and we are convinced that no Serbian politician will ever say – yes, we recognise Kosovo. But you are therefore concluding the CEFTA Agreement, the SOFA Agreement, the Agreement on Co-operation and Association, and they all contain Kosovo, this false state of Kosovo, as a special legal entity. Of course, after all, you will bring and bring this law on regional development. So, you indirectly admit to what you say you'll never admit directly and it's absolutely certain that you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22729	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22730	I'm absolutely certain that in two minutes I can't achieve that success to convince the promoter how bad this bill is, because, behold, I haven't been able to convince them in nine years, but I think I'm going to convince some of them to realize that Mladjan Dinkic is actually the Prime Minister. Through this regional development, it forms its own government, and within the framework of development, everything, except for some of the pressures that the state has towards individuals; everything else is development and everything else is under the control of Mladjan Dinkic. It controls banks, controls the National Bank of Serbia, insurance companies, controls investment funds, controls the stock exchanges, where money, controls everything, all cash flows are in the hands of G17 plus. Also, I won't be able to convince the DS that he's a minority partner, in fact, minority by power. What I have to say is that this year reminds me of 2003. The same situation was in 2003, with Mladjan Dinkic tearing you down at the time, and you know how you went, and you only went because you're dealing with political persecution, which is what it means to fulfill other people's interests, and here, Mladjan Dinkic set you up, using some terms, tying you to the EU. It's another one in a series of unsuccessful attempts, the media will probably be followed as some expectation, like some hope, like some illusion. Everything G17 plus did, it's an illusion. As dangerous as this illusion can be, imagine Miloljub Albianic, he is in charge of the books from which our children should be taught. Is there more confusion for this Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22731	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. On Article 46, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22732	This article in 46 shows how inconsistencies you are, how bad you can write laws and how lame this is. You say who the users of incentives are, so you say they're local self-government units, so, watch this, regional agencies and district associations. For a reminder, the district associations are business societies, that's what you wrote. That they are some users of incentives, given who founded them, mainly, these companies, because it is mainly state-owned, i.e. The local self-government, I can understand that for a little while, but to be users of the incentives of the regional agency, your party exposition, that no one can understand. You're inconsistencies with that. In one place, it's called a regional development agency in law, and here it's just regional agencies. Or is it some new institute you're bringing in here, so no one knows what it's about? Read what you wrote. When it comes to the district level, the district agencies, the way you applied this member of the law to them, is in full compliance with the entire nomenclature of the institution mentioned in this law. Isn't it enough to encourage local self-government and business societies as such? Why would you even call them Association Areas? What's the point? Even when it comes to associations, we do not deny the need for the existence of companies that will do business for regional development, or associations that would do so, but you invent categories and concepts to agree on a complicated structure that serves only you, only you, one political party, to wave around here in Serbia and that you can do wonders that the DS allows you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22733	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is not against regional development and helping those regions that need it, but it is against the law on regional law, especially against such a law on regional development, because we believe that it will not contribute and fulfill the purpose that you may have, perhaps, wanted. I'm not saying that you had a bad intention, you might have had a good intention, but it will prove in practice that those who expect a better one will not get that improvement. The proof of this is my amendment, because in Article 46, Article 1, point 2, you say that the user of incentives is an economic operator, which is fine, as well as funds at regional, district and local level. You should explain to us what funds they are. It's absolutely unacceptable for us, and we don't think they should be users of those funds if there are any. In such a poor country, at a historic moment, instead of going to one unitary state, where we would strengthen the already existing structure of local self-government and the district, we are going towards further decommissioning of the country. This is not only our conclusion, based on what we read in the bill, but based on the statements we heard from Minister Markovic, who made it clear to us that after this, since the law is clearly not in accordance with the Constitution, because he says, we can expect a change in the Constitution, in order to introduce this into some legal frameworks, as well as statements made by Boris Tadic a few days ago. Therefore, responsibility for this is, above all, on the DS, the Serbian government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22735	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22736	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46. The proposal for a law on regional development, by deleting in point 4. Article 46 states who are the users of incentives, and point 4 says that institutions in the field of education and research are also involved. The government of the Republic of Serbia has acted as if it had no strategy for undeveloped areas so far, and now suddenly, when these so-called areas appear. Regional strategies and funding programmes for the region, all reportedly will be resolved. Who can believe that now? When will some of the first results be seen that certain regions, as you have called them, are equating to economic development, say, the South region with the Vojvodina Region? I can imagine what the next budget of the Republic of Serbia will look like, where funds will have to be allocated to encourage users in regions, as mentioned in Article 46. Does this mean that so far the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not encouraged the economic development of undeveloped municipalities and has not invested in the opening of new schools, factories or agricultural production? If so, then where are the results? If they're not here, who can guarantee us that this time, what you want to do with this law will be successful and effective? Do you imagine stimulating measures in light, say, ski resorts on the Old Mountain? If that's how you imagine the economic unification of the region, that through your party colleagues, you realize what you're imagining, then it's going to be worse than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22737	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22738	I asked to delete point 5 in Article 46(1). Point 5, whose erasure is required, says that associations are also users of incentives. They say one of them lives out of ten fingers and one of millions of hands. You're the other ones. The government is the other one. For nine years, the Serbian government, in various compositions, has been implementing the fact that politics is, in fact, a skill to take money from the rich, and from poor voices, under the pretext of protecting one another. Every time you get the power and the money, you finance everything and everything, with the mandatory satisfaction of the appetite of your party comrades, and especially the tycoon that helped you to come to power. You finance, among other things, many associations, as you predict at point 5 of this bill. Many of these associations are working directly against the Serbian state, many are working directly against Serbian national interests. On the other hand, Serbian citizens are forced to keep their belts tight. You've been doing this for a long time, and you don't need to forget that when you're forcing someone too tight on their belt, they can give him a break. You should take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22739	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 46. The proposal for a Regional Development Act concerns users of incentives. As the other amendments to the SRS People's MPs have suggested that everything provided for in Article 46 be deleted, so my amendment also applies to the erasure of item 6) of Article 1(1). I'm not going to repeat why we disagree with this bill, we've repeated it several times. This law is not passed to make Serbian citizens better. There is no improvement in Serbia with such power. Now I'm going back to a 2006 event, or else it happened in Leskovac. During a pre-election campaign for the 2006 local elections, support for the joint DS candidate and G17 plus for the president, then, the municipality of Leskovac also came to give a visit to Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The sea of promises fell on that occasion. Among other things, Minister Dinkic personally handed a check to 14m dinars to adapt the roof of the National Theatre building in Leskovac. At the time, the minister said it was only the beginning and that the new democratically-oriented local authorities would focus a significant part of Leskovec's budget on the National Theatre programmes. It was in the second half of 2006, I think it was October, and here we are in mid-2009. They're almost three years old. To this day, there was no realization of this solemnly served check. Citizens of Leskovci, as well as many other promises from DS representatives, G17 plus, are waiting, but they can't wait. They wonder if it's that pre-election concern about the progress of culture in Leskovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22741	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, today I am on behalf of the SRS, I think I have asked two questions that I have not received the answer to, and since we are slowly bringing the discussion to an end, I will repeat them. Mrs Kalanovic, you mentioned 2000 in your presentation and what you found. For us, it would be much more useful, I believe that everyone in this room would be more calm if they could see what we're going to find after you in Serbia except division, debt and region. My question was very simple – why is Kosovo not a subject of regional development, i.e. KIM? You didn't tell us that. When it comes to this article 46, it defines who the users of the incentives are. Experiences with the G17 plus, with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, in general, with incentives, are not very pleasant. I'll talk about it later. I'll come up with one question I also asked this morning. In paragraph 2, you predicted that users of incentives, as well as the way in which incentives are assigned, are more closely determined by development documents. My second question, who knows which time is repeated – what is the deadline for drawing up development documents? How long, because of the indeterminateness in this law and the inability to produce them adequately, will we wait for incentive funds, which those who are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, what are those who should come, as you say, from EU funds, who are just waiting for this law to be adopted and set off to arrive in Serbia? This is once again proof that this is exclusively political law, not a law that is in the function of the economic even development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22743	On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22744	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have, first of all, one suggestion for you, Mr. Chairman. You don't do your job right today; probably in order to win time, you don't say all the sentences. The practice, when discussing amendments is being held, is to say that this and that amendment has been submitted by both the MP and that and you are obliged to inform the National Assembly of the position of the Committee of Representatives and the position of the Government. No, you've been talking all day. The amendment has been submitted by MP Petar Petrovic, who answers the word. So, you are required to make known to the National Assembly what the opinion on the tabled amendment to the Committee of Resolution and what the Government's opinion is. It's a practice that exists for many years in the National Assembly and I don't know what you don't respect today. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is quite clear, here, all day long today, the minister refuses to answer our question – who seems to be consciously pushing KIM out of the Republic of Serbia. You obviously don't do that by accident. It is very likely that either this one, or some future concentration, or some other government will recognise both the formal and the actual independence of KIM. You are therefore likely to find it uncomfortable to include the term KIM in the draft law, i.e. that you plan development projects and development programs on AP KIM territory as well. Otherwise, if you as a government really cared about regional development and some social policy, then this government would sell various villas, residences, resorts, which it owns...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22745	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Time's up. To the title above Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22746	The title above this article reads: "Controlling and estimating measures and incentives". And in three terms, only one word, or a few words, is enough – Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Minister Mladjan Dinkic – 1st member, Minister Mladjan Dinkic – 2. a member, and so on, until the end of this bill. He's the head of the most important organ. It establishes programs, plans, approve funds, monitors, controls. He's, man, irreplaceable, good "nona" for everyone, he's everywhere. The other day, he was down there, where Rijeka, Pula, was nagging at the guitar. He's been jerking off all over Serbia. All of this was made possible by Boris Tadic, or by foreign sponsors. Now we are about the most pointless regulation that exists for three days we are losing here by beating up empty straw, trying to convince someone what the sparrows in this country know, and the sparrows in this country know that Mladjan Dinkic is doing thoroughly. It is that he has a weak coalition capacity, but he's got financials and he's shaking this country, and anyone who gets in a car with him would be very happy to give two banks to get out of that car. Now we need to cooperate in a kind of way, by allegedly seriously criticizing something that someone has endured from the most vile intentions, by spreading one illusion, the simplest illusion, the most corrupt illusion, in which they should be naive to believe. We can't be naive, because of function, and because of age, and because of the neighborhood, and because of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22747	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22748	I'll ask you another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22749	On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22750	Article 47 refers to the supervision and evaluation of the implementation of measures and incentives and foresees implementation by the Ministry. We don't mind – Article 48 says funding for regional development is done, among other things, under point 1), from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We ask you – how will we, and the parliamentary majority probably vote, ever find out how money is being spent and what are the results of this regional development, at least in numbers, when the final bill and the budget implementation report have not been received for five years? I think it's become a practice and we won't get it in the future. So please tell the Prime Minister that we are here on behalf of citizens not only to pass laws, we do not only have that role, but also to check the government, and we can only check it if it delivers a document to which it is, after all, bound by the Constitution. This is what we expect from you, with full mistrust for the government who is willing to accept any blackmail and any request from the West and the EU, while all other countries in the environment do not have such ultimatums. We have already set an example for you of the Federation of BiH, which is required to become unitary, and we are asked to get new pastures and subasa, as we have, in Kragujevac Verka, who no longer calls his coalition the 'Coalition for Kragujevac', but the 'Coalition for Šumadija'. Well, now you see what's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22751	On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. Proposal for a law on regional development, with a proposal to delete Article 3 in this Article. In particular, Article 47 refers to monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of measures and incentives. Paragraph 3 reads: "The methodology of the First Article's position is brought by the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry." So, the methodology for evaluation of measures and incentives for regional development is being developed by Dinkic's ministry, which will also be set up by the director at the National Agency for Regional Development, as well as by the directors of regional agencies. To repeat what it says in the law, and for the sake of the public, Mladjan Dinkic also predicted for himself the position of National Council President. What should we conclude from this? The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will control it, it's a little funny, just itself. They shared all functions with each other within their own party, I am talking about frontal functions, and the law gives them the opportunity to build for themselves a methodology of evaluating the measures of incentive development and that, with additional means to realise projects to improve the standards of citizens in certain regions, they continue to do something similar again, I mentioned today, as with ski resorts on the Old Mountain. This situation, when Mladjan Dinkic puts himself as president of the National Council, when, for himself and his party staff, they build a methodology, can be defined with one sentence, known from the part of Duško Kovacevic – I leave everything to myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22753	On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22754	On behalf of the Progress Group, Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47(3) concerning the definition of deadlines for the adoption of a methodology for monitoring and estimating the implementation of the measures and incentives brought by the government. The government has set a six-month deadline for the adoption of all the rules necessary for the implementation of the law, which is an inappropriately long deadline, and I propose that the deadline for the adoption of this methodology be no longer than 90 days. The SNS believes that the adoption of this law will achieve nothing, at least when it comes to balanced regional development, while, on the other hand, the establishment of regional agencies will significantly increase the number of budget beneficiaries. Serbian advances also advocate balanced regional development, but not in this way. We believe that the balanced regional development and decentralisation of Serbia are a condition for its progress, and that measures should be taken urgently to develop the village, to prevent the migration of the population from smaller areas to Belgrade and other major cities. In doing so, I stress - decentralisation does not mean giving any territorial autonomy, but only broad rights and authority to local self-government. Since I'm limited in time, I'm going to end the exposure to the words of Abraham Lincoln: "All people can lie for a while and some people all the time, but not all people can go crazy all the time." Serbian citizens have found that they have been deceived and will not again show you confidence, as the result of yesterday's elections on Vozdovac showed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22755	On Chapter VII, above Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22756	I think everyone had to submit an amendment to this article and what was written. It is said to – funding regional development, which means – Mladjan Dinkic will have control over the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the budget of the Autonomous Region, the budget of the city of Belgrade, the budget of the units of local self-government, and imagine – this is close to him, and it is spreading to the EU pre-accession funds, and the EU has suffered, the non-refundable development aid of the international community and other programmes of the European community, development credits, donations, contributions and gifts from legal and natural persons and other sources. So, where's the money, there's Junior. It's a message. That's why it's proposed a law like this, to see how much DS can take. Just to remind you, when he was Minister of Finance, he grabbed everything for the Ministry of Finance; when he got this for economics and regional development, he put everything there. Here, you see, it is tight for Serbia, also for EU funds. He had to make something up. You'll have to put up with him. What can I do for you, it is your choice, but it is not the choice of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you see Mladjan Dinkic with a guitar or no guitar, let him know that he lost that dispute in court, that he sued me for slander, and that he's obliged to pay me the costs of court proceedings. Remind him to move away from these media, first of all, newspapers, not to shut down these media, by sending a variety of controls and pressing charges, because today it's clear to everyone – whatever is written about Mladjan Dinkic in the paper, can't be wrong. I guess everybody figured that out, except for DS and the joint boss. Now, because of this joint boss, what we're surviving in Serbia is permanent and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22757	Thank you. I'm only asking you to talk about the subject that's on the agenda. On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22758	Mrs Kalanovic, I ask you to bear in mind that all criticism that came from the SRS MP group, related to this law, criticism over concerns about the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, not because of petty political points, such as some other political parties tried to bring the debate into the process today. So, we believe that you have indeed caved in to EU demands, that you have been seduced by good for our country. Maybe on other occasions, if we were a rich country, if we were Germany, that wouldn't be a problem. In Germany, first, only Germans, secondly, GDP is much, much bigger than ours; they can care for even regional development in this way. We're so poor and I look at the state as one family, so if we have something, we have to collect it into one pile, and we have a very careful team to dispose of and deploy, that all the possibilities for corruption and crime, if possible, are still rooted. This law will not allow you, on the contrary, to give you an opportunity, and control is weak, some to take advantage of all these opportunities that you give them to do damage, first, general damage, and second, to take advantage of themselves. It's something that's not by this law until the end, and that's why we're very concerned about the solutions you've proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22759	On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48. Proposal for a law on regional development, with point 3 being deleted in this article. Article 48 refers to sources of funding for regional development, including Serbia's budgets, autonomous province, the city of Belgrade, local self-government budgets, EU funds, international community grants, etc. This law is so well-conceived that all these huge funds are channelled in the way the economy and regional development minister imagines, which is Mladjan Dinkic. Then, according to the president of the National Council for Regional Development, which is Mladjan Dinkic. Then, as implemented by the National Agency for Regional Development, which will be led by someone from G17 plus, or someone appointed by Mladjan Dinkic, whose evaluation of the implementation of the measures and incentives will be carried out on the basis of a methodology designed, listen well, Mladjan Dinkic, i.e. his Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Well, that's what this expert food chain looks like. It is precisely because of this elaborate system of availability by the vast resources of citizens, which should be directed towards regional development, but it is now clear that there will be no benefit, except for political damage to the state of Serbia. As far as this law is concerned, it is now clear why you withdrew the statistical law at the end of May, precisely because of this law, which will be official for statistical regions. It is obvious that this law has come by speedy procedure, by order of someone who is obviously in a hurry to start the process of breaking Serbia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22761	The amendment to Article 48 was submitted by Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22762	I asked for Article 48(4) to be deleted. Point 4 of this article states that funding for regional development is being made from the budget of units of local self-government. There's a new Fae-instinct. In conditions where units of local self-government barely put an end to the end, and when transfers returning from Belgrade are significantly reduced, they will still have to finance some of the nakaradic projects. With this law, you will create an even bigger gap between the rich and the poor. Unfortunately, the rich and the poor are not equal even in death. They're only equal after death. A lot of budget users' money will go to finance a new massive administration, and our agriculture is failing. The money was supposed to be invested in agriculture. You think of agriculture as our comparative advantage only before the election. As we all know, the most lies lie before the elections, then, during the war and after the hunt. You need to know one more thing, unlike science doctors, peasants have a lot more knowledge than school supplies. That's where you're supposed to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22763	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not proposed eradicating this member because we believe that funding balanced regional development is not necessary, but because those who have so far been in charge of regional development will have the same money. The experiences Serbia has had so far, with regard to investment, i.e. investment in various projects of sub-regional and regional character that should support balanced regional development, were not very positive. There's a lot of examples for that. The place I live and come from, there's plenty of examples. I'll only mention two. First, for example, projects in Leskovac are, through various associations that will become district associations with this law, funded solely because of the private or political proclivities of G17 plus towards them. The centre in Leskovac was an exposition of the political party G17 plus and easily exercised the rights to funds and received applications. On the other hand, southern Serbia, Vranje, has one painful experience with a balanced regional development conducted by the G17 plus, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because in this failed project, it is "Zamber" in Vranja, a representative of the DS, Mr Dragan Gilas, and has been soundly announcing it. Our reserve in relation to your funding under this law, or what this law provides, is indeed justified. We believe that even in the future, after the adoption of this law, you will behave unprincipledly. Mrs Kalanovic, my question for you is again – why is KiM not a subject of regional development if you have predicted in this article that funding will also go from the budget of autonomous provinces?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22765	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22766	Gentlemen, if this government really cared about equal regional development and social justice, then, as I said in the previous presentation, this government would sell numerous resorts, villas, residences, etc. and some of these funds invested, for example, in agriculture, or in solving some accumulated social problems. However, you act quite the opposite of that. Recently, the Executive Greater Vojvodina reconstructed, or renovated some kind of centre for the economic and technological development of Vojvodina in Fruška Gora. It's a hotel that has 50 luxury apartments and a few halls. The reconstruction cost about 270 million dinars, although the works lasted twice as long as planned, although the final price was multiplely higher than the one originally planned. Of course, and here all the papers are done without any tender, which is, by the way, a practice back a few years in Vojvodina, so we can conclude that the Public Procurement Act is binding only south of Sava and Danube on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. DS and G17 plus do whatever they want, of course, without any tender. In this year's big affair, the province administration has been in the process of renovating the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It is interesting, however, that just the G17 Plus MPs accused their coalition partners from the Democratic Party of spending 118 million dinars in this business, although the costs shown were 10 times lower, so that the head of the SRS parliamentary group in the Vojvodina Assembly, Milorad Mircic, was quite well noticed that the reconstruction of the AP Vojvodina Hall was the largest investment this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22767	On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22768	Article 50(2), which I asked for to be deleted with my amendment, says that the financing of projects will be closer to the specific contracts. By adopting the proposed law on local and regional development, there will be an even greater distinction between Serbian citizens. By adopting this law, more borrowing will take place with unfavourable foreign loans, until the state reaches bankruptcy at one point. On the subject of excessive borrowing, a Greek philosopher said in his own time: "We are forgotten by all, by relatives, by friends, by lovers, by even by enemies, only by trustees. So try to make as many debts as possible to keep living in the memories of others." As you owe this land, you will live for a long time in the memories of many, in the memories of those whom you have destitute and put away for all these years. But I believe that in the end, they are happier to eat, and they have nothing but those who have and cannot. The best thing to do is to withdraw this bill from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22769	On the head above Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment applies to Article 51, more specifically, to the Head above Article 51. It was submitted with the intention to delete any transitional and final provisions relating to this law. Once again, I will point out to the SRS' position that we disagree with this bill, that we believe that, and if it is brought forward, and probably will, because most of the 126 can be anything, inapplicable, that the basic and biggest problem is that it is essentially destructive and that is the basis for Serbia's political secession, for destroying our national identity. The SRS expresses a reasonable doubt that this law can contribute to the reduction of regional and intra-regional inequalities in the degree of socio-economic development and living conditions, and that such a law will affect the reduction of negative demographic movements. A very important item in this bill is the government's position towards KIM. Among the subjects of regional development is the AP Vojvodina, but not AP KIM. If someone claims that this bill is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, how is it possible for autonomous provinces to be defined as two regions in Article 5 and that the entity of regionalisation is only one autonomous province – Vojvodina, in Article 19? Overcoming AP KiM with this law is another argument that the law does not show good intentions to the promoter, but is its main intention to further politically destabilise Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22771	Thank you. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22772	Article 51(1) says the Act establishing the National Agency will be adopted by the Government within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. He says a nice Russian saying, "Build a pool and frogs will appear themselves." Here it means: bring such a law and you will have a legal basis for the further breaking of Serbia, you will have a legal basis for an even greater administration, as well as a legal basis for new responsibilities. The National Agency, as a legal follower of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship, will then, regional development agencies, as well as regional development councils, in fact, only services of one or two parties will be services for the management of party personnel, cash flow control services to end-users. However, this law does not yet indicate who will be in charge of staffing with these agencies, but I guess it will also be seen in time. However, as one fine Latin proverb says, that even after a bad harvest should be sown, it means in translation here – it will live this people after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22773	On Article 51, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 51. The proposal for a law on regional development, with a proposal to delete position 2 and Article 2 of this article, reads - The National Agency is a legal follower of the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship. This agency, which now, in some ways, only changes its name, and so far has been meant to deal with development projects, precisely in order to achieve a balanced regional development. We should know, as MPs, the public in Serbia, how much has worked in all of this, how much money has gone to entrepreneurs, say, in southern Serbia, in the Timoko province, or in the cave, in all those areas where there is a situation, it would say, quite difficult, in particular to which persons, by name and last name, to see if there were any standard principles for the granting of incentive loans or if only a party book was sufficient. These funds belong to the citizens of Serbia and Serbia should be used for the benefit of these citizens, instead of perhaps working quite the opposite – to meet the party's goals. This law is noose around Serbia's neck. This is a project that cannot be revived. The responsibility before future generations will be borne by those who, with their voice, allow this law to be passed, starting the process of breaking the Republic of Serbia. The SRS will remain consistent with its principles and will vote against this law, to which, above all, we are bound by patriotism and the Constitution of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22775	On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22776	Mrs Kalanovic, I think you understand the direction in which the SRS MPs were being discussed and you could not see hypocrisy, but only concern and our political attitude towards this law, which, in our opinion, is finally broken Serbia. What's breaking Serbia? On several occasions, even many times in these few days, we have said this and it is a disregard for Resolution 1244, as well as for the Serbian Constitution, not only for this law, but, above all, for the Statute of Vojvodina, which in most of its provisions is anti-constitutional and secessionist, and Boris Tadic announces that this statute will be confirmed very quickly in Parliament. For us, breaking Serbia and breaking state-run parties is always above the party's interest, which is why all the arguments that we have made here are, above all, due to the state's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22777	On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22778	These citizens of mine from Novi Sad are unable to learn to accentuate my last name – Tabaković. Article 51 defines the termination of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and the start of the work of the National Agency. But it's not just changing the plate at the door and pointing out a new firm. I have submitted the amendment with the following text – that, at the end of the provisions that define the closure of one, and the beginning of the work of another, when the conditions are obtained, this should be complemented by the view that the submissions and the list, which will be made up in accordance with Article 3, will be an integral part of the 2009 final budget account. I knew you wouldn't give up your intention to set up the National Regional Development Agency, but I wanted to remind this government not to provide us with final accounts in which we can see balance sheet, asset balance, asset management, money, debt balance and all that. I, like all citizens, am concerned by the particular ease of relocate jurisdiction, the ease of choosing people from one agency, the authorities of the administration or the ministry, you're moving them somewhere else; by which criteria do you take them over to some new ministries? That's what you did with the government's constitution, by joining two ministries and taking over part of jurisdiction. I think it's really meaningful and appropriate to make a provision like this, because the request to deliver the final bill isn't pointless. The deficit of 13 billion dinars in 2007 was the surplus of Mr Dinkic, which means - he is weak to believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22779	On Article 52, amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Lidija Dimitrijevic, as well as, together, MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22780	Given that I have submitted an amendment to the previous article and proposed to delete all transitional and final provisions, it is logical to delete Article 52. This article states that it is allowed until the establishment of regional agencies to carry out tasks by the National Agency. I can only repeat the position of the SRS Parliament Club that we are against the establishment of all these agencies, councils, associations. We feel that the bill of this law has gone too far. As a measure of saving due to the global economic crisis, the government predicted a reduction in public spending, and as part of this, the termination of new employment in the state administration. We are witnessing that, on the one hand, in local self-government staff are getting fired, that too many employees are constantly talking about, and, on the other hand, new services are being created and new staff are being hired. As DS does, I'll try to explain the case in Leskovac. Coming to power in March, the new mayor immediately offered a pilot project of rationalisation in the city administration, and, on the other hand, the directors of the Leskovac Cultural Centre and the House of Culture in Brestovac appointed people with completed high school. He also hired most of his school associates to attend high school. I'm guessing that finishing high school has gained a lot of expertise, and other people with a college degree and a higher school are worried about whether they're going to be on the hit list, because today when you leave a man out of a job, it's like you killed him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22781	On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22782	With this amendment, which I have submitted before the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have proposed that Article 53 be deleted. Proposal for a law on regional development. A correspondence with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia looks like this – the government proposes to the National Assembly to reject amendments to the MPs, so it is under no. 362. my amendment to Article 53. The draft law, which reads - Article 53 is deleted, etc. I am putting an end to this amendment, not because I believe that my amendment should not be accepted, on the contrary. A short time ago, I read in a daily newspaper an article saying that Serbian Economy and Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic played at a concert by a Serbian group in Rijeka, Croatia. The minister played guitar at the concert for 120 minutes. I don't want the minister, who's not with us today in the National Assembly, to be bothered by this amendment of mine, so that by the day of the vote, he's thinking about whether he might accept the amendment. Still, amendments are a serious matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22783	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and, together, MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22784	The amendment to the last member of this bill, Article 56, was proposed to delete this last member as well. Since such a written law is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS thinks it should never enter into force, nor should it be announced the next day in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" or at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-15-0.u22785	Thank you. On Article 56, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing representatives, Mr Verica Kalanovic, the NIP minister, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you very much. Good night. Bon appétit. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
