ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28420	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. Before we begin the session just to let you know that the cards you put in the electronic units will show no identification on the display you have in front of you, but you will be registered in the electronic system, which you can see on the monitor on the wall. An error occurred due to the connection of the electronic system in the small and in this room during yesterday for transmission and translation. The electronic system, therefore, works, just don't pay attention to the fact that the display on your electronic unit doesn't normally say'microphone'. If you answer the word, that part of the system also works normally, so it flashes the signal lights and you get the most normal word. This deficit will be removed as soon as possible and does not pose an obstacle to our work. So, I ask the MPs to put their identification cards in the electronic voting system units to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall and we have the quorum needed to work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the sittings, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, to attend: 8th item of the agenda - Gradimir Nenadovic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law; Darko Radojić, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretary for Law; 9th point of the agenda - prim. Dr. Predrag Tojic and Miodrag Jaksic, state secretaries at the Ministry of Diaspora; Aleksandra Kotic, secretary of the Ministry of Diaspora; Djordje Prstojevic and Vukman Krivokuća, assistant minister of diaspora. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia (individuals) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Muljić; Mirko Munjic, Aleksandar Martinović, Saša Dujvić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Slatjan Mijavić, Vjera Radarjan Mira Mira Mira Mirić, Mira Mira Mira Mirić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, I will use one piece of my time as an authorised representative under this amendment. She submitted 17 amendments to the SRS mark-up law. At first, I can say that one part of these amendments is more legal and the other is essential. Some of these amendments also envisioned new solutions, which were not envisaged by the proposal for a law on distinctions, which we received. The government has accepted one of our amendments. I can say that there have been other good amendments that, I'm sure, should have been accepted. There were amendments and some other MPs and parliamentary groups that the government was supposed to accept and not. It is interesting, after all these arguments of the government that we have received regarding our amendments, one thing that can be seen as a common denominator in all of this, which is that everything in the proposed amendments carries the prefix "Serbian" or "Serbian" or has the sound of a national, the government did not want or should not accept. I say, in a tending sense, that it should not be because it can be said that in many, almost all areas, in all the legislative proposals that come to the Assembly by the Government, there is a certain impact, I can say freely, with regard to the harmonisation of these legislative proposals with the legislation and regulations of the European Union. It is ignored, therefore, that everything that is national, everything that carries in it a prefix of national, Serbian, so that the government probably does not accept the amendments submitted by the opposition for these reasons. Everything that is national is ignored and has for the subject of fostering, strengthening and preserving Serbian spirituality and culture, Serbian traditions, Serbian heritage and history. We didn't have too many illusions that you would accept a lot of the amendments that we have submitted, just knowing this attitude of yours regarding ignoring and ignoring everything that carries within you the sound of national or Serbian. We also knew before this government responded, as regards the amendments that we have submitted, that some may care for all that is German, English, French, Dutch, European than what is minor, non-Governmental, so-called Serbian. However, as regards the amendment to Article 3. The bill, which we asked for honours, along with others, to be awarded to church dignitaries in certain cases, those who were particularly responsible for the care, preservation and strengthening of Serbian spirituality, Serbian culture, Serbian heritage and Serbian history, we felt that the government simply should not have ignored such an amendment, gone over it and not accepted it. We've given a special consideration here. If the SPC can assign the highest church honors to worthy citizens and statesmen, then why would the state of Serbia be under the honor of assigning a special medal to church dignitaries for the outstanding merits they have in strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture? In the principle debate, we have, in some ways, appealed to our consciousness and conscience that this distinction is awarded rarely, exceptionally, in order to highlight its importance and importance. We also felt that this would satisfy the principle of reciprocity. If statesmen can receive the highest church honor, for example the Order of the Holy Sava, why could one medal not be intended for the highest church dignitaries? We further pointed out that the person who would be worth wearing such a medal at this time would be our living saint, the patriarch, Mr. Paule. It was also our proposal for the first honorary bearer of this new distinction. But you absolutely didn't look back on it. In his passion and haughtiness for all that comes from the opposition, as well as in his humility to all that comes from the EU, in your mind as if there is no place for an earthly one, let alone some heavenly justice. However, in this heavenly justice they believe only by believing those with a sense of morality. With this gesture, you prove that Bernard Shaw was 100% right when, in one place, he said, "It's not true that the government is ruining people. The truth is that the already corrupt, if they reach the authorities, destroy power." But you should always bear in mind that, taking responsibility for everything that makes the vital interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens, you are responsible for both what you do and for what you do not do. All those who, in the exercise of power, are millions of foreign countries from their own, miles of Washington and Brussels from Belgrade, the state of Ohio from Serbia, to whom in the exercise of power foreign people is more than their people, as well as money and prosperity from human misery, from human poverty and poverty, should at least once read the words of the great bishop Nikola Velimirovic, who says this way: "You, man, have secured yourself with gold, armed with drugs, supplied with food and clothing, and took a train ticket for a trip from a hundred years and more, right up to the end of the station. But how are you going to fade, man, when the driver at the first station yells - your ticket only goes this far, get out! "Who understands, will understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28422	Seven minutes from the time available to the authorised representative, eight more remain. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS suggests that Article 3 amend Article 3 so that it reads: "The distinctions can also be granted to foreign citizens, foreign legal persons and international organisations, according to a special procedure and in accordance with the rules on the award of honors to foreign citizens". It is about the fact that when it comes to foreign citizens, foreign legal persons and international organisations, they must be subject to a different distinction regime than when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are aware of the fact that there have been a lot of abuses in the past by certain state bodies with certain official documents of the Republic of Serbia. We were here in the Serbian Parliament exampled that several months ago, the Serbian government assigned a passport to Ollie Rehn, a man who openly advocates and recognises KIM independence. A man who does not recognise the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia is now the owner of the Republic of Serbia's passport. It is a great shame for the state of Serbia and brutally trampling the dignity of all its citizens. We are also aware of the fact that some citizens of the Republic of Serbia received medals, such as Stephen Mesic. You, Minister, laugh, but you know what I'm talking about. So, Natasa Kandic, director of the humanitarian law fund, received the award of Stjepan Mesic, and all the domestic media published it. The problem is that Stjepan Mesic is one of the people who burned the fuse of war at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. In 1991, he was no different from Franjo Tudjman, perhaps even a more fiery opponent of Serbs than Tudjman himself, but, behold, today he is reportedly representing himself as a Democrats and parts of the medals of the people he considers worthy of. So, in order not to do this kind of thing in the Republic of Serbia, accept this amendment and accept that the honours of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to natural and legal persons, can be assigned, but by one special legal regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28424	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word, given that the committees in charge aren't...? The amendment will be declared in the voting day by the National Assembly. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28425	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed this law in principle, most parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they belonged to the position or to the opposition, said that we needed this law, but also most of those who discussed it, in particular points 8 and 9, stressed in their discussions that this was a much simplified proposal, especially when it comes to medals and medals. All the parliamentary groups also had their proposals to supplement points 8 and 9, where they spoke of medals and medals. As far as I can tell, the government hasn't accepted any of these proposals. We, as the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group, did not insist that everything we suggested be accepted. Even if what Mr. Sasa Dujovic suggested was accepted, this law would be much more quality. In fact, this is so far the worst bill of order systems. In an explanation, the government did not even bother to give us, as a parliamentary group, an explanation, but called for the explanation it made on the proposal by Mr Sasa Dujovic. What is particularly unacceptable in this explanation is what the government says has defined and taken into account universal and non-ideological values. It's this very law that's going to be a short century, because it's ideological, too. He did not establish a link with previous orderly systems, and a law that will, in practice, be put out of effect when you pass this law is much better, because he established values until 1349 and 1354, respectively, and to the first Serbian Order - the Order of St. Stefan. On this, practically, this government did not take into account, so there is only one distinction from the previous law that has entered into this law. We find that absolutely inadmissible. Our history doesn't begin in 2000. We are one of the few states in Europe and the world that could say that our first order is almost eight centuries old. It would be completely unideological and from every aspect, both historical and cultural and national, acceptable for the government to define that one of the medals has a connection with the first Serbian order. We also had two periods, two dynasties -- the Karadjordjevic dynasty and the Obrenovic dynasty. And with them, with both dynasties, it was also necessary to establish continuity. It may be partly done in this law, but not entirely. Another period, which we cannot erase from our history, a period after World War II, a period of SFRY. The previous law deleted the ideological features from that period, and that law and the medals were accepted in this people. Now these medals are gone. Something else is characteristic when you look at Article 8. As we can conclude, we no longer have an army, so we don't have any medals to honor any military unit. If I'm wrong, Mr. Minister, you can now tell me which medal you could honor a unit. And that's what I figure out by something else. In the bill of this law, there are no marks that are worn by members of the unit when their unit is distinguished by some military distinction. These features are known as “furagers. ” These are some strips that they wear and can be worn by members of the unit when their unit is decorated by a certain distinction. From that I also conclude that you have not predicted that you can ever honor a military unit with some distinction. The most important thing for you is that you have these first two medals, the Order of the Republic of Serbia and the Order of the Serbian flag, which is absolutely undeniable, so that you can honor foreign statesmen and others who are responsible for co-operation and friendly relations with some countries. That's not a question for anyone in this room, and those first two medals are absolutely not controversial. And we don't think it's ideological, but when you end everything that's national, everything that ties us to our rich national history, then I think it's still a Euro-Atlantic ideology, which is incompatible with our national being. That's why you've defined the length of the duration of this bill of yours. It will last as long as it lasts and your coalition. And I thought, however, this law should be so written that we don't change it anymore. I'm not going to say we never change him again, but if we wrote him that it was right, then the need for his change wouldn't exist. The explanation you gave for the amendment to Article 8 that Mr Dujovic gave absolutely makes no sense. We who have given our amendments have read a lot and consulted experts in our history and tradition. All this stuff we suggested was designed in a good way. So some kind of writing of what these six medals mean doesn't mean anything to us at all. If, with those six medals you suggested, you had accepted a number of medals that make a connection to our tradition, then your proposal would be acceptable. It is particularly unacceptable that you have underestimated all the celebrities in our history with this proposal. If we look at that day yesterday, which we all say is one of the most important days for Serbian history, because yesterday was Mr. Medvedev, I conclude that you, as a ruling coalition, think one thing, speak the other, and the third you do. Of these people we gave the mail to yesterday, who participated in the release of Belgrade and who died in 1964 in a plane crash on Avali, one was decorated by the National Hero Order, as well as 1,320 or 1,330 other people in Serbia in World War II, after World War II, and even after the war or aggression of 1999. You were distracted by that medal, so you erased it. And Russia didn't erase that medal. And she had a Red Army Hero Order back then, and now she has a Russian Hero Order. It seems to me that the last such medals were awarded in 2004, following the tragic events in Beslan. As far as this Orden system is concerned, which I say is the worst Serbia has in its history precisely because they could not find themselves in this proposal a medal related to Karadzic, Negos, Nemanje, which was all in the previous Orden system, for Vuk Karadzic, for Nikola Tesla. Later, when we get to these medals, we will see other famous Serbs from Serbian history who have not found their place in the proposal of this Orden system and your law. I think it's a shame for Serbia, that such a relationship with our history is inadmissible, and in no case can we support such a proposal and we will not vote, but we will tell the public what it means to pass one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28426	Nine minutes have been used since the time available to the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. There are six minutes left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28427	Madam Chairman, I will speak within the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment of the SRS MP Gordana Pop-Lazic is to add point 7 to Article 8 paragraph 1 after point 6), which reads "7) of the Order of Merit for Strengthening Serbian Spirituality and Culture". So here we envisioned that a new order be awarded, whose name will be the Order of merit for strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture. I said earlier that the Order would be awarded to church dignitaries for the merits they have in strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture, in strengthening everything that is national, Serbian, in preserving Serbian culture, history, Serbian heritage. The government said in its explanation of the distinction classification: ''Head II. The bill adopted the usual division of medals, medals and monuments. On the occasion of the definition for the names of medals and medals (Art. ( 8 and 9.) The position was to take into account universal and superdedeological values (courage, nobility, merit for the state), state symbols (the flag of the Republic of Serbia) and the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia (The Meeting). In doing so, the most important order bears the name of the country itself - the Republic of Serbia. Such access shall also have a foothold in parallel law. With regard to the degree of excellence, the principle of trotterhood for medals and two-stage medals has been accepted, except for the Order of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest order of state, which has two degrees. Although there are three to five-degree medals in most of the orderly systems, the three-degree definition is that they are sufficient to advance the medals and that they cover a wide enough range of merits." As far as this classification is concerned, we had no more amendments to it than to provide for a new order, the Order to strengthen Serbian spirituality and culture. There may have been an opportunity to discuss this further, to submit some more amendments, but in some ways, we have accepted what you have said as a classification of the Order, with one remark, which I have said before and which I will repeat, that the government is nevertheless all about Serbian tradition, for a Serbian national being, for Serbian history, for Serbian culture and for Serbian heritage is simply ignoring in its legal proposals, and that is exactly what it did in this legislative proposal, when it comes to the classification of these medals. We believe that there is indeed every justification to accept the amendment of the SRS MP, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, and to provide for a new medal, the Order of merit for strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture, which will be awarded to church dignitaries, and for the extraordinary merits they have achieved in strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28428	Three minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28429	Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, which reads: "The Order of Credit for strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture has three degrees and is assigned for special merits in developing, expanding and strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture. It is awarded to church dignitaries on a reasoned proposal from the Serbian Orthodox Church, with the written consent of the Patriarchy of the Serbian Orthodox Church." I underline - for special merits in developing, expanding and strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture. Our tendency goes in this direction that the Serbian Orthodox Church is the only organization that has its own organisational units, i.e. parishioners and dioceses, almost every country on the planet, and certainly on all continents. The Serbian Orthodox Church, with its parishes and diaspora, is the headquarters of gathering our emigrants or diaspora. Of course, this is even more visible where the state of Serbia is unable to organise additional schools for the children of emigrants, or any other kind of gathering, such as cultural events, exhibitions, etc. The expansion, development and strengthening of Serbian spirituality and culture could not be achieved without serious self-inflicted engagement of individuals. If for nothing else, try to honor the knights of the Serbian National Consciousness at least as ordinary citizens, but with some distinction that is at least adequately defined by an organization that is the most widespread on the planet, even if it stimulates them for even more serious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28430	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28431	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and when it comes to medals, as another kind of medal, of lower rank, this bill is also simplified and impoverished, and it is also the worst proposal of all the orderly systems and laws we have ever had in Serbia. This proposal practically provides for three medals. What medals have two degrees is something completely different. But if the previous Law on Features or the previous Orden System is looked at, then it can be seen that medals for different areas of social life have been provided in the previous Order System, and the proposal also provides for the recognition of the most significant historical personality in certain areas. That's how these proposals or those medals were served twice. On the one hand, honour and recognition were paid to the most important Serbs in our history, and on the other hand, those medals were awarded to the most credited citizens of Serbia in areas where these most significant Serbs had achieved world-renowned results. In our proposal, we predicted there was a Medal of Courage. When I think about why the government hasn't accepted any of these proposals, maybe it's because we, when it comes to medals, are being awarded only in war. This government, under the influence of its Euro-Atlantic friends, threw the term "war" out of our terminology, so she probably couldn't let such a proposal stand in this law. We have predicted that the abundance of medals, as the most significant and most recognized in our people, is being awarded only in the war, which is probably why this proposal is not accepted by the government. We also predicted that there was a Medal of Labour, we predicted Cvijic's medal, the Medal of Humanity, the Medal of Long-term Zealous Service in the State. Gentlemen, when you see on television members of other states, especially members of other armies, or when you meet them, you will see that they carry a large number of medals, either medals, or medals, and those you especially respect, among Americans, when you see their sergeants, you see that they must practically use both the left and right sides of the chest to place so many medals and medals. They get a medal for almost every task they successfully perform. You should've taken care of that, too. The fact that you predicted that we only have three medals is the inadmissible simplification of this Orden system, and that you threw out that medal that exists in the Serbian people for a long time, which was first created in Montenegro and introduced by Negos, that we are not now going exactly to those dates, in 1847 or 1848, which was introduced into Serbia in 1913, and which is the most respected medal ever made in these places, is simply unacceptable. What's said about medals and medals, and what you didn't find appropriate to say anything more than just one sentence, speaks of how deep the proposer of this law got into this problem. This gives us the right not to vote for this proposal in the voting day, because we believe that it is a disgrace to both Serbian history and the Serbian state, as well as to the government that has proposed such a law to the Assembly. And what kind of government we have, we could see it yesterday, when we were at the Sava Center at 6:00 p.m., because for 250 MPs there was a spot on the balcony. As much as the government appreciates us, you can see by that. And they will appreciate us as long as this ruling majority in this assembly behaves as a transmission of government will, but it will probably last while this assembly continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28432	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative, so that it remains available for a minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic. He's using the MP's time group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this Article 9, to which the SNS parliamentary group has submitted the amendment, is another indicator that this law is imprecise, unspeakable and that you have not overly looked at the profession. What bothers me most about this law is the persistent avoidance of Serbian tradition. Mr. Minister, in Serbian history, is everything really so bad that it always needs to be changed anyway? Article 9 is very bad. You predicted there were only three medals: the Medal of Courage, the Medal of Merits and Medals for Defence and Security. SNS MPs predicted much more, and Obilic's medal, in the amendment to Article 8, and Karadzic's sword star. To remind you of what Serbian history really is, it seems I will have to, and who respected all this Serbian history, unlike you. In 1901, Karadjordjev's star was established at the 100th anniversary of the First Serbian Uprising. Evidence that some other authorities, although not good for Serbia, respected these markings is the very star of Karadjorjev, which was highly respected in the communist era, at the time of the SFRY, in order for you to throw it out, add some medals, etc. Let me remind you that President Tadic has not assigned any for five years' term of office. I believe there were well-deserved citizens, that there was an opportunity to be assigned, but he didn't consider it necessary. I agree that it was sometimes abused in history, so they split with both hands and hat, but it should change anyway. What also bothers me in this law, and in every law written by this government, is that something is always determined by some subsequent, supplementary texts, rules, etc., and never foreseen by law. I would even very much agree with the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic, who is in any case better than your bill, which you also did not accept although he is an MP of the ruling party. Although his, truth is, poorer for content than ours, I think we should still get a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28434	Two minutes and 50 seconds were used time by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28435	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 9. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia, adding one medal to the three proposed ones. In addition to Medals of Courage, Medals of Merits and Medals for Defence and Security, we added, as the first, the Golden Medal of Courage "Milos Obilić", with the following explanation: that it is assigned for actions in the defence of the Republic of Serbia in which personal courage came. In the past and in the past years that our country has been faced with, we have had a number of cases where personal courage has really contributed to the defence of the Serb people, especially through Drina, and I would particularly point out the personal courage of members of the Army in Kosovo and Metohija during NATO aggression on our country. If the promoter accepts it, the "Milos Obilic" Medal of Courage would be the crown of something that is the goal of every soldier and warrior, to stand out in battle, in the preservation of his country and his people. Of course, I am not reducing the value of the Medal of Courage, nor are the other two medals that are foreseen here, but I think that by accepting this amendment and adding the Golden Medal of Courage, Milos Obilic would greatly infuse such a bill when it comes to medals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28436	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28437	Of course, it is not disputed that it should and should be passed a law on distinctions, but from this proposed text, the only thing that is acceptable is the title of the law. So you've misregulated this matter. We've tried to distract you with amendments, but obviously you haven't heard of our amendments. I would like to remind you, before specifically explaining the amendment to Article 10, that, in the light of the proposal for this law, you have written that the implementation of this law requires the provision in the Republic of Serbia's budget of the total amount of six million dinars for the education and work of the Commission for Fines, which is being educated by the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, as well as for the education and work of the Office of Order in the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic. It seems to me that you owe people's MPs and the public of Serbia an explanation of what this particular means, how many newly employed people are in that office, in that commission, how many new salaries and how many new jobs there will be in the name of these new jobs will be in the state administration and local self-government on the basis of a proposal for a law that we will discuss from Sunday. We've already received a meeting with the agenda and then we'll discuss it in more detail, but you really should answer that question, Mr. Minister. You're a serious lawyer, and I don't think it's a good idea for you to succumb to a stereotype when it comes to the reasons for these laws. And in this case, you've written down some of the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure. In fact, with every law that you pass by an emergency procedure, you write the exact same reasoning, which is indeed inappropriate, does not correspond to the real state and again, and for the sake of the public, I am extremely well-intentioned to draw attention to the fact that you are taking care of it in the future. You are saying that this law is proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure since state distinctions are not regulated in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so it is necessary to settle this issue (which is not disputed) in order for the President of the Republic to properly exercise one of its constitutional powers - the award of distinctions, as set out in Article 112(1) point 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It turns out this is the only job the president of the Republic has to do, and he's not. Let's not talk about how much it violates the Constitution, how it behaves against the provisions of the Constitution, how much its real constitutional powers do not carry out. Of course, it's not on you, it's on the President of the Republic. Yesterday, he laughed at the whole nation when he said Serbia was a rule of law. Of course, unfortunately, it's not. I wish we could brag about that. But in the right rule of law, what we will also have in the next session, changes and additions to 15 times the amended and amended laws, etc. You said more – not passing the law by emergency procedure (this is very interesting) could result in harmful consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. So, what adverse consequences would that have on the work of organs and organizations be if this law hadn't been passed right now and just by an urgent procedure? When you write such arguments, you should expect someone to ask you that, so you have an answer to that question. In Article 10. The bill provides for special rules to be prescribed for each Order and Medal, in the text below, it is the statute, which contains a description of the medals, i.e. medals and their miniatures, and which are closely governed by the way they are worn. We in the SRS think that this member, as he is, should only be complemented in the sense that the same statute should be closer to regulating and the reasons for subtracting these honours. And what do you say, why don't you accept? You say the amendment is not accepted, and the reasons for taking away the distinction are legal matter. Well, it is not disputed that the reasons for the confiscation of legal matter and that it is regulated by Article 24 of this bill in a certain way, but also the award of distinctions is legal matter, so you provided for in the law to adopt the statutes. If the statute in that section is already passed, then there is no reason, because first of all, in this Article 24, you were not absolutely accurate and you would have to use some sublegal act without doing anything that does not appear in the law, we suggest, Mr. Minister, that you accept this amendment. He doesn't change the essence of the law, I'd even say it's a purely legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28438	Four minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28439	When we talked about medals and medals in principle about the bill at all, I called the Ministry of Culture, so Mr. Minister told me that the Ministry of Culture had no influence and that it had not done the bill. However, it is also mentioned in the arguments and in Article 26 that the Ministry of Culture will practically determine the statutes, but also the appearance of all decorations, regardless of whether they are medals or medals. Our proposal was very precise. We have proposed that a new position be added after Article 1, in which the Ministry of Defence would be responsible for the appearance of military decorations, which were a special kind of medal, and for the appearance of all others - the Ministry of Culture. There are always interesting reasons for the government, especially when they are called to the Constitution and the law. It says here that members of the 26th proposal had been provided for all issues to be governed by the government's act, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. It is absolutely clear to us, but we wanted to say that what is related to the defence, the military, the MUP, should be determined by some other authorities, and that the Ministry of Culture should give the statutes and appearances of the medal given to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28440	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28441	On Article 11, which in my humble opinion is truly poor and contained in one sentence, we have submitted an amendment asking for further clarifications on what these monuments are and on which the monuments are specifically referred by this member, by putting two kinds of monuments: 1) The Memorial of participation in the defence of the country from 1990 to 27 April 1992 and 2) the Memorial of participation in the defence of the country in 1999, i.e. during NATO aggression. As a direct participant of all this, I would really be pleased if the Ministry would at least accept some of these proposals, which would in any case allow a few hundred thousand citizens who defended the state when it was attacked to get a little more understanding and acceptance of all of what these colleagues were or all of us were doing together at that time. The monuments once gave great recognition to the participants of the war. We have Albanian monuments, World War II monuments, so why not also monuments from the last wars, because indeed a large number of Serbian citizens have defended this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28442	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia is a serious and responsible state business. And what do we essentially have? We have a very poor proposal for that law. When members start reading from side to side, they get the impression that this law is time-limited, and to one, it could be said, a very close time, that is, the short duration of this law. This law is subject to 31 amendments. The government seems to have only accepted one. From an explanation why amendments are not accepted to conclude that this law was intended only to appear. Minister Markovic came out, and I would like to ask him, although perhaps someone from the assembly majority can answer me – is the adoption of this law a condition for integration with the EU or not? We at the SRS and how do we know it has nothing to do with it? counterpart Zoran Krasic gave a good answer – yes, it is related to NATO. This is best seen in the proposal for this law, in the provisions of Article 3(3). But I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 14, so I'd like to talk about it now. Article 14(1) speaks of who all have the power to propose to the President of the Republic to grant a medal by order. Article 14 is set out in Part III. This law, which speaks of the award of medals. The bill states that a proposal for the award of medals can be submitted by state authorities, so a group of authorised proposings. The second is the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. I'm deliberately trying to count this precisely, because of the amendments that the SRS filed on this member. The third group is the authorities of the autonomous province, the fourth unit of local self-government, and organisations and associations could be said to be the fifth group of authorised representatives for the award of medals. If we were to go from one group to another (there is no more precise term than I have to say group), to conclude that there are special laws on all these groups that regulate their work, establish them, introduce them into the legal system. But what the SRS is proposing is that, in addition to these authorised proposings, under this law, the award of medals should also give the Serbian Orthodox Church the opportunity to do so. The explanation why the amendment is not accepted says, "Amendment is not accepted. All applicants covered by the amendment already covered by the provision of Article 14(1). A bill of law.' The Serbian Orthodox Church, other traditional churches and religious communities have obligations legally established under the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. Here is another argument that is in favour of an explanation by the SRS, which is why the Serbian Orthodox Church was to be included in Article 14, as officials for the award of medals. A colleague, Mirko Munjic, explained in his amendment, which is why the Government as a pronoun or a concrete ministry, only ask God what ministry it is, we know by the jurisdiction it should be, but if we have in mind who was the government's authorised representative here, so we do not underestimate all those who were here in the principle debate, we now see that the government is changing its authorised representatives, so there is no serious access to this law. There is, in fact, a one-time conclusion of certain affairs, and she had no serious business in mind, that this law establishes and gives the possibility to both the President of the Republic and many who have so many times earned to bear these moral public recognitions. The most controversy could be heard about Articles 8, 9 and 11. These are the members of the bill that establish the types of these recognitions. We in the SRS have largely accepted these proposals, although we certainly have objections to the number of these medals because it does not need to be omitted from the view that the Law on the Features of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia envisioned 16 types of medals, and now only six are foreseen. In the light of one amendment, if it is not colleagues of Sasa Dujovic, it is said that in the law's preparation, it came from the point of view that, conditionally speaking, a smaller number of medals contribute to their importance. In principle, such a proposal can be accepted, but it seems to me that a small number of ministries within this government would contribute to better execution of the job. When you propose a law on a limited number, there is no place in the world, but with us it will be passed and voted, I guess to deceive the IMF trail, one of the ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister says – if we reduce the number of perpetrators, then Serbia's citizens will be able to count on better services. That explanation is pointless. First of all, it's not possible naturally. And it wasn't the citizens of Serbia who took hands and brought into the state administration, but it was you from the ministries who did it. So this doesn't stand either, but we need to say the following -- that we should have gone with a larger number of medals, both medals and medals, and it's particularly devastating that we define with only one member what monuments are. In fact, in a precise way, we don't define that either, but we indicate when they can be assigned. I can ask an interesting question and I am absolutely certain that any fellow MP can ask it. What kind of medal, medal, or monument could we be able to distinguish a number of former Viskoza workers from Loznica, who retired as disabled workers a few years ago and receive 3,600 dinars a month? Of course, it's going to increase something when they get one of the retirement conditions, maybe old age. You can check this out. In this House there are also MPs who represent the congregation's majority and can immediately deny me if I say what is not true. I have set this example, and I believe that almost every city in Serbia has similar examples. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The promoter couldn't behave like that. Edmund Berk said – the laws are like houses, relying on each other. We here have absolute discontinuity in granting these medals, which certainly isn't good and it's not right. If we spit in the sky, it'll all fall into our faces. Take care of those who vote for these laws. I can understand that the government is working as it does, the majority of the congregation gave them confidence, but here they should open their eyes, listen a little better to the MPs of the opposition who make the most of the right arguments, the kind you understand, and you know they're true. Don't close your eyes in voting day and accept every law that's come to you from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28444	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SRS has submitted 15 amendments, aimed at completing an incomplete, non-road and slightly confusing law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 and suggested that Article 2 be amended. The purpose of this amendment is to establish precise and clear deadlines until the proposings can submit a proposal for a medal. My amendment reads: “The proposal referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be submitted to the Office of the Order, in writing, with an explanation, no later than 1 January, or 1 June for the distinctions to be granted in accordance with Article 13(1) of this Law. ” It's interesting to hear the government's argument on this amendment. It says: “Amendment is not accepted. It is not necessary to specify the deadlines for the submission of the proposal for the award of medals. The proposer may submit a proposal for the award of medals when he considers that the legal conditions for the award of medals have been obtained." I ask you, what are the legal conditions, which are the deadlines, what does the law have to do with clear deadlines? It's weird thinking about the government. That's why we have frequent changes and additions to legal projects, because such legal proposals are being made after a month, two, three, five, etc. It's a miracle the government's attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28446	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28447	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is gone, so I don't know who we're explaining these suggestions to here and who can answer our questions. We added a new position to article 14. We wanted this member to be more specific, but the government, you can tell from the reasons she gave, just didn't realize the essence of our proposal. And the essence of our proposal was for this unique case, when it comes to handing out medals to the President of the Republic -- who is the one who decides to honor the President of the Republic. According to this view, we have left the proposings to be the same as those provided for in point 1, but that the Assembly, without any principle debate, simply by voting on it. Or do you think the president can honor himself? Then here, in their explanation, they call for Article 112 point 1 point 7. The Constitution is in the sole jurisdiction of the president. You presidents, gentlemen, make this proposal more arbitrary than it actually is. By not accepting this proposal, you have done the president a practically bear favor, and I will prove it to you in article 24. We also asked through our proposal to amend and existing Article 6, so that the President of the Republic can self-initiately award medals, but not medals, because medals are the highest medals, while medals are somewhat lower. The initiative, as you see it, means virtually self-will, and we wanted to protect this proposal from our president's self-will by deciding who he's going to choose, and in Article 24, you've predicted who he's going to take away from. You are referring to the Constitution, and there is no basis in the Constitution for such things. The worst part is when a government or anyone in this country writes that the Assembly is not in charge of anything. The assembly is in charge, gentlemen, for everyone. In the name of the people, through the laws, she gives jurisdiction to some others, and finally, to the president himself. I think it's a lot of nonsense when it's written that the Assembly isn't in charge of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28448	Thank you. I have one question -- a time that has been exceeded in relation to the reasons for the amendment, will you be dislocated from the time of the parliamentary group or from the authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28449	From an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28450	Thank you. Then you've wasted your time as an authorised representative. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another attempt by our MP club and me personally to work a little bit and help make this law really make sense. Article 15 states: "The person who is first decorated with a certain medal or medal is given this award, as a rule, in the lowest degree." Thus, in order to win an medal, one’s work is not viewed by the height of the work, but by some degree, by the lowest step. My amendment was to delete the views of the 3rd and 4th members, saying: "The same medal, in the same degree, can be awarded to the Order or Medals. In the case referred to in Article 3, no re-decoupling shall be granted, but a special mark bearing on the previously assigned distinction." I think it's a little declassified. I think if someone gets a medal or medal for some piece he did, whether it's a defense of the state or an act that the competent office estimates should assign a medal or medal, it should remain authentic and repeat two, three, four times, because it doesn't stand anywhere how many times one medal or medal can be awarded in the same degree, it's just not good. On the other hand, in the last position, it says that a special label is assigned, which refers to the previously assigned distinction. What does a special tag mean? So someone's gonna get one medal medal and one six liters comes, for the six pieces he's done. I therefore believe that points 3 and 4 should be deleted, paragraphs 1 and 2 should be left behind, and thus allow the order or medals that are assigned to some merit to have their own meaning, not to be as pointlessly formulated as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28452	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28453	Mr. Novakovic, I will take some of the time of the parliamentary group. When two minutes pass, I'll waste that time. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 15 on the degree of these medals and medals, but I will discuss it later. The theme is serious. Although when such an unserious text is put on, it can really look inspiring for some of the artistic forms used by Nušić and not order further. It's really a serious topic, because we're entering something called a social value system. Every medal and every medal is something visible, recognizable as a sign of public recognition. But when it comes to public recognition, the word publicly should not only be interpreted as a state, but rather as a society, as something that society gives as a symbol, a recognizable sign that an individual can attach it to a reverse, to a suit, and that neighbors, friends and all those who see it realize that it is a man who has done something good for his people and his country. Of course, when it comes to some transition period, an unedited system of values, or a started and stopped, or a system of values located at a crossroads where there are no traffic lights and there are 16 roads and outways, it is likely that the proposer, in order to avoid facing ideology as something that is inevitable in politics, defines something that is truly impersonal. However, whenever a society or one who exercises power finds himself in a situation that needs to be focused in time and space and in some way determines the direction of the system of values to be grown, then it must infallibly return to its tradition and call upon it. There are many reasons why it should be done. In tradition are also the roots of statehood, and hence the existence of contemporaries. Tradition is probably both infallible, because if it allowed our ancestors 200, 300 or 500 years ago to have their own system of values and, as a result, among other things, that system of values, we and our children come, then there's probably something good in that, and it should be respected. In transition, however, we are in a paradoxical situation. We have diabetic politicians who don't know where the system of values is. Everything is declared a system of values. Anyone driving a jeep is probably a success. He could be the biggest fucker, as Ivo Andric would say, but he's a success. No one has arrested him, no evidence, its economic and material power proves its material status, and what it is in a spiritual sense, as it is in a moral sense, we have made such a society that it no longer matters. It doesn't matter what you want to vote for, what system of values you should belong to, what system of values you're looking for. It's important to you that in some village in Verbas, your child gets a job at NIS and, of course, it's going to be a vote. Then we're surprised at some immorality that manifests itself abroad, and we're disgusted by injustice, and we agree to something that is immoral and what is injustice. So I'm saying that this is a very difficult moment in which we are talking about public recognitions, not only from the point of view of calling these medals, but also from the point of view, first of all, a value criterion based on which something needs to be decided. If the President of the Republic, regardless of who it is, with a name and a last name, should be the one who solemnly signs something and assigns it, and as such, we get a call from someone in a character who says - I'm just knocking, I want to pay a criminal sentence, then the question is, can he even sign it? Is there anything we can do here in the National Assembly by calling for legality, legitimacy, and we know that even an SRS MP can't resign because it won't be accepted? You see, that kind of diabolism that devalues maybe something called goodwill, good intention. Our basic remarks are that in the system of distinction as public recognition we should call for tradition. Because if we weren't to refer to tradition, and I don't know if maybe anyone else on planet Earth could appeal to our tradition... , if we throw Obilića, Obrenovica, Karadjordjevica into the system (perhaps they are not present directly, but as a valuable category they can serve both Dositej and Vuk Karadzic etc.If we don't accept it as our system of values and what our tradition offers, then who will do it? And why would the other one do that? Why are we running away from it? You see, Eurofanatics in this country, at all costs, want to undo, belittle, insult what is tradition, what they grew up with, raised and created this country by our ancestors, but at the same time glorify everything that is tradition, let's say, England -- both queen and lords and shits, etc. It's all magnificent. From who? Of those who destroy our tradition and end our history. How is it possible that people have such a valuable judgment that someone else's is good, golden, so let it be ugly and disgusting? Since only others are useful and good, and everything that is noble is no good, we should give it up. It can't exist. It must fall into oblivion. And why is that? Because there's a new history written here from rulers to rulers. As the new ruler arrives, history moves with him. He's the smartest, he's the most beautiful. He, by that logic of things, can do the best. And we have a situation today to survive the arson of October 5, 2000 and, believe me, if I wanted to do a little Nusic or one of our famous writers, then I could stand the amendments to the "Orden Chumeta" system, or order you further, but I won't. "Orden of lawless construction, first pick," "orden of lawless construction, second pick," "orden of Schiller" -- that's your system of values. And now you want to force us into this way of thinking about some big state thing. And where's the value system? Come on, guys, please, what can the Djelic Association be on? "Orden Duke of Meridian Bank." He came in, he didn't have a dog to bite him for, and eleven and a half million isn't in conflict of interest. Yesterday he didn't even find it appropriate to be in the country, but he fled to Sweden because he hates the Russians. Or a black stocking order over his head, which he would associate with the People's Bank of Yugoslavia. "Orden of the first-degree burning of the National Assembly." Second-degree beat-up order of RTS. And you fight violence. How come, people, please? Well, who's gonna believe you? Who can believe it? This law really needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Forget all my sarcastic jokes, those aren't so important right now. I'm just giving you one idea to think about what we could have done with this bill of yours. As we informed the public in 2001 and 2002 about the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Then we got to know the public about what it was about. The wolf guards a flock of sheep. The goat keeps the cabbage. There, that's your story. It would be best if this law were withdrawn. Because in this law, in addition to this system of distinction and public recognition, not only from the point of view of title, degree, etc., a real system of values must be created. I must also draw your attention to this commission and all those who participate, if I may say so, from the initiative to the final proposal that the person is to receive a public recognition. However, there should be people who can define what social value is and what it is, and what it is verifies, and what it's acknowledged in society through an individual who should be a bright example to young generations and all others, not only from the point of view of giving recognition for its perseverance and perseverance, but also from the point of view of a good example, which should be advertised. Not to be advertised as "A Deer Beer", but to advertise as something that is socially useful and acceptable, as a pattern of behavior. What are we going to advertise and what are we going to do? By whom did many companies buy, who gained greater wealth, who became successful? Are you successful in Aca Vlahovic? By what? It's a start for the estate. What can he set an example for others? Who can set an example for others? Look at the yellow press, what's advertised. They're some new idols. If they are idols, then they need Boris Tadic to give confessions. Which one of them gives confessions? For what, for what system of values? Our tradition is being destroyed, and another's tradition is Glorifying. With us all 200-300 years old as a custom - it's no good, but the custom from England, pubs, etc., that's good, there you are 'in', etc. But there's a state of order. There's no such thing as a country of order here. Because if there were a country of order, they would immediately gather and say, "Condom versus cordon." "Condom against cordon" and now you're promoting a system of values. What is this system of values? A medal for state or for defence and security -- who can get it in this country, when you destroyed an army? I listen to what Sasa Dujovic says about all those who resisted NATO aggression. Sasha, if we gave them medals, these coalition partners of yours would drive them all to The Hague, you know that? They came on that wave. They said in 2000 -- when we came to power, there would be our partners, NATO, America, etc. Where are your partners? Well, you found partners and friends in Russia. And in 2000, you spit on them, and those Russians and those Chinese. There's your system of values! Who's to answer? Whoever doesn't open doesn't answer. It doesn't suit you. You're operating on the system of "grab, grab, grab, take, take." Of course we can't vote for this. How can you not be ashamed? Ten years ago, Vojislav Seselj launched an action to bring Serbia, Russia and Belarus closer. You laughed ten years ago, and yesterday you all ran to take a picture. Everyone. And you've put the people away so they won't be here. And in 2000, we brought the people ahead of the National Assembly to show their enthusiasm by approaching, warming, and the fact that there are friends in Russia and Belarus. You didn't want to release a status conference of Vojislav Seselj yesterday, and you expect us to vote for this system of public recognition? No one knows. There are no cantars that can measure public confessions. Public recognitions are not an empirium, but depends on the court of value on the one who assesses something. Who's going to grade? Get Konstantinovic into the Commission for Rewards. Do you know what kind of medals will come? Only participants of the Pride Parade can get medals for the people and for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28454	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The word is Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28455	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of this amendment, I will use the time I have as an authorised representative. The SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 16(2), which requires that a time be put in place for the Commission to submit its proposal to the President whether someone is worthy of medals. Since the medals are scheduled to be awarded in February and June, we asked this amendment to be held on February 15th - for the medals given in February, or for June 15th - for the medals given in June. The reason for not accepting the amendment is that it is not necessary to specifically specify the proposed deadlines because the award of medals is not overly bound by deadlines, but is related to the existence of conditions for the award of medals, i.e. whether there is an assessment that a particular person, or entity, should be awarded a distinction. Article 13(1) of the Law provides for the award of medals in February and June. If there are already conditions for the award of medals, therefore the assessment that there are reasonable reasons to award a medal to someone, and these conditions are laid down in a certain procedure, then access is made to further proceedings, by submitting a proposal to the Commission to the President of the Republic on its assessment whether someone is worthy of medals or not. This amendment requires that, if the medals are already scheduled to be awarded in February, for example, the Commission should deliver the proposal to the president by 15 February, and we find that quite logical. The government's explanation absolutely does not stand when it says that conditions are more important than deadlines. It is true, but these conditions have already been established in some way, as it is then delivered to the president for decision-making. We need to order this delivery to the president, so that someone doesn't keep the proposal in the drawer. If the medals are already scheduled to be awarded in February, then the proposal should not be kept until March or April, and only later be presented and delivered to the president. Otherwise, Article 13 of the bill should be deleted, that provision where the medals are awarded in February and June, and left at the will of the President of the Republic to decide and when to award medals and whether to assign everything in connection with the award of medals. Then that's how it should have been done, if you don't accept this amendment already. In the department that prescribes cases for taking away the medal, I would refer only to a few things related to your reasons for not accepting the amendment of Dejan Mirovic, the MP of the SRS, which he asked for the distinction to be taken away and a person who was legally sentenced to a five-year sentence and more. Your argument that acting against the public order and morality in itself implies this case is extremely hypocritical. This assessment, acting against the public order of morality, is very general. However, the condemnation of serious crimes, for which the sentence of five years and more is prescribed, must be binding in respect of the confiscation of distinctions and should be provided for in particular in this law. In the bill of law, you did not foresee it, we have asked for this amendment, and we think that there are all the reasons for this amendment to be accepted. Failure to accept this amendment may result in someone who has committed such a serious crime, such as a crime of promise over an powerless person or child, with severe consequences, a crime of high treason, etc., receiving or continuing to bear the medal he has already received. By accepting this amendment, such an option would be absolutely prevented. Otherwise, it can happen, although it sounds paradoxical, that what can't be big goes to a small door. I think you're the masters of this, and it looks like that's how it's going to happen when it comes to this law. Another reference to the amendment submitted by the SRS, which refers to the case that the decorated person refuses to receive the medal and is considered not to have been awarded such a medal, so what we are looking for is being handed over to the museum. It is usually said that when a man does not have what he loves, then he should love what he has, or receive as a confession, or a medal, as one of the systems of values that his colleague Krasic spoke of earlier. If someone doesn't want a medal and refuses to receive it, that award should be given to guard the museum. Why? Because he's already been conducted for his assignment. The Commission has done its part of the work, already in the law envisaged and implemented the procedure, concluded that someone should receive this distinction and would refer this proposal to the President of the Republic. So this someone refuses to receive a medal afterwards. The question remains, then, what happens to the medal? Is such a medal assigned to another person, is it somewhere to go, leaves in the drawer, can someone take it home? What happens to such decorations? Or, for the next person receiving the medal, it should be written in an explanation, for example -- Marko Markovic gets a medal he refused to receive from Petar Petrovic. Then you should do it if you don't accept something like this. However, what represents a common denominator for all legislative proposals coming into this assembly, which are delivered to the Assembly for adoption and which are the subject of criticism from the SRS, is that all that comes from the opposition, and especially from the SRS, in terms of amendments, in order to improve the text of the proposal of certain laws, you simply ignore or accept one or two amendments, only the order works. Someone once said that sheep and wolf understand the word freedom differently, for often freedom for a wolf meant death for a sheep. At the same time, however, Serbia's citizens need to be clear about something else. As every century has its Middle Ages, so it seems, according to how you treat them, to Serbian citizens, in their lives, you are their Middle Ages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28456	As an authorised representative, you've got a minute and a half left. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28457	Mr. Vice President, you've been breaking Article 195 for a long time. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to article 195, the government determines the members of the government representing it on a particular issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. The government has appointed its representative, Mr Milan Markovic, the state administration minister and local self-government. He's not in the O.R. The session started today at 13.00 hours. I doubt the minister got tired, didn't want to discuss with the MPs even when he was present in the O.R. You will now probably, in defense of the government, say the trustee is sitting here, but the trustee, under Article 196. Rules of Procedure, it has powers only at meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly. Therefore, it can provide expert and other explanations at the session of the Committee of the National Assembly, but there is no authority when it comes to plenary sessions. This is where the minister should sit and not just sit, but listen to what the MPs say and discuss with the MPs. Because Parliament isn't a place to be silent, it's a place to talk. We're asking for the minister to come to the O.R. and be actively involved in the session. Otherwise, this debate is completely pointless. We are not saying this because of the MPs who have submitted the amendments. The MPs do not speak for their neighbors to see them on television, but for someone to hear them. That someone is the government, who proposed this law. The debate is completely pointless. This is a complete degradation of parliament, where MPs speak, and there is no one to hear them. Mr. Vice President, call the government's authorised representative to come to the O.R. to listen to what the MPs are saying and try to convince us that our amendments are not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28458	There's no damage to article 195. The minister is in the assembly, I hope he listens to everything you say, and answers all the questions and explanations he'll give in the final word, I guess, because there's a trustee who follows closely and records everything that's going on here. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28459	Mr. Vice President, I really had to answer the line. Your explanation, at the very least, is not serious enough. I know there's a minister in the National Assembly building, but we don't have any of him drinking coffee or lunch or watching TV or chat with his DS colleagues. We're asking him to be present in the O.R. Not to be in the building of the National Assembly, but to be present in the O.R., to listen to what we and other MPs are saying and to try to convince us that what we have proposed to our amendments was not good and that for certain reasons this amendment should have been rejected. I can't accept that the trustee is someone who's supposed to record what the MPs are saying right now, so he's going to convince the minister. Does that mean that you'll take a break, so the trustee can convince the minister everything he's heard from the MPs? I'm sorry, but that's not what the Rules of Procedure says. When there is a business provision that the trustee is in charge of convincing the Minister what the MPs have said, I will accept your explanation. Until then, I would really like to ask you to respect Article 195's provision. Not because of the SRS, but because of the citizens who are monitoring this transmission, so they can hear what the opinion is and what the position of the government's authorised representative is. Otherwise, the debate is completely pointless, there's no point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28460	I understand this replica in the sense that you are not satisfied with my explanation and that you are proposing that the Parliament's voting day decide whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not, which the Assembly will certainly do. Thank you. Mr. Zoran Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28461	Article 101. You are obliged to take care of the order in the Assembly and of the good atmosphere. Mr. Martinovic called on the Rules of Procedure and made arguments that are absolutely in line with both the Rules of Procedure and the logic. Your answer is not in line with logic. If you give us an explanation that it is logical that the MPs explain the amendments and discuss the law without the presence of the minister and that you, as chairman at this time, justify it, then we are really questioning parliamentaryism in this country at all. Because the government's obligation is to have an authorised representative. The authorised representative is obliged to sit in this parliament and listen to what the MPs have to say about certain draft laws. It is (here, let us also put the Rules of Procedure aside) a matter of sound logic and elemental dignity of the National Assembly, which in this case you must defend. I believe you don't mean what you said here. There is a need to continue to work and you are aware of these needs, but I cannot believe that you think that it is okay, that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it is in accordance with parliamentary tradition and with a sound logic that the minister does not have, and that this is where the discussion is being held.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28462	I'm sorry, I didn't hear what member you called on? (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: On Article 101) Article 101 determines in which cases the MP has the right to reply, and Article 100 determines when and how a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be advertised. I warn you that since this is what you have now done to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and it is very obvious, you do not do so in the future. That's the last warning. I, unfortunately, am not as tolerated as my colleague Komic, and the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do something I would not like to use at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28463	Mr. Vice President, it absolutely stands for what the SRS claims to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. There is no government official, Mr Milan Markovic, present. That's scandalous. Secondly, you continue with that practice of not giving MPs a full explanation of the amendment. It is your duty to say whether or not the Government has accepted the amendment and what the Committee's opinion on the amendment is. We're looking for this not because of the MPs, we got it in the material, but because of the citizens following the television broadcast. It would be good for you to give us all the information we need on who submitted the amendment and what the fate of this amendment is, in terms of the government's opinion and the opinion of the Committee of Resort. You don't do that, and not just today, but for a long time. Both you and the other chairman. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have submitted an amendment so that Article 19 after Article 1 adds paragraphs 2 and 3 that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the right to adopt a rule on the delivery of medals abroad, which will provide for persons who can be presented abroad, the procedure for the submission, the manner of keeping records and other issues, and that the regulation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be adopted within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We believe that this solution, first of all, is in line with the State Administration Act, because we're asking that regulation to be passed by the Ministry. Under the State Administration Act, the ministries are now in charge of the adoption of regulations. Regulations, orders and instructions, according to the provisions of the State Administration Act, are adopted by the ministries, and the Government, in an explanation of why it does not accept the amendment, says - by the provision of Article 26. The bill provides for the power to adopt a government act that will bring certain issues related to the implementation of the proposed law closer to being settled. Under the State Administration Act, only the Ministry can pass a rule. We're asking that the State Administration Act be respected here. That's why we've suggested that the Foreign Ministry be authorized by a state-run regulation body. Otherwise, why the State Administration Act? As we will point out when the debate on this famous bill on determining the maximum number of employees is being held. You put the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, and the law is called – State Administration Act. Then why don't you respect the laws you've passed before? Does this mean that the State Administration Act no longer applies? Since when does the government get the rules, not the Ministry? You don't respect the laws that you yourself have proposed and voted for. Our amendment is absolutely in line with the State Administration Act and absolutely makes sense. Here, Mr. Markovic is only coming now, but I hope the trustee will give him the details of everything the MPs had to say. The amendment should indeed be accepted because it respects the continuity and harmonious functioning of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28464	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Mr. Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28465	Mr. Novakovic, I would like to ask you, if you are in a position to look at the text of Article 21(1) and the amendment submitted by Ms. Verica Radeta. For you and for all those present in this room and for all those who follow this transmission, only one question – does the legal person who goes into bankruptcy deserve honor and recognition? If a legal person is granted public recognition, and in two months' time, he goes bankrupt, no longer exists, no legal follower, then the question arises on the basis of which criteria Boris Tadic has awarded the medal. Very simple and simple, for example, take the system of the company Miskovic - Delta. He's got an apartment-building firm. This company did not know how many hundreds of apartments for the University (I hear half sold, half sold, this half sales on SMS messages, via Pink, etc.) and receives recognition for the outstanding merits and an exceptional contribution to the development of democracy, the Democratic Party, etc. The bankruptcy kills him, the creditors come, the IMF asks Serbia to charge the three billion that Serbia took to cover Miskovic's dubiosis. By the way, he pulled three banks that funded your Belville, etc. He goes into bankruptcy and then asks the question on the basis of which criteria he awarded the distinction to that legal person and how it is possible that such a verified, positive, patriotically defined legal person in a month, let's say in February he voted to be rewarded, in March went into bankruptcy. So what do we do? You see what it's like when the law is written by people who may not even know this matter. Is it possible that a decorated legal person (decorated as a niksic) can go into bankruptcy, disappear? Here's another example. Mr. Markovic, you know it well. In Rakovica, for example, the municipality formed a municipality with some Zoran Angelkovic (but it's not Bucky from the SPS, you know, but one from New Belgrade) a joint firm for consulting services (you know what - everything goes down there in that registration). And the municipality gave 250 euros and that Angelkovic gave 250 euros. The municipality gave them 200 acres to develop some work there. There's Domiko Transport, the Agricultural Association, etc. By any chance, you listen to Bojan Milic, your municipality president, Renata Radjujko or this Branko Raduk, and you assign that confession, and he goes to jail. What do you do with that confession? The Belief of Radet has made a solution. It says, if it can't be delivered, for these reasons, it goes to the museum to be a sort of monument of stupidity. And you have found a solution to whether or not the monument of stupidity is solved by the President of the Republic. Why does the President of the Republic have to take care of all the nonsense? What are you disrespecting your president for? How can you lower his jurisdiction so low? Next example. Mr. Markovic, while you were president of the Palilu municipality, you never allowed it, but here in Rakovica there is a Tina agency in the municipality building. If you want to wash the papers for illegal construction, for this raving, etc., you just call them. Milic and Dacic's father-in-law can also propose this award company. How can you, as coalition partners, refuse to reward this firm, and she, for example, goes to jail? I say he goes to jail on purpose. I'm not that ignorant, I know a legal person can't go to jail, but it's not a legal person at all, it's a laundry room under your wing, under your protection. What should we do with the medal? To the museum. Not to the wax museum, but to the museum of stupidity. Because there's no system of values, it doesn't exist. And I don't know why you need an emergency procedure. To promote stupidity? It doesn't take an emergency procedure, it happens every day. Nonsense is a planetary phenomenon, it's obvious, it's seen daily, and you insist that the decision on whether to go to a museum or "Pull dots, it's not valid" is made by the President of the Republic. Why? He's got major national issues. It should defend Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia on December 1st. Do you know how tough this is? You know he's a little bit of a saying-- I won't sign, I won't admit it. It's his defense, completely his defense. I don't want the statutes, I want the statutes. Let's see if he doesn't get the statutes now. Not to tell you about other things that are being prepared, and he knows very well. Release the president of this nonsense to deal with state affairs. I'm just not in his skin. I believe Orca will sue him for this because three hours of Belgrade circle pets couldn't walk in Pioneer Park. And the police could get hurt for animal abuse because some cops were seen on horses. That's your system of values. While Gilasa, Shaper, Miket Rakic, the Vukadinović, while you can cheer and dress, argue, make all sorts of nonsense a topic for division, you will survive. But if you get into a serious debate, you're gone. Then it's hard for you to listen, then get out of the O.R. and then say, our main argument is 126 plus crutches, reserves and all that. That's not how you run the country. Everything you spit ten years ago now you lick with pleasure. How my heart was so much yesterday, so you know. What did you do in 2000? Let me remind you, in 1997, you threw your shoes here when Milosevic was promoted to the president, and then you resent how in Iraq some journalist was shooting Bush with his shoes. That's when you had this relationship with Bush in Serbia, and now you're licking theirs. Like what you're licking in Rakovica. The DS representative is the president of the municipality, Dacic's father-in-law - deputy president of the municipality. You've all split up in the streets, in objects. I'm organizing a shoot-up of every lawless facility in Rakovica and I'm showing it online with a name and last name that the mob was building and what money, which agency, why, how much it costs. Remember, Rakovica is almost the only municipality in Serbia that cannot spend the appropriations it is granted. And you keep your mouth shut. No, no. I'm preparing four newspapers for those 18 mandates to come out on your nose, as well as these 21 that will come out on your nose. That's why you're losing everything, that's why these censors can't get through, and you're getting closer to it. So, Mr. Markovic, age allows me to remind you of something. There was a security institute in Nis, called Edward Cardellj. One year they were doing business with a loss. Pepca Cardellj called and said – please, do you know whose name you have in name; you have to do positive business; if you do not do business positively, you are embarrassing the name and last name of my dear husband. That was at the time. Don't you think that time is coming back? How is it possible that someone who has been given a confession cannot be served because he disappeared as a legal person? Is there something wrong with the system of values? Perhaps common sense requires you to accept this amendment by Mrs. Verita Radete, and I have tried to explain it a little bit in a way that she would.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28466	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28467	The closer the end of this law gets, the more the senselessness of him becomes. Mr. Minister, as a good lawyer, we know that in the SRS, you of these amendments could react further. So far, we couldn't expect your reaction because no one asked you when you were making this law, and now you're being sent here. An intervention by the deputy head of the SRS Group that you appear here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is quite fine, but I saw when the trustee showed you what it says in the reasoning of the law. So you couldn't react. You won't be able to do it at the end, when this debate on amendments is over, but from this moment on, you can turn yourself in and say whether or not an amendment has been accepted. But there's something else I have to say. While Serbia was Serbia, which means while it was also a recognised state in the world and while its citizens recognized it and loved it more than anything, who awarded medals and received -- it made sense. Now, on the well-explained case of counterpart Zoran Krasic, you can see what provisions of this law can be made and who can receive all the medals. Then it really makes sense for both this law and this debate and everything about this law. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 21(2) is a logical trail of amendments submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The position of the 2nd member states: "The medals returned in accordance with the position of the 1st member may, after the decision of the President of the Republic, surrender to guard the museum, in accordance with the regulations governing the protection of cultural goods." We have submitted an amendment to Article 21, which says that if a natural person dies who has received a medal or ceases to exist, and they do not have their followers, the medals are handed directly to the museum, not to the president. In an explanation why the amendment is not accepted is said - for keeping records. It must be returned to the president. It's as if the records are kept only with the president. You point out and we can begin to suspect that there is no record in other places, which we know for sure is not, because there are records being kept. At least do something meaningful. This amendment should be accepted as before, and then this dilemma will be removed. Then the citizens of Serbia will think, at least for a moment, that you are seriously thinking about this country, even though they are deeply convinced that it is not. I just made an example of former employees at the Viskoza factory in Loznica. They do not expect the amendment or my proposal to run for it, they only expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to create an ambience in this country in which it can live with dignity. Those who have been educated or in any other way should start working, have access to jobs. Those who have done their part-time work so that they can receive what they deserve, which is retirement, and to take care of their health and any other condition. This should be the primary job and task of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as part of the executive government. Today, we have on the agenda a bill on distinctions, which should exist in the Serbian state's legal system, but which unfortunately does not look like the law. That's what we're going to try to show you next amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28468	On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the continuation of the SRS amendment. There's 15 of them in total, and they all have their own sense of purpose. The essence of these amendments is to complete a legal text that is incomplete, confusing and, as such, in practical application will have many problems. It is clear from the previous presentation of MPs and not letting the minister know, knowing the minister, that he was not involved in the development of this legislative project. Otherwise, he would answer and engage in a discussion and give clarifications and opinions to both his ministry and his proposings and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I call on the minister to consider once again, until this debate is over, all amendments to the SRS and accept everything he and the government consider to be completeing the legal text. The amendment to Article 21, paragraph 3, reads: "If a decorated person refuses to receive a medal, it is considered not to have been awarded a medal, so that the corresponding attitude of the 1st member is handed over to guard the museum." The government rejected this amendment and said, "As this case is considered not to have been awarded, neither are the conditions for handing over medals to guard the museum." What is the fate of this distinction - it is not defined by this law. We have tried to complete all these legal gaps that may have some negative repercussions in practical application, but the government's views are so. That is why I call once again on the minister to consider these amendments, to adopt everything that is acceptable and anything that will improve the legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28470	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28471	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, have you considered giving me an answer to the previous question – is this law a condition for European integration? But anyway, no matter what, the SRS submitted an amendment to Article 22. For easier understanding, I will read what the proposal says, and then explain how the amendment was submitted. Article 22 states: "The distinction can only wear a decorated face, in a prescribed manner." That "in a prescribed way" is controversial for us and we want to make that clear, because we want all Serbian citizens to understand legal regulations, and not only those who have made proposals and not only those who need to adopt that law, I am primarily referring to the MPs. Because ignorance of the law hurts. That's clear and familiar to you, Mr. Minister. What did the SRS suggest? He suggested that the position of Article 1 22 reads: "The distinction can be worn only by a decorated person, in a manner prescribed by this law as well as by sublaws in accordance with it." The government did not accept the amendment and, in its explanation, said: "Amendment is not accepted. ''The prescribed way' means an act that is in accordance with the laws and regulations of the sublegal acts adopted to enforce the law'. It is not SRS MPs who suffer from their amendments being accepted, but to make legal proposals as clear as possible to the benefit of Serbian citizens. It would be completely irrelevant to us, as you have done so many times, if the same such or perhaps similar amendment had been accepted by someone who makes up the congregation majority. For us, it is essential that our legal regulations are clear and applicable in practice, not that they cause confusion and that sometimes no one can live by those rules. And when we try to specify and clearly define certain legal proposals, you don't accept it. And as an epochal discovery and the great importance of this government, you represent that soon it will be abolished, I don't even know how many legal regulations, and then the government will abolish its regulations. What it means to us is that when we cause a great confusion, when we introduce uncertainty, and at the moment when laws are passed, you won't accept it, and you won't listen. Since this amendment, I think the legal possibilities of Minister Markovic can continue to be expressed, may suggest that these amendments be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28472	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Mrs. Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28473	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the government's relationship with this law is seen by the fact that even today in a plenary debate in particular, we have, with all due respect to Mr Markovic and his legal knowledge, a minister who is not competent to accept any of the amendments, which are indeed in humble numbers and who have tried to make this law meaningful. The law of this kind and this quality should have been much better done, much more precise and well-intentioned, because it is a law that should not serve one government, but should serve and serve the virtues of this people for a long period of time ahead. On behalf of the criticism of this law, we have a lot of too many comments, but I would like to remind only a few fellow Members present that Mrs Nada Kolundzhija herself in a plenary session has made a skeptic about this legislative proposal. I think that the government has been a little hasty or, as the people say, a little overflighted, in order to pass as many laws as possible, to increase the number enormously, and in the name of that quantity completely disregarded the quality. A modest number of members of this law show that. I have submitted an amendment to Article 22, which refers to the fact that a decorated person may receive a copy of the charter of a given distinction if, under some circumstances, he loses his medal or is damaged, with the appropriate compensation, and asked to be deleted with the appropriate compensation. The explanation I received for the refusal of the amendment reads as follows: "Amendment is not accepted. The provision of a fee is of symbolic character, and it is bound primarily by the obligation of a decorated person to bestow on the distinction and treat it accordingly.' The symbolic fee is ridiculous, because it can't make up for some serious figure in the budget, which has long been insufficient. And the decorated person is a model, sacrificed citizen, who deserved to be decorated by his life's work, pointed out to everyone else, and I seriously doubt that he would come into the situation for no serious reason to ask to be reissued. There's no office that can treat an educated person with education. These are exceptional citizens, who are a role model for everyone, including those in the Office of Orders. Indeed, this amendment should have been accepted, for this symbolic fee that someone should pay has already shown by reason of refusal that this money does not represent anything, does not bring anything, and, in the very relationship with the decorated person, it spoils a lot of things. In the sea of amendments that you have not accepted, which were indeed too much and should have been corrected, if it can be improved at all, because I believe this is one of the worst laws we have ever had in this session before, this amendment would at least show some respect for the distinguished citizens, those citizens who deserve to be and should remain both an example and a role model for all. So this is one little thing that just showed this legal dryness and this civil relationship to something that represents a virtue in this society. The decoration system, the reward system, actually has this educational relationship, and it needs to create and develop certain values for which every society cries out, including ours. So this way we need to show the state's relationship, what kind of contract the state will make with its citizens who are in any case exceptional by their virtues. This part in this article, which is otherwise even the decimals apart and thus shows that it is in that article and in that attitude of excess, is perhaps the best legitimacy of this law. As a result, we cannot support this law by voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28474	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government has accepted the amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Mr. Dujovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 24 is the only member in this proposed law that regulates the confiscation of distinctions and it is clear here, at least it should be clear, that the medals are taken away because of certain procedures of decorated persons. My amendment refers predominantly to war medals, i.e. The medals in terms of war credit, I can't take away. The promoter, of course, refused this amendment. However, I still stand at the point of view that for the strong courage shown in the defence of the state and the people, there really needs to be more understanding and purpose. Second, Article 24(1) states: “A decorated person may be taken away by acting contrary to public order and morals or for other reasons which make him an unworthy holder of medals. ” Paragraph 3 states: “The proposal to withdraw the distinction may be submitted by authorised proposings under the procedure provided for in Article 14 of this Act.” When we look at Article 14 of this law and see who might be the promoters for decorations, medals, etc., there is one, I think, probably a printing error - the bodies of the autonomous province. It's about unity. I suppose it was the organs of autonomous provinces (in order to make it more clear to viewers and listeners). I believe that the medals that have been given on war merits should be something that is for the defense of the people and should be taken care of, and as a consequence, we can also have future generations, which tomorrow should defend this country if necessary. I sincerely hope she doesn't need it anymore, but never say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28476	Thank you, Mr. Dujovic. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 24th amendment. The word is Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28477	Mr. Minister, since you weren't here when we discussed the amendment to Article 14, I'm going to ask you a question and it's very important to me that your answer, as a respected lawyer, is very important to me. Namely, the government did not accept our amendment to Article 14, so my question to you would be – could the president of the state be decorated under this law? If he can be decorated, does he sign his own order? If the president of the state cannot be decorated under this law, then some of his constitutional freedoms and rights are at stake. Our amendment just went that way, to regulate that question. Since he's not accepted, I'd like you to answer that. In connection with the invitation to Article 112, The constitution of those who write arguments, Mr. Minister, would have them read Article 120. Because when we wrote this amendment, we took care of what it says in Article 112, but also what it says in Article 120. The Constitution of Serbia. In our amendment to Article 24, we asked for Article 4 to be deleted, and it refers to the fact that the President of the Republic can take away medals and self-initiatively. In Article 14, we propose that the president can only award medals on his own initiative, not medals. But here, in order to protect the institution of the president, we have proposed by our amendment that the president, however, cannot self-initiately take away the medals, but that those who have proposed the medals have the right to propose and take away the medal. Self-initiatively, Mr. Minister, it can be interpreted as self-inflicted. Self-will is not good, not in any place, and especially not good in the country. Countries that would have an arbitrary president certainly aren't on their way and we don't want to do that to our president. The purpose of our amendment was to protect, after all, the institution of the president. And then there's always treats, Mr. Minister, this government legal department of yours, which writes explanations. It is always called to the Constitution, and we very often prove that they do not know enough and neither do the laws. At this same session, we've already proved it twice to the Secretary of Defense. It says here, "Amendment is not accepted. The power is based on the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the pre-established legal powers set out in the Bill of Law.' No one can appeal to this law, which has not yet been passed in the congregation. And when he calls for Article 112 and the authority of the president, then, if we will, and on that, Mr. Minister, you lawyers always insist, let's see what Article 112 of Section 1 paragraph 7 says: "The President gives pardons and medals." It doesn't say anywhere - it takes away the medals. Although, if it is regulated in this law, we have nothing against it, but not in the way it is given in Article 24, especially in paragraph 4. And if we were to make a machete to the end, then we might say, "If he gives alms, then it is known how the pardons are given." Not self-initiative, always with a reasoned proposal. The medal must always be with a reasoned proposal. That is why, in this case, the initiative was excluded, Mr Minister, in previous laws, or orderly systems, there was no such possibility that the president would self-initiately take away the medals. I believe that those who write such proposals did the president a bear favor and that this amendment should be adopted. Because, Mr. Minister, it's still the president of your party. If we, whom Mr. Tadic is only the president of the state, are trying to protect his personality, you, who are also the party president, should do so before us. It is very important to me, Mr. Minister, that your answer to how the president of the state can be decorated under this law, if you have not already accepted our amendment. If you can answer now, I'd rather than wait until the debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28478	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to amend and amend Article 25(3): "The office of the Order also keeps records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have received a medal from the state, or international organisation, as well as data on the confiscation of medals by the state or international organisation, as soon as they know about these data." The explanation says, "Amendment is not accepted. The keeping of records of the traits taken from the State, or international organisation, has no legal relevance to the application of the proposed law.' There is no legal significance, but it makes sense – to whom, under which conditions, the medal is granted, or taken away. Can someone, say, in a foreign country get a medal, and then, for some misdemeanor, take it away, and here we don't have a record of it, so for a similar act, we give him a medal, and we don't have any information that because of some other piece, or a misdemeanor, it's been taken away from him? In fact, we now, in this way, support and reward through this distinction the misdemeanour that someone has committed, and in some ways we are challenging that other state and its institutions that have taken that distinction away for a reason. counterpart Munjic and counterpart Krasic said, as well as in Article 24. The bill has already been explained by a series of examples, which is why and how someone should be taken away from the medal, so if it is already mentioned in the members of the proposed law, then why the Office not to keep the data and about it? I really don't understand this tendency to even consider our amendments more seriously, and this is seen through the answers of the Government or these services that provide answers that are really in some situations more than confusing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28480	The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group. The word is Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28481	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we did the intervention in Article 10, where it is said that the Ministry of Culture is writing statutes and proposing the appearance of a medal, we added that the Ministry of Defence is doing so, and we are also in Article 26, in order to make continuity with Article 10, we have made this addition. So, aside from the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Defense, as it was given in law, it's practically responsible for these proposals when it comes to military honors. Military medals are, by the way, a special kind of medal. Practically, the medals first appeared as a war, so that only in the 18th century would they appear as a civilian. This law does not show it, but if you look at another Orden system, say the 1993 Republika Srpska or at all all the Ordenic systems, you can see that the excessive group of medals are practically military medals. This led us to give the proposal for Article 10 and Article 26 specific responsibilities and the Ministry of Defence, to ask, and ultimately, to participate in determining the appearance of distinction. I can tell you that even for the previous Orden system, the appearance of our decorations, when compared to the traits of some other states, was quite poor and that this was not a very well-leaded account. I simply don't understand why this is not possible in Articles 10 and 26. When we discussed the laws in principle, when I mentioned the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Minister came to tell me – that the Ministry of Culture was no longer responsible for this law and that it was not involved in its creation. So the question -- if it wasn't for law-making, how would it participate in the creation of sublegal acts? I was just then speaking negatively about this law and the Ministry of Culture, as I would always speak negatively about anyone who has submitted such an inappropriate proposal to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28482	Thank you, Mr. Delic. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) Mr Milan Markovic, Minister, wants to give the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28483	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in this debate and in principle, when he was my colleague Slobodan Milosavljevic, I noticed two kinds of objections to this law. One group is essential and predominant; it is a matter of concepts and approaches to resolving the issue of excellence. Another type of remark is nomotechnical, legal-technical character, such as the question of why the bodies of the autonomous province are in unity. It's a nomotechnic thing. And the authorities of the local self-government unit are united, and we have 175 units of local self-government. That shouldn't make a mistake. The question of whether the President of the Republic can grant himself a medal is good and quite legitimate. It is not intended for the President of the Republic to grant himself a medal, it would be completely inappropriate. Article 120. The constitution refers to situations where the President of the Republic is replaced because of an objective inability to perform his duty and I don't think it could be applied there. Although the question is interesting in itself, I think that, at least for us as promoters, for the government, there are no dilemmas. These main issues, the essential character, are what the medals are intended for. It's just six kinds of medals and three kinds of medals. I have here and a previous law, which is regulated at the level of the SRJ, and there are, say, 20-30 different decorations. Why did we, as Government, define ourselves for this approach? Because, God gave, Serbia had a truly rich history and a large number of people who marked this history with their heroism, their knowledge, so it would be very difficult and very bad, first of all, to try to rank all these events in some way. Let's say, in the previous law, we have Orden Tesla. With full right, someone would ask why we don't have an order of Milutin Milankovic. Or we have a Karajord star. In our history, Karadjordje's star was replaced by such a cross in 1876 or 1877, I don't know exactly, which was the consequence of our people's division when it came to the crown, and then the Karadjordjev star was restored. I want to say that, given the wealth of our history and the people who have marked this history, writing such a law, I'm afraid, would cause much more division in our people and much more controversy about what is being ranked than what would truly achieve the purpose of this law. I don't argue that this approach, as an approach, is completely legitimate, but we've defined ourselves for this one, where a small number of decorations, in fact, also gives these traits meaning. You have well noticed in the discussion that in some countries these medals are awarded very generously, so individuals practically have an amazing number of medals on their laps. It's, again, a matter of approach. I think a small number of these medals and a relatively small number of people who get and deserve that distinction are just talking about the value of their work, their contribution to society, their merits in one of these areas for which the medals are intended. I think with these six medals and three medals, they cover all areas of social life, everything that can be realized in real life as a special contribution to our country and our people. So I wouldn't be so hard on the law. It's simple, it's a different approach. I think, contrary to this discussion, the government has chosen the approach that this law that can really last, contrary to some of the views here. I say an approach that can last precisely because medals and medals are not related to any particular historical circumstances or to any particular ideological, don't give God signs. In that sense, I think the law is, in fact, very good quality. It was done by the Secretariat of Law, in accordance with its powers, in accordance with the powers laid down by the Ministry Act. I have to say that in the Secretariat of Law, the best lawyers in the government work. We don't have any better lawyers than those who sit in the Secretariat for Legislatives. These are the people who have sat there for the past 10 and 15 years, very professional people, whom I truly, as a colleague, greatly appreciate and whose opinion for me is, personally, the one I give special attention to. In any case, the law should have been passed much earlier. It is our fault and our responsibility because, realistically, because of the lack of this law, the President of the Republic cannot perform part of its powers, and probably there are people who deserve to be decorated in the past period, but because there is no law, they have not received it. I thank you for this discussion. I think she was very instructive and that someone who listened to her could learn a lot because the MPs presented a large number of historical details that make up part of the wealth of our history and I hope that this law, because of these qualities that I have now made and because of this commitment that I think is right, will get most of the votes in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28484	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a PROPOSAL ON DYASOR AND SERBS IN THE REGION (single) We thank Mr. Minister and his associate. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić, Željko Tomić, Zoran Nikolic and Milan Dimitrijevic, together Aleksandar Čotrić, Aleksandar Jugović, Mirko Čikiriz and Žika Gojković, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budamirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čalić, then Aleksandra Janković, Milorjana Bujatović, Miljana Šaljana Šaljana Žalić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić and Marjana Mirić. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. You received reports from the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia and the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the amendment law, in the same text, MP Aleksandra Jankovic and MP Milorad Buha submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28485	The fact is, of the 123 amendments, how much has been filed... (President: Mr. Krasic, obviously you're interrupting Mrs. Jankovic. I'd like to ask you not to throw it away. )......................................................................................................... In the diaspora law, the government accepted as many as nine. Quite accidentally, the nine mostly stem from the SPO parliamentary group, with rare exceptions. However, the amendment I have submitted is that it is necessary to change the name of the law, that instead of "the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region", the name should read "the law on Serbs outside Serbia". A strong diaspora needs strong Serbia, and when the state is so powerless and paralyzed, then there is no longer a state policy that would preserve the economy, lead a fair social policy, establish a consistent strategy for the preservation of KIM, regulate the autonomy of Vojvodina's consensual constitution and ensure media freedom, and, of course, establish foreign policy priorities that are in Serbia's state interest. I told the minister last time to look at the Serbian people's political rights report in the region for 2008 and 2009, the Progressive Club report. I doubt you've read it. It said that in our time outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, about 1/4 of the Serbian people live. This law will not solve the problem of this people's treatment in detail or globally. The report, which speaks of the Serbian people's political rights in the region, finds that the Republic of Serbia does not have a prudent policy towards the Serb people living outside its borders. The rationalisation that there is no such strategy is that Serbs have civil and human rights in those republics where they live and, as the Western Balkans will soon enter the EU, it will dissipate all these borders and allow Serbs to live unitedly. So we should not fight for any rights of Serbs outside Serbia, because we will all be in the EU once. But the New Serbia's view is that Serbia, as a strong state, must have a strong diaspora and show serious interest and sound state policy in relation to all Serbs living outside the Serbian state. It is clear that this state does not in any way lead an active policy towards Balkan Serbs living outside its territory, regardless of the constitutional obligation. Because, as far as we know, the 2006 Mitrovica Constitution, Serbia is defined as the state of the Serbian people, which is therefore obliged to take care of the Serb people in neighbouring states and diaspora. So far, it's really not organised properly. Issues of relations with Serbs in Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and Slovenia are problematic. Serbia remains obviously not recognising the existence of the Serbian people in Montenegro. In the end, Serbian diplomacy is no longer concerned with the issue, neither does the ministry, and all of it is of the opinion that Serbs and Montenegrins are one people. Why should we do so when it is possible for the Pope's envoy, Cardinal Franz Rode, to mark 1,200 years since the passage of the must of St. Tripuna in Boko, company of Filip Vujanovic, says that the martyrdom of St. The tripuna can be compared to the case of Zagreb archbishop Alojz Stepinc, according to many historical sources of archbishop genocide from the age of Pavelic NDH, who was beaten by Pope Jovan Pavle II. Not by any chance, the call was not even sent to the Montenegrin-Primoral Mitrovica, and especially to the Metropolitan Amphilochy. This is what the human rights of Serbs living in Montenegro look like and their status is clearly determined. In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Serb people also do not enjoy freedom of religion. In that country, however, the process of assimilation of the Serbian people has long been encouraged by official authorities. Of course, the Serbian Orthodox Church in Macedonia has practically been banned, and that Serbia has never, before the Council of Europe or before UN institutions, raised this important issue. Of course, it is extremely symbolic and caring for medieval monuments from the Balkan and First and Second World Wars on Macedonia's territory. Last time I said it, I remind you that more Serbian representatives were elected to the Ottoman Empire parliament than there are today political representatives of the Serbs in Macedonia's São Tomé. That should be a significant fact to someone. What should we talk about when we talk about the Serbian people in Slovenia? He doesn't even enjoy the status of a national minority. A large number of people in Slovenia have been wiped out of citizenship. The question of Croatia. We can hardly talk about it, because in the Republic of Croatia, the Serbian people are practically completely wiped out. He's no longer a state-of-the-art people. Mrs. Kosor announced a change in the Croatian constitution and not only that by revote in the Croatian Parliament, one of the two state-owned nations has practically been wiped out as state-of-state and constitutional, so Serbs have become a national minority, but now, in order to bring Croatian laws and constitutions into line with EU laws, there will be a new change in the Croatian constitution. What can we expect to happen to Serbs in Croatia? It's probably better if we don't speculate. The issue of household law is far from resolved. The returnees are not equal to the newly populated population. Ethnicly motivated incidents are almost daily (we know what these matches look like), but the authorities in this country seem to be responsible for only Serbian fans being hooligans. Croatian fans are simply fans, and the fact that they beat up a little bit and yell at passwords where Serbs should be put on willows again, that is what we should tolerate. Two autonomous wheels, established by Tudjman's regime, were abolished in 1997 and 2001. Although they enjoy the full rights of national minorities, Serbians in Hungary and Romania are also threatened with assimilation. The reason again is the weak activity of the Republic of Serbia on the cultural agenda. What should we talk about Serbs in Albania? They, of course, do not have a certain status in Albania. It's not even known their number. Of course, they participated in draft laws on the rights of national minorities. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry failed to form obligations towards Serbs in the region. However, these obligations are in line with the 2006 Constitution, with its priorities as state, foreign and economic policies. Secondly, to define relations with Serbs in the region in emerging political and economic relations. So we're not just surrounded by friends and very dynamic processes happen in our environment. Third, to recognise the importance of Serb status in the region for the development of democracy in the Republic of Serbia, integration and emancipation of its society. The government of the Republic of Serbia used the interests, rights and organisations of Serbs in the region for the purpose of its internal party policy. What did the Progressive Club, whose report you obviously didn't read, prescribe as some kind of recommendation? The very report states that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to respect the Constitution of certain obligations towards Serbs in the region and that it would be fair for the Republic of Serbia to accept political and economic commitments towards the Serb people in the region, proportionate to the commitments it has made towards national minorities in Serbia. I argue it is necessary to separate the policy towards the Serb people living in the region and Serbs in emigration and diaspora. I'll talk about it in one of the next amendments. Then, to put politics towards the Serbian people in the region among the priorities of foreign policy, because it actually imposes on development and adaptation of both diplomatic and consular networks in the region. Cultural co-operation in the region must be intensified, coordinated and subordinated to the preservation of the identity of the Serb people living outside our borders. Furthermore, the Republic of Serbia should fully implement the Law on Citizenship and allow members of the Serb people from the region to enter the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. There's one more thing to point out. I also submitted an amendment to this, so I will discuss it within the amendments, and that is that it is completely wrong in the diaspora law to ask KIM to also give a representative to the diaspora Assembly. It is also wrong for the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council to put himself in that council at all. Is it possible that we in the state of Serbia are passing a law which practically treats our countrymen from the southern province and treats Vojvodina as a diaspora? I suppose it was some kind of "yellow" condition of support for this law, especially a condition that comes from these "yellow" from Vojvodina. Such a request is completely contrary to the Constitution, the Ministry Act and is practically doubled and mixed into the work of the Commissioner for Refugees. The minister cited the existence of refugees in Vojvodina to be cared for by the Diaspora Ministry. Why is it against the Constitution that you asked for? Because the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad, it promotes the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin. Under the Ministry Act, Article 25, "The Ministry of Diaspora performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the position of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living outside the Republic of Serbia, improving conditions for achieving the electoral right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, improving the link between citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad and their organisations with the Republic of Serbia, informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad about the politics of the Republic of Serbia. ''I'm curious, Mr. Sredkovic, did you think that it was necessary in advance, before the adoption of a statute of Vojvodina which, thank God, will not be brought into this assembly, to provide Vojvodina as a whole new unit and to provide Serbs living in our northern province as people who will be representatives of the diaspora? As far as the Refugee Commissioner is concerned, it is a special organization, founded in 1992 by the Refugees Act. As an authority of the State Administration, the Commissioner for Refugees shall carry out professional affairs of interest for the Republic of Serbia and related executive affairs, in accordance with the Law on Refugees and the Law on State Administration. The Commissioner shall carry out the tasks relating to the establishment of refugee status, the management of refugees, the keeping of records laid down by this law, the coordination of assistance to refugees by other authorities and organisations in the country and abroad and the care of equal and timely provision and assistance, the provision of accommodation, or the deployment of refugees in territorial units, the provision of conditions for return of refugees to areas which have left or other areas that the Commissioner has designated, or until their permanent disposal in other ways, and shall carry out other tasks from its work round established by this law. In line with the provisions of international conventions ratified by Yugoslavia, which regulate the situation and rights of refugees, in order to provide refugees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Commissioner is launching initiatives to seek international assistance from UN institutions and other organisations to provide international assistance. Of course, it is working together with Red Cross organisations, humanitarian, religious or other organisations and citizens. The refugee commissioner is conducting a functional transition from humanitarian action to the development phase, in which permanent solutions should be provided for refugees, both in terms of more massive and faster return and integration, means resolving the problem of housing and employment in Serbia. Therefore, clearly the responsibilities and work of the Commissioner for Refugees have been defined, so that it cannot be rationalised for what you have tried to do with the representative of the Autonomous Republic, according to you, Vojvodina. I will continue in the next amendment to explain what the rights of Serbs in the region, in BiH, especially in Republika Srpska, and what your concern and attitude to what is currently going on in the alleged revision of the Dayton Agreement in Butmir.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28486	Thank you. You've spent 13 minutes, just tell me if you're an authorised representative or a member of the parliamentary group. As an authorised representative, all right. Mr. Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us one of the important laws discussed by the Assembly in this session. I believe, on behalf of the SRS, that we must pay particular attention to him because the treatment of this law covers between three and four million Serbs living outside Serbia. Let me get back to the amendment. With this amendment, on behalf of the SRS, I proposed that the name of the law be defined as a law on Serbs outside Serbia. In a public debate that lasted almost a year, there were several proposals for the name of the law, given that it is very difficult to define and give authority to one legal term, and also to include a vast population of Serbs living abroad. The definition of the SRS was that it would be a law on Serbs outside Serbia, which would have more chapters. The first chapter, i.e. the first population group, should be our real diaspora, Serbs who left these premises 100-150 years ago. They must enjoy a special status with us and abroad, given that the population group has more or less forgotten Serbian, no longer speaks Serbian, has a special economic status, etc. This population group must therefore be covered by a specific programme of measures. The second population group is Serbs who left after World War II and their descendants. It's the most numerous population group. It's so-called. The economic migration of the population after World War II and it must have special measures and activities of the state in order to prevent discrimination and assimilation of this population. The third population group should include Serbs in the region. We've defined what countries they're supposed to enter the region. The fourth group, which is also numerous, is currently counting, which in Serbia, which abroad, is about 500-600 thousand Serbs. These are refugees from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, BiH and a certain group of Serbs who have come to these areas in the years of war since 1991 and even day-to-day. Unfortunately, the draft law has not been defined for this variant, it has been defined as the second name of this law, but legal essence and administrative provisions of the law defining certain powers of the Ministry of Diaspora. The Ministry found themselves here. Unfortunately, other state authorities have no jurisdiction in this law, and they have to. Why? Because in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, we have a number of legal rules that oblige the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to act in assistance, in co-operation with Serbs outside Serbia, but neither does that co-operation, nor do those authorities feel that jurisdiction, and there is nothing necessary to do with Serbs living abroad. I have to implement a provision of the Constitution which obliges all state authorities to help Serbs with their rights and obligations abroad. The obligation existed in the earlier constitution and under earlier regulations, but there was no real and material application of these constitutional and legal provisions. Therefore, it was a chance to help through this law and to find legal instruments and how to oblige the state authorities to really act. If we only retain the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Diaspora, we've done nothing. A dozen active workers in your ministry or a total of 30 workers will do nothing unless we have that interdisciplinary co-operation with all other state bodies, starting with the President of the Republic, who will carry out the tasks in this area in his own way. Here, we see, 20 days ago he was in Slovenia, a social security agreement was signed, which was an open issue for a good 18 years, etc. So that's the jurisdiction, but in addition, his going there must solve other issues of Serbs living and working there, with all their property, social, acquired rights, etc. As for the government, the foreign ministry, what does diplomacy do to us today? Did any of them call the Ministry of Diaspora and ask for certain legal interpretations about the legal status of Serbs abroad, ask for certain instructions from you regarding certain problems that Serbs have? Probably very little. Why? Because the Foreign Ministry doesn't feel the need; there are no direct legal provisions binding on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so they behave accordingly. So if we don't have legal coverage, we don't have some jurisdiction and we don't have, in the end, information. This parliament must be informed of all problems. This Parliament, I say responsibly, has not been informed, and I will only tell you one example. Here, for example, in a year I asked the Ministry of Diaspora and other state bodies in this area at least 50, perhaps more parliamentary issues. I got answers to every seventh question. Why? Because it is a wrinkling matter, which certain state authorities are not dealing with this problem, which is why the matter is intruding into regional relations with the particular Republic of Croatia, including BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, etc. These are wrinkling issues, better not to answer, not to cause certain reactions in parliament, especially from opposition MPs. Let's go back to certain vital problems that they have... I will briefly, given that we have talked a lot about the problems of Serbs in Europe, America, Australia, etc. You don't have an adequate number of people in this ministry, and if you don't interdisciplinaryly work with other state authorities, you won't do anything. Next, about the material assets, 150-160 million, probably for the next year far less, you'll lose everything you've plotted with this legal project. Less or less, it will remain at the level of personal earnings of workers in the ministry, possibly material costs, direct and indirect costs, and these funds will be spent. Where we have to invest, it's co-operation with our diaspora. And there we have to invest huge funds. That's what I was saying in the principle debate. This state, if it wants serious co-operation and serious work with our diaspora, if it wants to attract diaspora funds, if it wants intellectual, scientific and any other support from the diaspora, must invest funds, inform the diaspora about all the problems here, all the possibilities of a man who works abroad, who has funds, who wants to invest here. If we don't find him, if we don't have him on the list, and we don't have a list of Serbs abroad, then how can we do anything in terms of attracting funds, allowing these people to come, to invest funds here, etc.? Our people abroad have no real information about political, economic, economic, financial and other events from the country of origin. Why? Because other state authorities, I stress, are not doing their job. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must provide full support. Serbs abroad print brochures, have their own electronic media to inform Serbs in their environment, but someone has to organise it. The diaspora ministry can be one of the levers, but it can't be just. Of those who left 150 years ago, those who went abroad and those who are currently living in the environment, I think in economic and life terms the most endangered population group of refugees who are genocide policies of the Croatian state and ethnic cleansing are expelled from their hearths. They have come to the premises of Republika Srpska, the Republic of Serbia, living here in very difficult living conditions, and the state of Serbia is doing nothing to help them. Those Serbs aren't looking for anything else, they're just looking for their own. They are sentenced to go and seek their own rights, stop at numerous counters of the administration in both Croatia and BiH and other countries. They have huge problems because these countries create administrative, judicial and other obstacles for Serbs to exercise their rights. Now I'm going to read you a provision of a valid Refugee Act. Article 4 states: "The Republic of Serbia provides collective protection of personal, property and other rights and freedoms of refugees and provides international legal protection in the way it has been established for its citizens." This regulation is not in function. You didn't bring him back to life. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have not brought this member to life, as many other legal regulations have not been brought to life. Now I'll tell you why. Here's a concrete example. In 1991, when war conflicts occurred, Croatia suspended pension payments to Serbs in Republika Srpska's territory since August. The payment is about 25-26 000 pensioners and 15 thousand recipients of various other fees, which was borne by the republic as the federal unit of the then Yugoslavia. It's about 40,000 pensioners and other benefits. Since 1991, according to the Association of Pensioners in Croatia, with normal interest, which, according to international law, belongs to those whose fee is not paid, is a sum of about seven billion. They say seven billion. The pensioners' association in Serbia says it is eight billion euros. Republika Srpska's government has defined itself as a variant of the Serbian Pensioners' Association that it is about eight billion euros somewhere. Eight billion euros for unpaid funds belonging to Serbs. It's just one of the problems with pension payments. Now I'll tell you who the others are. These are pensions, which, by international law and under the Constitution of Croatia, belong to citizens. It's a acquired right, which cannot be taken away. Why? According to international law, one right acquired cannot be taken away from even the most difficult criminals. Someone who has committed the most serious crimes cannot be denied the right to retire, for he has earned it. The Serbs have been deprived of those rights. Let's move on. The second category is pensioners who were not presently in Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska, or SRJ, from the moment Croatia returned, as they say, to its sovereignty in the territory of Republika Srpska, or the Republic of Croatia. Since 1998, pension payments have started for a number of people who have applied as old pensioners. All the others were granted those rights until 2000-2001. But the big problem followed the moment SRJ and the Republic of Croatia signed the Social Insurance Agreement. The Republic of Serbia immediately suspended pension payments to Serbs who have achieved this right in Croatia or Serbia. There was a vacuum of three months, six months, and even years of certain Serbs who retired during that period did not receive pensions, or received early pensions that were 30-40% less than real pensions. Don't bother when it comes to the pension-invalid security counter in Croatia, when they tell it - bring this, bring it, etc., the man says - I'm fed up with more administration, I'm better at this early retirement, which is less than 20-30-50 percent of the real pension, so I'll somehow survive. The next category we need to talk about is pensioners after the signing of the Social Insurance Agreement. Namely, I asked one parliamentary question in 2007 – what do the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund do in terms of speeding up the pension process for Serbs who worked little in Croatia, little in Serbia, so they applied either to this fund or to the fund in Croatia? Administrative procedures for obtaining pensions have been going on for years. To this 2007 parliamentary issue, I received an answer from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that it was a group of 24,000 Serbs who had obtained the right to retire. I'm telling you that this number is so big today, because in the meantime, people are coming in who are exercising their right to retire. Why? Because Croatian state authorities and their pension-inhabited insurance fund are doing nothing to speed up the process. Since it's about people who are mortal, they just stretch out. Twenty-four thousand pensions between 2007 and 2008, so here is the end of this year, with an average pension of over 300 euros -- it is 70-80m euros that the Croatian state does not give to Serbs. Well, now you see. That's where we said 7-8 billion. In addition, we must add those who have not regulated the status since 1998 until 2001, so those who have had problems implementing the Social Security Agreement, so those who are now... It's about billions of dollars. So these people are looking for their own. They've earned their pension right, and they want that pension. They are asking the Serbian state to apply the law on refugees that obliges you to try to resolve it in direct relations with Croatian state authorities. If the Croatian state does not, then we cannot have such diplomatic relations. If the Croatian state does not resolve what is under obligation, according to international law, then it must have an international character and must be discussed in the UN and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European institutions, etc. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must internationalise this problem. Without that, there's no luck. Given the times, I will only bring up another case that speaks about what problems Serbs in Croatia have. It's about conqualification of internships. Serbs living in Republika Srpska's territory do not have a recognised job experience from 1991 to 1998. Here's an example of how legal regulations are played. Namely, the Croatian state passed a law on the severance of the labour force around 1996, with a very short period of application of the law. More than 90% of Serbs did not exercise that right. Last year, a new law on the qualification was passed, which has in its essence such legal provisions that Serbs will not be able to implement the qualification of the internship again. In particular, it is the solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Regional Service in Osijek. This is what they are asking of a man who is supposed to convalidate a job internship in the period 1991-1997: evidence from working relationship, work contracts, scheduled solutions (these are those solutions on the schedule at work), solutions on vacation, old health card, payrolls and other documents. I ask you, which one of us, after 18 years, has a pay-out list from 1991? Which one of us has a solution to the schedule at work? Which one of us has the solutions to our annual vacation during that period? It is only an administrative way of preventing the applicant from seeking to exercise his right. You see what Serbs are facing, what are the problems. For the sake of time, I'll just do that. I'll get involved later on with the amendments. But you have to understand the essence. Now, when I look at the minister of diaspora, I see the entire government and the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia that must be involved. It's about huge resources. We talked about pensions, eight billion etc. It'd still be up in 15 years, one or two or three billion. It's interesting that no one mentions action. The value of the action, according to the Republika Srpska government's persecution accounts, is about 15 billion euros. That's what it belongs to the Serbs. Who earned the right? Nobody. Furthermore, 50,000 apartments in social property, etc. It is a total sum of 30 to 35 billion euros. We're looking for our own. You have to understand that. We're not looking for theirs, we're looking for ours. We're here, we can't go back physically, but we're looking for our acquired rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28488	Mr. Buha, you spoke in time as an authorised representative, explained the amendment and spent another five-and-a-half minutes of your parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28489	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellows, after a very complex and active debate in the principle of the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, and following a session of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, which discussed around 130 amendments and adopted only nine, the PUPS parliamentary group concluded that, in particular, it asked the competent ministry to accept another number of truly meaningful and eloquent amendments, founded in the legislation of Europe, in our positive regulations and, more importantly, in the life practice of Serbs and Serbian citizens outside Serbia. In its study 840 and 1124, the European Parliamentary Research and Documentation Centre () identified the best solutions and identified the great importance of European national countries' relations with their countrymen living beyond its borders. The most important are comprehensive legal solutions that include the diaspora of those countries in the political and social life of the country of origin. For example, Italy, Romania, France and Portugal have legally regulated the diaspora's representation in their parliament. Austria, Bulgaria and Russia have directed state policy towards diaspora towards cultural co-operation and higher education. Slovakia and Hungary adopted the practice of issuing a special eviction document, which gives them a number of benefits. Slovenia has detailed its obligations for its citizens, and is particularly determining the process of repatriation. Serbia has a historic chance to resolve many issues of diaspora and its citizens in the region with a serious, comprehensive, professionally-founded law. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that the awakening of national awareness is an undeniable need for internal and external policy for greater participation in our country's economic development, the need to achieve a historic reconciliation of various parts of the people, as well as the need to reconcile political attitudes between national minorities and ethnic groups. We also believe that definitely everything offered as a solution and adopted through good amendments, regardless of which political groups in the Serbian parliament, must be translated into law. The criteria for determining the status of our countrymen and citizens of Serbia living outside Serbia are widely recognised, both obligation and for the international community and for countries that first translate them into such an important and responsible law as the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. The amendments to this bill should help better define the status of our countrymen and citizens in the diaspora and the region. Origin, place of permanent stay, knowledge of the national language, status of family members, particularly mixed ethnic origin, procedures for the acquisition of the right to permanent or temporary stay, the establishment of citizenship, visa regime, labour rights, social protection rights and status when enrolling in educational institutions, support for associations of people abroad, as well as the care of national cultural traditions, and then the development of property rights and conditions for participation in the executive and legislative authority of the mother country, are a great obligation of this law and our country. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that amendments to the draft law also aim to define more closely and clearly the concepts that will exist in the law, such as: the concept of diaspora, the concept of emigration, the concept of refugees, the notion of persons defected from foreign countries, as well as members of ethnic and national minorities. The objective of the amendment is to make all these terms crystal clear, without exception and without any delay, in order to avoid any political explanation and manipulation of them. Amendments to the bill aim to eliminate all lagging trends from the past stemming from political conflicts, internal and external divisions, from wars and the end of borders, from the mass migration of Serbs and other nationalities and other ethnic groups in Serbia. The amendments aim to introduce a very wide and heterogeneous matter such as this law into the internal legal order of our country, but so that a large number of international documents, such as multilateral international contracts, citizenship contracts, minority rights contracts, migrant workers' rights contracts, testimony nostrification contracts and diplomas, completed education contracts - are introduced in full and protected legal order. In addition, the PUPS Group believes that it is necessary for this law to create a good basis for the launch of a large number of new contracts on the legal position of specific national minorities, on social security, on co-operation in the field of culture, on the preservation of the historical, cultural and religious values of our people. The amendments to this law, with the amendments already adopted, should contribute significantly to the greater activation of all resources of members of the diaspora and Serbs in the region. Our ministries, government, associations of national minorities and ethnic groups must work quickly, efficiently and comprehensively to establish mutual trust, to establish a legal establishment of permanent and stable relations with both foreign states and with our citizens living in them. Serbia as a state is the order of the world's oldest population, with a very high emigration rate towards the developed world, with a greater number of local integrations and a low natural renewal of the population, threatening to endanger the biological survival of our nation. The PUPS believes that, by adopting such a systematic law, all principles and all moments in relations between the country of origin and the diaspora, and the country of origin and Serbs in the region must be regulated, which would be the beginning of multiple legal relations, from which different levels of human, cultural and population capital would be brought into line and directed to the general national benefit. The amendments aim to improve, in addition to human and cultural capital, social capital, by transforming informal links and communications networks with this law into a very serious basis of trust, reciprocity and established common values. Serbs and Serbian citizens in the diaspora, the region and the world must improve their status, significantly improve their identity, have to affirm all the specificities that are important to one responsible, cultural, economically stable nationality. The process of harmonising amendments to the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia has also brought about a balance in terms of certain provisions of this law, and above all on decision-making and decision-making and projects important for the functioning of the system of protection for our citizens in the diaspora and the region. The uncontested balance between functionality, on one hand, and the fastest democracy, on the other hand, has been established. Control and supervision of the dedicated use of funds to carry out these functional jobs between the country and country has also been agreed as a very important factor, despite many different opinions and circumstances. The amendments to this bill are an attempt to significantly improve the different status of our countrymen and citizens of Serbia who now live in neighbouring countries, who do not fully enjoy all guaranteed political rights that enjoy other nations and nationalities in our country. Serbia is now showing a significant will to improve the status position of all of our emigrants, all citizens of Serbia living outside Serbia, through a permanent policy towards the Serbian people in the region. The PUPS believes the law must have a direct impact on countries in the region, in the sense that any pressures in Republika Srpska are halted because of attempts to abolish Republika Srpska, as well as an attempt to reduce the collective rights of the Serb people. This law must achieve full equality between our countrymen and citizens of Serbia with other constituent nations in the environment. The Republic of Croatia must finally establish full equality between Serbs and other citizens, with a definitive solution to the tenant, as well as individual political rights. The Serbian people in Montenegro must soon have a clear status, with equal representation in state institutions and administrations. Serbian Orthodox Church religious rights must also be clearly guaranteed by both states. Freedom of religion and confession of the Serb people in Macedonia, as well as full political rights, must stop the assimilation of the Serbian people. This law, as well as amendments to it, as well as further operational activities by competent ministries, must restore the status of national minorities to Serbs in Slovenia. The activities of the Republic of Serbia on the plan to support the cultural and educational life of Serbs and Serbian citizens in Hungary, Romania and Albania must be significantly ensured by this law in a far greater extent. The PUPS parliamentary group believes it would be fair for the Republic of Serbia to adopt and implement all political and economic obligations towards the Serb people in the region by law. The priority of our foreign policy, in addition to the existing ones, this law imposes further development, adapting the diplomatic-consular network to the needs of our countrymen in the region and the diaspora, which other MPs spoke of. The Republic of Serbia must step up cultural co-operation in the region and bring it into line and submit to the preservation of the identity of Serbian people beyond Serbia's borders. The new law obliges the Republic of Serbia to fully implement the Law on Citizenship and to allow members of the Serbian people from the region to enter the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS parliamentary group asks the Ministry of Diaspora and the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept in particular any amendments that are subject to this goal in today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28490	Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Branimir Djokic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, before I move on to the amendment that I have submitted to the law on the agenda, I would like to use the time provided for by the SRS. There has been a lot of discussion and public debate on this law. Of course, a lot of talks have been conducted on the Committee on Serbs outside of Serbia. The minister had an exhibition that gave some hope that the law would receive some consensus, that we would perform in the best interest of Serbs, both in the state and in the region, which has three to four million. We were hoping that at least there wouldn't be any political and party interests here, that we would find common solutions that would most correspond to the people for whom this law was written. However, as this debate progressed, and as the situation unfolded, I came to the conclusion that it was all in some way, not to use the heavy word - demagogy, but is it possible that of the 125 amendments given by the opposition and a few amendments from the position of only nine amendments were accepted? As representatives of the SRS and I as chairman of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, we also tried to show the Committee to Mr. Minister and members of his ministry certain provisions of this law. We know that this law cannot solve all the problems of Serbs in the diaspora and the region, but there are at least 15-20 members of the law that will really prevent this law from coming to life at all. However, everything remains only on our desire for the minister and members of the ministry to understand it, perhaps they do not want to understand it, so the assembly board ended up with most votes confirming what the government has brought and what the minister has adopted, only nine amendments to the diaspora law and Serbs in the region. Of course, out of those nine amendments, five or six of his party colleagues, Mr. Alexander Chotric, were accepted. I don't mind, Mr. Corric knows the diaspora well, but I wonder what we're doing here right now. What are we doing here today when all these amendments, which we need to talk about, are reviewed and discussed? The diaspora ministry, headed by Mr. Sredkovic, had a chance to see them, and now we're at the beginning. Supposedly today in the Assembly, or tomorrow if we continue because we do not arrive, we will be able to convince Mr. Sretkovic and his ministry that terrible mistakes have been made in passing this law. It might be my opinion personally if it were a few amendments I made or one of my colleagues, but this is about 125 amendments. Is it possible that out of 125 amendments to a law that has only 45 or 46 members nothing good? I wonder if only the minister and his ministry know and know the problem of diaspora best or if anyone else in this country knows anything. If they're the only experts, they only know it, then let's finish the debate, we don't have the exposure and it's going in the package, and we're going to read some of the recommendations here at the session, we're going to go public in the papers to tell our people who live in the diaspora -- here, now it's honey and milk, we've passed the law, and it's going to sort of take us a while to figure it out while we're in power, and tomorrow what's going to be, it doesn't matter. There are a lot of things that I'll talk about later when I make amendments to certain members of the law. It's about things that are that man really doesn't believe. The SRS was seriously preparing before we started writing amendments. We have consulted with historians because there are historical structures here, because it is about Serbs living in the environment for centuries and Serbs who live who know how long the world is, so we have tried to separate it to Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region, as the law says. It turns out that Serbs living in Bulgaria and Greece do not belong to this region, as the minister and his colleagues believe that Serbs there are not indigenous people. To prove that we had studied the historical structure of the Academy of Sciences and the Serbian Archives, we looked at the books of the Serbian Orthodox Church, we tried to collect some facts and go to the Ministry with them. That's what we brought. But the rest is that it doesn't apply. I'd like to ask the minister and his colleagues from the Ministry. Last year, the Diaspora Ministry issued a book by the authors of Mica Jaksic and Simo Djuretic. This is where Serbs are mentioned in Bulgaria in the 7th century. They rely on documents in a book issued by the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of Culture. It is "The illustrated history of the Serbian diaspora", which also calls for certain historical facts, the Academy of Science and other institutions that have in some way provided information to publish the book. Last year was the conference "The position and perspective of the Serbian people in the countries of the environment". At that conference, I was, like, the president of the Committee. There was also a representative of Bulgaria. They were many representatives of our associations, representatives of Serbs in the region. At the time, the ministry also respected representatives of Albania, Bulgaria, Greece. It was not then that they were not indigenous people, that only a year later in law that nation would simply disappear. I want to ask – where did the people who inhabited the Balkans in the 7th century, who lived in the areas of Bulgaria, where King Milutin was buried in Sofia, when southern Serbia was at the border with Greece? Where did we go? But that's a story that my colleagues will probably continue later on. I've submitted an amendment to Article 1, so I can speak further so I don't take up time, and it's going to be quite interesting to discuss here today. I asked that Article 1 be changed and read: "This law regulates the way in which the diaspora and Serbs are linked in the region with the Republic of Serbia, the jurisdiction and mutual relationship between the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in the field of relations with diaspora and Serbs in the region, the establishment and jurisdiction of the Parliament of the diaspora and the Assembly of Serbs in the region, the establishment of the Budget Fund for Diaspora and the Budget Fund for Serbs in the region, the establishment of a Council for Relations with Serbs in the region and the Council of the Diaspora, the registration of organisations in the diaspora and the organisation of Serbs in the region and the award of national recognitions in the area of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Serbs in the region." The reason is that the SRS believes that the term'home state' should be replaced by 'Republic of Serbia'. Although this appears in Article 2, where it says it means the Republic of Serbia, it should be changed because it is a historical fact that Serbs are not a state-of-the-art people only in the area of today's Republic of Serbia, but across the Balkans (Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, Republika Srpska Krajina... ). So there's a lot of reason to replace the'home state' with the 'Republic of Serbia'. That would be my amendment to Article 1. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28492	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28493	"New Serbia" believes that the term "parent state" should be replaced by the term "Republic of Serbia" because the historical fact is that Serbs are a state-of-the-art people not only in the area of today's Republic of Serbia, but throughout the Balkans -- both in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and in Montenegro. I mentioned that in Croatia a new constitution, according to Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, will be adopted without any special debate, to contribute to Croatia's European integration. The fact is that Croatia, as a two-national, had already changed the constitution by revoted Croatian MPs in parliament and declared the state-run Serb people a national minority. It's about as democratic and in accordance with the UN Charter of Human Rights as if, in two-national Belgium, one of the two state-owned nations, the Valons and the Flemish, would lift the government's right. It is very important to remind government representatives, in particular the Ministry of Diaspora, that none of the EU members will ask Croatia to return state-owned rights to the Serbian people, who have enjoyed in Hungary since 1471, since 1630 in Austria, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia since 1918, in the communist Yugoslavia since 1945. And only the return of these rights would provide the Serbs with stability and peace in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, because by denying these rights to the Serbs in 1990, the terror of the Croatian state against Serbs ended with the persecution of 80% of Serbs from Republika Srpska and Croatia and by taking away all of Serbia's mobile and immovable property. So I thought you should adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28494	The word is Mr Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28495	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that at the very beginning, given that it is Article 1, which some amendments have been given, I can put in place a particular issue that is important in terms of how the diaspora that lives and works there is actually citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In earlier times it was said that they were people on temporary work abroad. It's probably a formula that can no longer stand. Please, if you'll allow me to use the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. This question is very important from a certain point of view and I will try to explain it. It's not a matter of positional or oppositional indication of the problem. This is a general problem, in terms of, above all, undeveloped parts of Serbia, which hit on a number of grounds, and I think that a certain treatment of this category of people contributes further to poverty or narrowing down certain standards in terms of giving these environments for their survival. In eastern Serbia, it is particularly evident that in many municipalities almost a third of the population is located in Western countries, where they live and work, and which we treat as a diaspora under this law. For example, Petrovac at Mlava of 46,000 inhabitants has some 12,000-13,000 people working there. The Municipality of Negotin also has thousands, perhaps the number there is even larger. A silk, a construction site, south of that eastern part, etc. This diaspora category is disputable in terms of what is the status of these people who additionally and vice versa contributes to certain status, I would say to those local communities where they come from. A large part of these people come very often to their homes, perhaps every other or third week or month. They invest very big money in our country, especially there in their midst. They pay absolutely all the obligations and taxes as well as the other citizens living here in Serbia, a good part of them has children who go to school here, and the state participates in the part of their education according to certain functions that the law conditions, which puts them absolutely in the same category as the citizens who live and work here. These citizens, who belong to that diaspora Corps, use medical services even more frequently in our midst, because it is incomparably cheaper and cheaper than to be treated there. All administrative services, for example in the municipality or other bodies of the state or local authorities, are used to the same extent as other citizens who are here. In their local communities, they participate in municipal construction through participation in self-dependencies or through personal contributions. For example, the municipality from which I come, Petrovac at Mlava, is famous for the fact that citizens in local communities participated with hundreds of thousands of euros in building infrastructure on the territory, and much of that money was given by those people working in the West. Why is this important now? Because the basis for establishing normatives and standards in terms of achieving the right of the local community is taken by the number of residents who live and work here in our midst, and the citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who work in the West, who equally use all of this in our midst and invest money, are not treated as our citizens and are not taken as a rapper. For example, when determining the amount of local self-government generated from the Serbian budget, it is about transfers, then transfers are made based on the number of residents, without these people living in the West, or who are currently working there. In particular, in the municipality of Petrovac in Mlava, instead of 46,000 people, the number decreases by 12,000-13,000 and drops to 33,000, which significantly reduces the transfer funds although local self-government functions remain in the same range. I will allow myself to discuss this issue again, with the same arguments and perhaps some additional, very quickly, when we have a law on reducing the number of employees in local self-government. For example, there will also be a view of the number of employees in local self-government according to the population, where (in the light of unofficial data, since we have not yet examined the bill) I think 1,000 people can be employed by four perpetrators in the local administration. And the number of doctors is determined by the number of residents who live there, and we said just now that a considerable number of these people who live and work in the West are coming to use medical services here. Also, when the funds from the NIP or some investment are determined, one of the criteria is the number of inhabitants, and that is where we deny ourselves. On the one hand, we have a story about even regional development, about the incentive of undeveloped environments, and in fact, with this approach, we are constantly denying that these environments are progressing and that at least they get what is coming to them in the real population that they have. This further contributes to the migration and departure of these people to larger centres. As some data suggests, students studying in Belgrade and other major university centres will be counted as residents who do not live where they come from, thus further increasing the potential of these larger communities in achieving those rights that these poor areas are fighting for, or municipalities. I would ask Mr. Minister to be actively involved in preparing certain decisions, norms, norms, laws, etc., which will not be further damaged by the environments that we are talking about and prevent as much as possible from keeping up with other environments that are much more developed. I know that this observation, that these people are not practically residents of our country, that they are, in the right sense, members of the diaspora, such as our citizens, citizens who used to be, so they left, because they are diaspora, but they are again some other, special category, in the right sense of diaspora, perhaps defending that these are certain standards in Western European countries or in the EU. This may well correspond to some Western countries, such as Germany, France, Italy, where a vast number of people from Asia Minor and Eastern Europe live. On this basis, they are fulfilling certain rights by these standards, and we are denying the same rights, not on an interstate level, but within our own country. I agree that we need to respect these standards, which are valid in Europe that we are seeking, but within our country we can make certain exceptions, at least in that part that will enable us to achieve those benefits that come from that number of people and residents living in our midst and who really invest their resources and have children and who use certain services and functions of the state and local self-government in those environments. Otherwise, if the future strategy does not include solving these issues properly, I think we are artificially building one story, which will make those environments even more impoverished over time, and in what is a material basis and in the number of inhabitants.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28496	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica-Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28497	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, do you know how two words could describe this bill of yours? It's like a shape-shifting void. Yes, you have sent us into the congregation a shaped void. It is a law that, as it is, will not contribute at all to the resolution of all the problems facing Serbian citizens living in the diaspora and in countries in the region. This law does not promise to solve any of these problems at all, and my fellow MPs have already talked about all these accumulated problems facing our citizens. When the debate was in principle, the DSS MPs suggested that you withdraw this law from the procedure, that some solutions be completely different and that you prepare it seriously. This amendment to Article 1. The bill is one in a series of amendments where the DSS proposes not to go to the creation of the Serb Assembly in the diaspora and Serbs in the region at the moment. Why? Because this is completely unprepared. So, you and this law, and we all know that, you're talking about that there's no record of how many Serbs in which the state lives. Since 2004, it has been said that the Diaspora Ministry is working on the problem. We and in this law, where you're talking about going into serious record keeping, we can see that it hasn't gone far. In your explanation, you are saying that the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region will be the pregnant institution of the new country's relation to diaspora and Serbs in the region, and in this country, the country of origin does not know how many Serbs live in which country. Here we're saying it's two to four million. Furthermore, this law does not absolutely define the way delegates will be elected, future members of that congregation. Who will choose them and how? In July, we had here a proposal of the law of the Republic of Serbia on the selection of national councils. The ministry has elaborated even two different options, two different ways of selecting national minority councils in Serbia. You did not even say the mandate of the congregation. I know you've accepted some amendments that, I say, save you the honor. When you saw the amendment, then you saw that you had quite unseriously prepared this, that you did not foresee a mandate, so that this delegate would be a delegate for two, four years, etc. So, some of the amendments you accepted saved your cheek. However, we believe that the Assembly must not be formed this way and that you should give up at this point in time of that solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28498	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Mr. Krasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28499	Can the Alexandrias give me a head start?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28500	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28501	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. So it looks like a traditional Serbian approach -- women have the advantage, they treat themselves as ladies, with dignity and respect. Article 2 is amended and reads: "In this law: 'New Serbia', the term 'diaspor' refers to those members of our people abroad who are in multigenerational eviction, and it is difficult to diaspora to consider that part of the people who are on temporary work, who comes to the Republic of Serbia several times a year and thus participates in all forms of social life in Serbia. It is, in fact, important to leave Greece, Bulgaria and Austria behind. It is paradoxical that the word "diaspora" (a scattered seed) is of Greek origin and marks members of a nation who live apart from the queen. The word of Greek origin is so treated here that the Serbian people in Greece have just been neglected. You can tell me it's history, but the Serbs moved to Greece in the 7th century, during Emperor Iraq, as Constantine Porfirogenit, in the vicinity of Thessaloniki, was named Servia. Later, Serbs from Greece moved north, leaving their temples on the Holy Mountain and Athos Peninsula as eternal traces. They moved to Corfu at the beginning of the last century and settled in the hills above Ipsos. Today, there are Tomic, Andric, Petrovic, Serbos, who do not speak the language of their homeland. In the early 20th century, in addition to the Krf, Thessaloniki became the second Serbian house in Greece because it placed the command of the Serb army, the royal headquarters and the Serbian Orthodox Church, which founded the school and cemetery. After the end of World War II, a number of monarchs (revealing attention, SPO gentlemen) from Serbia seek refuge in this country, although it was not their final destination. Serbs who founded families in the first half of the 20th century eventually moved from Thessaloniki and the surrounding area across the peninsula. Today, for example. A number of Karadzic families live in Peloponnese, and Serbosa has a family on Rhodes. Unfortunately, the descendants of these Serbs no longer speak native language. When the crisis in the SFRY began in the 1990s, there was a more massive migration of the Serb population to Greece. According to our countrymen, between eight and ten thousand Serbs live in this country, mainly in Thessaloniki, Patria, Paralia, Katerina and the islands of Crete, Rhodes and Corfu. These are Serbian and Serbian-Greek families, students, a number of temporary employees in Greek companies, but mostly people in secondary and higher education. The point is to read this information from a book that you, Mr. Minister, gave us and called "The position and perspective of the Serbian people in the countries of the environment". What did you write that Serbs were a very important factor in Greece when you didn't put them there? Is it really possible that political commitment is what dictates the acceptance of amendments? I think that, as a man who is similar to spiritual orientation (and that should be like a man who is a monarch, unless that has changed), you should respect these arguments. As an argument, I will read again your publication on the situation with Serbs in Bulgaria. Territories in contemporary Bulgaria around Sukov, Pernik, Velbužd, Ril monastery, Melnik, Petrič still towards Greece, a series of places on the banks of the Aegean Sea, lost Bulgarian name and consciousness, although there was a feudal society, and tribal and tribal. The name Serbs use for themselves when presenting themselves to foreigners, writes for Bulgarians Hans Dershman. In the 16th century, he recorded this phenomenon and added that Nis is in Serbia, Bulgarians are around the Yedren, and people between the two cities are considered Serbs and speak Serbian. There's an estimated hundreds of thousands of them again. If that's insignificant, then we really have nothing to talk about, and if it's significant, then it would be your turn to adopt one of the amendments to this national conscious opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28502	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28503	The amendment is indeed identical, but I would explain in a slightly different way the complete problem not only of this text of the bill, but it must be understood that this law is associated with a much larger and more serious topic. What's this about? This is not just a mere definition of what a diaspora is and what Serbs are in the region. I think the basic problem with this bill is that he tried to fix something completely wrong. In the first few members you almost do not make the necessary, necessary and necessary difference in the conceptual definition of something that is the matter of this law. In particular, in Article 2 of your bill, you are talking about citizens of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Serbian people, and you are putting it completely wrong in the context of the diaspora, and by binding the diaspora for mere emigration. There's a basic problem. Anything further is the extraction from this notional galathias. To make it clear to the citizens first of all, because this transmission also makes sense if citizens can hear what it's really about when it comes to this bill, I'm going to try to explain it in a different way, and of course, please include time from the party, because this is not possible in two minutes to explain it. You see, the Serbian people in the Balkans are in a very strange position. What it says in Prepolje – for the West we are the East, for the East we are the West, the collision of civilizations, the collision of religions, the merger and all the problems that arise in Europe first reflect in this space. The Serbs were people in some territory. In one period they were even something below the national minority. This primarily refers to this new country of Croatia. You know for a fact that Tudjman had already planned there in 1989 to lower Serbs to something below 2%, because it is still some criterion applying the Council of Europe. He did not hesitate that even through armed conflict, war, banishment, ethnic cleansing, the genocide that had not been completed by 1945 would continue. Serbs left their ethnic space, went away for generations, and only under pressure from the international community Tudjman brought the constitutional law and Serbs down to a national minority in Croatia. We have no rights, Mr. Sretkovic - neither I nor you nor our children - to accept that condition that has arisen by violent means. That's one thing. I must remind you that we once lived in a much larger state and that all the nations that lived in the territory of the former SFRY met, above all, that criterion -- every nation in their own country. It was torn apart on a warrant from the West -- to cause and control the crisis. There's a crisis under control today. Look what's going on in Butmir. See what this Gruevski, current prime minister of the Republic of Macedonia, Djelic's 2001 adviser. He even accepted a border with a non-existent state. Just to remind you, in 2001, when Bozidar Djelic was finance minister, he was his adviser. You see what these friendships of yours are like when it comes to what they imported from abroad to run the country. A few days ago you made a terrible mistake, where you showed that you actually didn't know this matter. When the dilemma opened over the position of Serbs in Bulgaria, you said -- not the indigenous people at the moment. I don't want to comment on that at all. It's a scandal, a disgrace and a shame. Mr. Sretkovic, is it possible that Tito fought more for the Serbs in Bulgaria than this new government? During communism, all problems with Bulgaria and Todor Zivkov were precisely due to violent assimilation and non-recognition of the rights of Serbs as a national minority in Bulgaria. You're crossing a book that you funded as a ministry. What are you handling? The current interests of the Draskovic family? Please don't. Whenever it was a SPO commitment, the SPO was gone. Where's your Senic, where are your others? We can't believe that. What do we believe in? In what scientists wrote in a book that you funded as a ministry, or in what you read, and what did one of your State Secretarys write to you? We don't accept that. For economic and political reasons, we do have a large number of our countrymen abroad, but we also have the first, second, third and fifth and sixth generations of emigrants. And we cannot treat the issue of Serbs in Croatia in the same way as the issue of Serbs in Chicago. Chicago is not the native territory of ethnic Serbs, and Knin is, always. We can't protect the Serbs in Chicago from the genocide of the American administration. Why? There's been some assimilation there, but it's one big melting pot. I suppose you know, even the Americans felt their feller and Anglo-Saxon civilizational and cultural matrixes, and they also funded small national communities to cultivate their tradition, to have a relationship with their queen, to enlarge such spiritually poor American society. That is why these national communities are highly appreciated there and therefore members of all national communities need to achieve some collectiveity, some specificity. What's the first specificity? Well, the first thing that defines one nation, which is language. In your bill of law, you put a Cyrillic to be nursed. Are you walking the Prince of Michael and the streets here in Belgrade? Where's your Cyrillic, Mr. Lucky? Blue Blue, what's the Serbian word? Where's your Cyrillic in Prince Michael? Now we cultivate a Cyrillic with our people who live 20-30-50 years abroad and their children who were born there, to preserve language, we finance a school in the native language, and in downtown Belgrade is English. Look at the billboards - you can't find the Cyrillic with you to look for. Did you bring in any special fees? Did you do something? No, I don't. You won't discriminate. You have the protection of Cyrillic and Serbian language discrimination. You should be very happy that the MPs of the SRS have even taken this material into their hands. You will impose a Cyrillic on Serbs in Australia, and you cannot go to downtown Belgrade. And now we need to trust you. Don't realize this is our only problem. Remember, there are a large number of people in Europe who have similar problems, but not as expressed as our Serbian problem. Hungarians also have a big problem because they are distracted in several states. If I didn't talk about some other countries, there'd be some debate now, etc. I'm not aiming for any identification. But we have to make a difference. What do you mean when you say "Serbian origin" in the law, what do you mean when you say "national of the Republic of Serbia"? The basis of this law is that this state shows, as you like to say, "a certain dose of positive discrimination against those of our countrymen abroad". That's the point. What's our goal? To enable these people, who want to preserve Cyrillic, Serbian, Serbian music, Serbian tradition, etc., and make it easier to achieve it. If he is our citizen, he has the same protection as any citizen from downtown Belgrade or Sarena beech. When he's a citizen, he's the principle of equality. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the treatment of citizens. What is our diaspora, which moved 200 years ago, so third, fourth, fifth generation, if it has our citizenship, it is an equal citizen of this republic. If he doesn't have our citizenship, and it's clearly origin, and he wants to preserve traces of his origin, that's where we need to help. And not with congregations and councils that fit the delegate system according to monarchist principles - a delegate is elected once, so only death can end his term. Why do you need so many institutions? You've made everything an institution. Like Churchill said - if you don't want him to get rid of something, you make a commission. You're putting this poor president everywhere -- both for the Roads and for the BIA and for the VOA, etc., and now in the diaspora. He can't, he's not the UNHCR High Representative for BiH, he's not Lajcak. Lajcak is understood in color, in coat of arms, in flag, and in music, in everything he understands. Boris Tadic is not a high representative so he must understand everything by task. Or Paddy Ashdown. He even forbids anyone from politics. As soon as someone in Bosnia goes to criticise the UN and NATO, Paddy Ashdown immediately changes the entire assembly -- you can no longer deal with politics and the end of the story. Don't make Boris do that, he doesn't want you to. Any normal man would run from it. That's what this is about. In our immediate environment are the processes of assimilation. You saw for yourself what happened, say in Hungary, St. Andrew and that neighborhood that was recognizable, etc. You saw for yourself, according to the data, how many people now claim to be of Serbian origin, that they are Serbs. But no matter what the number says, we as a state should give our hand. I get the impression that this law was more necessary to define, above all, the work and jurisdiction of the ministry. Here I fully agree with you - in the existing regulations, the jurisdiction of your ministry is not defined, except by the Ministry Act, the Government Act, etc. But essentially, you lack the material and legal provisions to do something. But there's no administrative procedure here, that's the problem. No two-stage, no chance of running a administrative dispute. Then the question is, what kind of state body is it -- whether it's advisory, consulting, something that maintains a relationship, the first instance when it comes here, something organized, etc. And I think it's a good thing you don't become some institution. Because if you become an institution, a state body, then all of this goes to waste. The fact is that a large number of our people, above all on temporary work abroad, all that they earn there, because of nostalgia, because of their obligation to parents and children, transfer these funds here, build magnificent houses, buy something, etc. And the fact is that the government's foreign reserves are primarily held by these people. The estimates were once two, and now about five billion euros each year through these payments come to this country. And that's good. This should not be prevented, this should be made possible, etc. But it will come independently from the Council, the Assembly or anything, because it is a fundamental need for life. He who works in France and barely finds time to rest as much as he wants to make as much money as he can to enjoy, as they usually say - retired, invests here. You know what it's like in that neighborhood towards Negotin. That's where the elevators are made. Two or three generations don't come back, and grandparents sleep in those auxiliary facilities, as they're used to. A great fortune has been frozen, a tiny waste of money. But the state doesn't need to change that, at the very least. It's a personal choice of man and it should be respected. It is necessary to enable and create conditions. Another aspect of this law exists, I must say. We have a situation where the refugee becomes a diaspora. For what? We have many people who have gone abroad from the territory of the former Republic of Croatia or BiH, they are of Serbian origin. They were refugees first, and now they're diaspora, from Serbia's point of view. Serbia is the queen of all Serbs. No one can challenge us, no one has the right to challenge us. Why? Because with the name of Serbia, there is no other state. And of course we want to help anyone with Serbian background and who pleads to be a Serb. Once the main criterion for defining the nation was language, and today it is the personal choice of each individual. So it is possible that, because of the good relations of our SPC, in the center of France around Bordeaux, a portion of the French are declared Serbs. It is possible that in Texas, where some of our monasteries are, some Americans are declaring themselves Serbs, as some in Japan have declared themselves. But that's how it is today, people. I don't need to change it or to hold back or do anything. That's how it works. How many people there are who are proud to stand out – I am a Serb. Let me not tell you about the children of some people who, with Ratko Mladic's T-shirts from Belgrade, went to Fast and proudly showed them even though they knew someone would arrest them – and those English who like to be Serbs. It's all to be respected. We, by all indications, have a negative demographic picture. She's not our current situation, it's been a trend since 1980. That must be known. Since 1980, we've had a fall and we have to do something. We have to help these people out there, but come on, please, let that help be... Don't go to the diaspora like Ljuba Mihajlovic and the Commercial Bank. Eighty-eighty-something years of opening branches, collecting the savings of our people who were temporarily working abroad, transferring here, etc. But I get the impression here -- as the government changes, they would like to establish relations with Serbs abroad to take the money. Remember Borka Vukic, Mrs. Djukic? She was headed by one, let's say -- diaspora institutions, so they raised money after NATO aggression to rebuild bridges. Is that right? So Dinkic came and picked up the money. Right? I think it was only last year that you were able to push, you SPS, that the diaspora return. Remove it as a behavioral style, so you'll have a different attitude for people from the diaspora. But if such sheriffs go like Dinkic and Labus... I think it was four or five million marks, right? So we submitted three years of amendments to get into the budget, to come back. So there were court rulings for the bankruptcy of a bank, so now I don't get into those details. Please, it's a negative phenomenon. For the most noble reasons, people abroad have raised money to restore what has been destroyed by those in whose countries -- NATO villains -- are now whispering to me. So our relationship needs to change. And the other thing -- you're missing more of those associations, aman. You're all flocking to these associations. You're all taking care of these associations. They're fine and they live more than you. Not specifically from the SPO, but from everyone. Everybody's stuck to these associations, everybody, to make some primate. You have provided a number of people in these associations who are just watching how to pass through the Constitution or the law the possibility of them choosing MPs here and that they represent the diaspora. Don't do that for a living. Listen to me. All the countries that did this have made a mistake. Don't take France, Italy and these others as an example. They fight differently for what we call diaspora. They're fighting over language, Francophony, etc. The English have that Commonwealth, etc. We can't compare ourselves to them. As soon as you think we're comparing ourselves with them, we made a mistake. We're small, we have to organize ourselves completely differently and protect ourselves from what's ours and by what we recognize ourselves by. So I appreciate you loving Cyrillic in England, but I condemn you for being a hateful Cyrillic in Belgrade. That's what you need to know. There's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. You remember that Goran Svilanovic. He used to be foreign minister. He's known for a few things. First thing, he shut down the secret communication between the embassy and the ministry. When she was his Maya, they did it all in college. He says he doesn't need a secret communication, we'll fax it; the Americans and the English know everything anyway. He was famous for other things. In 2001, to show them who they are and what they are, he organizes some camp to get children from the diaspora. She was a child for ten days, as long as it was, and left. Then they asked Svilanovic -- well, how is it with our children from Europe? He says all the Chetniks. How's the Chetniks? He says -- they just sing folk songs, put on spoons and cocks; what kind of "Red", they don't care at all; Rade Jorović, Guca -- that's what they're interested in. Well, if that's the case, take care. Oh, just like all the kids. You see, when Partizan played in America, what was our national pride on the ground? Our kids from some club in the folk costume played folk bike. Beautiful picture. What would you change? Who authorized you to change that? People, keep what this people characterize, what this people love. Let it go. She saw a frog soaring, and she raised her leg. Don't do that. And step away from the money. Wherever there's money, there's a fight. And these tips are of no value to you. You're going to secure some influence? You know who used to hold our diaspora. Everything was held by Homeland Security. Who knows what's left of it? Well, that's why they don't want to communicate more openly with the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. And remember how many times some local government has fooled them. Put the money in, open the drive, then get the president of the county, then the chief of the district, then the chief of police, and this one, and that one. That's the main problem. Not a problem, not a Cyrillic, not a problem, not a folk wheel. The problem is that whoever exercises power abuses power. We tried to help you with some amendments, but believe me, this law is absolutely impossible to fix. This law doesn't have a soul, and that's his basic problem. This law has the number of members, the mechanically written text, but the soul is lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28504	Minister Sretkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28505	I'm very glad that you mentioned the Diaspora Fund for the queen and that, in fact, is one of the concrete indicators and evidence that the relationship between the state of Serbia and our diaspora and Serbs in the region is changing. It is true that after NATO intervention in 1999, our diaspora raised large funds, which were unfortunately blocked in bank accounts that went bankrupt. It is also true that the problem lasted for eight years, but it is also true that, after only three months after the start of the government's mandate and mine, as the minister of diaspora, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to settle its obligations to the Diaspora for the queen once and for all. I think it's a concrete and certain sign that it's essentially starting with a new policy. It's one of the concrete moves our diaspora has welcomed, and I'm sure there will be many more in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28506	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28507	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have already said in principle that the DHSS supports the adoption of this law, not making it perfect, but considering it to be a significant first step, one important step in changing relations with the diaspora or our people in dispersion or immigration, let's call it whatever we want, since there are several categories of our countrymen. First that old emigration before World War II and their descendants, so that ideological emigration right after World War II and their descendants, then you have people who have been called gasters and their descendants, and finally, you have this last diaspora, composed primarily of young and educated people who have gone to the white world in the last decade of the last century running from the "thank you" former regime. It's important to change the relationship, to first see how to make a real list, a complete record of how many of our people are abroad. I think there's more of them out there than there, or that number's going to get even very soon, but it's tragic that as a country, we don't know that. Because serious states are very important to their diaspora. Even their diaspora is involved in the biggest and most important decision-making processes in every serious state. This law, of course, needs to withstand a test of time to see its effects. Just like this historic visit is supposed to produce results after a test of time, not based on good words. What do I mean? I think there should be a series of accompanying laws and sublegal acts that would be compatible and in the function of the idea that was put forward in this law. Because all good and good intentions are in vain, concrete things need to be solved. People should have lightning, fast, urgent citizenship, passports, no bureaucratic obstacles in solving their personal and other documents that they need for normal work, life and functioning, and not to fuck from the pits to the unloved when they come to Christmas, Easter break or summer fairies and spend their time lurking in all kinds of tents. Then give them certain benefits of toll and various taxis for obtaining documents. It's a very important category and investment. Many of our people want to invest here, but they are once again burdened with various bureaucratic obstacles and it discourages them. Some have tried, and then they've raised their hands forever when they've seen what hit them in Serbia. These are some things to pay attention to. Also, it works for people living abroad to improve the network of diplomatic and consular representations. And in the principle debate, I have appealed to you to talk, and I have well-intentioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs, not to stick to some old structure of diplomatic and consular representations that no longer has anything to do with real life. Why do we need an embassy in Ethiopia or Nairobi, and we don't have an embassy or consulate in Malta or Dubai, where more than 3,000 of our people live? When you walk down the main street in La Valeta, Malta, it's as if you're in Prince Michael's -- more than 1% are our people. There are no consulates, they should go to Rome, and from Belgrade they reach Malta ten times as long a flight as they do from Rome to Malta. And these from Dubai are representations in Cairo. What does Cairo and Dubai have to do with anything? It's a three-hour flight from Cairo to Dubai. So we have to be in agreement with reality. Also, by welcoming the recent liberalisation and the "white Schengen" for our citizens, I must be honest, at the same time, terrified. Because if 70% of high school students say they want to leave the country, then it's very dangerous and it needs to be prevented -- creating in Serbia an environment for these young, smart and educated people to live, work and stay here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28508	Thank you. The word is Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, and then Mr. Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28509	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of my parliamentary group to state once more the position of the LDP on the proposal for this law that we are discussing today in particular. I repeat what we said in the principle debate - that this is an unnecessary law of the unnecessary ministry. We put forward a proposal five or six months ago that the government of the Republic of Serbia numbers 12 ministries, and according to the proposal, the diaspora ministry absolutely should not exist. Why do we think this law is unnecessary? I'll start with the very reasoning of this law, and you'll see, here I think of the MPs of the ruling coalition too, that what the proponent of this law is calling for, and that's Article 13. Serbia's Constitution, which says the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad and that the Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin, that this bill violates Article 113's position. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you what this is about. Article 1 of the bill says the law regulates the way the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region and the Diaspora Council is established. Then we have a Article 16, which speaks of the authority of the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, where it is said that the Assembly is choosing the advice of diaspora and Serbs in the region. Article 23 speaks of the congregation’s counsel and says that the congregation educates the diaspora’s advice. Where are the advice from Serbs in the region? And if we are talking about the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region, then we are talking about six-seven members who explain this council in detail, while we only have two members who talk about the Diaspora Council, where the Diaspora Council educates the government, and for the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region, the law defines who does this advice, which is what it does and what it does. The question arises why, when we talk about diaspora advice, we are not also talking about the advice of Serbs in the region. I mean the Economic Council of Diaspora, the Board of Status Affairs Diaspora, the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation. These are a little illogical things, because on the one hand, in Article 16 that the Assembly chooses the advice of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, and nowhere in the other members do we see how this assembly chooses the members of the Serb Council in the region. Also, if we are talking about a violation of Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution, when we talk about citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here, when you talk about diaspora, says that diaspora includes citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, but we do not see through these members how this law treats citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not members of the majority people in the Republic of Serbia. Look, Mr. Minister, Article 4(2). It says: "Using, learning, preserving and fostering Serbian and Cyrillic letters, guarding and caring for Serbian cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identities." Is this supposed to stand? Yes, but it should also stand for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not members of the majority people. Also, Mr. Minister, in article 14, where you define what you mean by diaspora organisations, you say, 'To protect and cultivate Serbian cultural, religious and ethnic identity'. Is that supposed to stand? Yeah. But that should stand – the language, religious and cultural identity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Yeah, and that should stand. Do we, in this way, throw out all diaspora organizations that have multiethnic character out of this law? Or can those organisations that have a multiethnic character, under this diaspora law, compete for the means designed to cultivate language, tradition and other things defined by the draft of this law? All this says that this law, according to us, is unnecessary. Why is it unnecessary? Because it only speaks in terms of citizens, citizens, but if we go into essence, you will see that citizens here, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have no influence, or cannot have such influence as members of the majority people. Look at Article 2 in this law, where you say the diaspora includes also members of the Serb emigrant people from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and from the region and their descendants. Article 4 in the last position states: "For the sake of realising ties and with emigrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants, which are not covered by Article 2 of this law, if there is common awareness". Article 2 does not require this common awareness, but Articles 4 and 2 require that common awareness. There is another important question – who defines this common consciousness, or who is on the other side to say that there is, or is not, this common consciousness? These are all arguments why we can't vote for this bill. On the other hand, all these arguments have affected the fact that the LDP does not submit any amendments because we believe that this law cannot be corrected. The concept of this law is foreign to us and, therefore, we will not vote for it. We also call on some of the ruling coalitions not to support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28510	Thank you. The word is Mr. Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28511	Unlike our football representative Krasic, who plays great and is very precise, his last name here in the Assembly is all missing. And not only that, but also the team leading and the other players were also very inaccurate in the discussion regarding the provisions of this law. In short, when it comes to members of the Serb people living in Bulgaria and Greece, which is the subject of this amendment, there is really no Serb in the two countries that live there as autochtony. They've been gone for centuries. They lived in the Middle Ages, but they've been gone for centuries. And when we talk about Serbs in Bulgaria and Greece, then we can only talk about Serbs going to the Ilinci market or Metro to buy something. When they leave Nish, they stay there for a few hours. These are the only members of our people in Bulgaria. In Greece, they may stay a little longer during the summer, when they are on vacation. When you were talking about Cyrillic, it's really all praise to the Ministry's efforts to preserve that letter of ours, but I don't see what it has to do with... Now that you mention the word "galymatias," then it's the galamatias you're talking about. What does the inscriptions in Prince Michael have to do with the powers of the Ministry of Diaspora? I agree that the state should do more, but through other competent institutions, to preserve our letter, especially in the central city streets, but do not prevent efforts to really help anyone in the diaspora to write on Cyrillic, which the Ministry does by helping them. Let's not be a short memory. Before the Diaspora Ministry was formed, there was a Ministry of Serbs outside Serbia. From 1997 to 2000, a member of the SRS was headed by the ministry, so for more than three years, and there was no law at all. The man at the head of that ministry was doing nothing. Let me tell you. When, after a visit to the Serbs in Romania, I went to him to ask him for help for Serbian schools in the Gerdapian ravine, in Belobreska, which are in desperate condition, he had been a minister for two years, he told me -- well, if it was possible for Serbs to live in Romania, I didn't know that. That's how successful the minister was. The man worked so that no one lived in the diaspora knew that he existed, let alone that he was a minister and that he was doing something. When I asked him if the Serbian Ministry of Serbia could allocate funds to help the Serbian school in Romania, he said -- we can't -- we gave 70% of the budget to fight bulls on the Grmec Court. In your day, this was the basic activity of the ministry that was to deal with the status and rights of our people in dissipation. When it comes to Cyrillic and Latin, your president Mr. Seselj published all his books on Latin. Even I was the reviewer of some of them. It's "The Book of the Flock," "The Bigger Process", "The Hike of the Heretics". They were all published in the '80s. Mr. Seselj himself wrote them and multiplied them and sold them, and apparently he read them himself at the time. I'm really surprised you don't know the odds in the diaspora. And Mr Krasic is in some way more and more a member of the diaspora, as he spends more time in The Hague than in Belgrade, so these issues should know a little bit better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28512	The word is Mr. Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28513	It's easy for me to tell you. There's no god knows what to deny, since this was all unrelated, but it's for the public to say. The Serbian Radical Party participated in the government from 24 March 1998 to 25 October 2000. Let me just make this clear. And one more thing, which I think is very important. When you need to define yourself between Čotric and the books in which he was involved, and they were written by scientists, I do define myself for books written by scientists. It's kind of more reliable. And just now, believe me, I was shaking while Kenan was talking here. Because if that Wolf thing came true, Kenan couldn't, poor thing, even press this button.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28514	Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law, and the one that we discussed today in the amendments, the Law of Features, implies, in addition to some legal knowledge, and an elemental knowledge of history. Minister Milan Markovic, and now Mr. Jotric, a collective member of the DS, seems to have little knowledge of history. We heard from Milan Markovic today that the Order of such a cross was replaced by Karadjordje's star in 1876, when, you imagine, the Serbian ruler was Prince Milan Obrenovic. One Obrenovic replaced the Takowski Cross, which resembles his cousin, the Karajordian star? So it's really dramatic not knowing history. We now make sure that even Mr. Chotric's history is not exactly a strong side. Mr. Chotric, the Serbs came to the territory of today's Bulgaria before Bulgaria. Bulgarians, read history, the Tatar-Mongol tribe, and Slovenian qualities, Slovenian culture and Slovenian language had no one else to accept but from the Serbs. Read some Constantine Porphyrogenite. Read in his section "De administrando imperio" (about the management of the empire) who first came to those premises. I know that you, from the SPO, are the postman Vojislav Seselj and The Hague tribunal. But let me tell you something -- if he hadn't changed his hair, your president would have found himself in The Hague. The indictment against Vojislav Seselj also mentions Vuk Draskovic. Ask him what price he paid for not being in The Hague today. And don't always give someone moral lessons from the SPO. You're a very small party, and in the election you can't get any MPs except to paralyze on the back of DS. You are the last person in Serbia to share moral and political lessons. So, take some history, read something, find out something, then discuss with the MPs of the SRS. As you can see, we have prepared very thoroughly for this debate, and also for the debate on the Law of Remarks. I repeat, this debate, in addition to legal knowledge and how it implies knowledge of history. Unfortunately, Mr. Chotric, you, apart from the aphorism, don't understand the law or the history.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28516	Mr. Chotric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28517	These questions relating to the existence of members of our people in some neighbouring countries are material taught in the third grade of primary school. So you obviously don't even know it at that level, and I know it's a very well-known substance. Long before you, I've read Constantine Porphyrogenite, and let's not engage in this debate, let's now refer to this Byzantine historian. The important facts now are whether there are now members of our people as an indigenous population in neighbouring Bulgaria. I've been in Bulgaria more than once, I've had contact with the representatives of our embassy in Sofia, and we've been trying in every way possible to establish an organization of Serb people, but these are people who have moved to Bulgaria for work in the last 10 or 15 years. These are mostly business people, who were not interested in hiring on the plan to preserve national specialities. So the fact is that, not what he wrote in his work several centuries ago, Constantine Porphyrogenite.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28518	Mr Martinovic, you can only speak within the time of the parliamentary group. There's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28519	Mr. Chotric, obviously you don't know what the concept of an indigenous people means. Autochton is the people whose territory it is. I repeat, Serbs came to today's Bulgarian territory before Bulgaria. Historical chronology shows you that. Bulgarians, Mr. Chotric, on the territory of today's Bulgaria, in the Balkans at all, did not come as a Slovenian people. They're Slovenian. They came as a Tatar, or Mongolian tribe, and they received the Slovenian language and Christianity because they came to the territory inhabited by the Serb people. There's something else. You, Mr. Chotric, seem to recognize when a state over a nation's members commits genocide. Today, few Serbs in Bulgaria are due to physical genocide, spiritual genocide and assimilation. Now you say, "You know, Serbs are not an indigenous people." And ask yourselves, "What is the consequence of this, or who has brought it to this?" Serbs are an absolutely indigenous people -- not in Bulgaria, but in the whole Balkans. You say you read Constantine Porphyrogenite. Then, it seems, those pages that spoke of the migration of Serbs to the Balkans were dirty with yogurt. You may have eaten burek and yogurt, so your yogurt was going to that site, so you couldn't read it. You must take the piece from cover to cover and you will see from the part of Konstantin Porfirogenite that the only two Southern Slovenian, in general, Slovenian peoples who came to the Balkans, were Serbs and Croats. Which Croats? The hammers, the ones that were on the coast. Vuk Karadzic in the book "Kovčezic for History, Language and Customs of Serbs all three laws" says that the only real Croats are waiting. They are the remains of the porphyrogenite Croats, and all others were Serbs. Unfortunately, the tragedy of history is a tragedy, in part, for us as peoples -- that the Macedonians, the Montenegrins came from the Serbs, and now these true duchess, and so on. But these are all Serbs, indigenous from the seventh century to Bulgaria, and in today's Macedonia, and in present-day Serbia, and in today's Montenegro, and in BiH, and in Croatia. If it's to trust Constantine Porphyrogenite, somewhere near the river Cetina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28520	National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28521	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28522	Mr. Chikiriz, you didn't sign up. You have to sign up. We've had an electronic system for a long time. I'm sorry, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic, obviously we won't make it. We'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28523	I got my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28524	You got the word, but what can I do? The advantage comes from those who advertise the Rules of Procedure. You have to sign up, Mr. Chikiriz. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28525	After such a long engagement over who will finally get the word, it seems that what concerns gender equality, and what is a member of this law, will win. Our amendment, which we have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, is to the title above Article 3 and Article 3 – to delete that member. The law says that it is a member who refers to all the concepts used in law apply to both male and female. I just don't understand if Mr. Secretary read this well. And it was unclear to me until I read the explanation. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the member concerned is established in accordance with modern domestic and international human rights standards relating to gender equality. I must ask both the minister and the members of his team, as well as all my colleagues who have read this bill, to read this article again. Because, without this member, all the laws that have been passed so far, which have been applied to Serbian citizens, regardless of gender, male or female, cannot be applied to women. Is that true? Of course not. It's absurd. All laws that are passed apply to citizens of Serbia, regardless of gender. But I totally understand what you wanted with what you wrote. In fact, you wanted to introduce yourself to us how politically correct you are, forgetting one thing. And today we found that, apart from history, you don't even know Serbian. Language is a linguistic category. He's subject to some totally different laws. The moment you bring it down to the political category, as you try here and as it happens in certain laws, it starts to be absurd. Why? You're inserting hundreds of new words, which are terribly raving (of course, these words are always female) and you're making one monster out of language, declaring that Serbian grammar is also completely politically incorrect. Please, this doesn't make sense. This is absurd. And if what you've done here, and in particular in the explanation you've confirmed, is a political demagogy, I'll give you a brief explanation. Here's an example. On the one hand, you adopt hundreds of new rhobarb words, which are necessarily female, claiming that women are so visible in these laws, and on the other hand, you increase your retirement age, you take away their childbearing powers... Women who are already victims of transition, you make them completely invisible, because they don't have the same rights as men -- neither the same salaries, nor the same jobs, nor everything else. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Gentlemen, you're telling stories about how much you lay on gender equality. That's what you're showing by putting in meaningless members, and that, of course, offends women's intelligence, you know. I don't want you to treat me like a subtitle member in law. It offends women's intelligence. I want to be gender-equal, but not by getting me into Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-21-0.u28526	Gentlemen, it's 6:00. Mr. Chikiriz did advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that's what we'll start tomorrow. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that the sittings are attended by 113 MPs, and in order to accurately determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) First Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
