ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19047	The sixth session of the first Regular Session on 13 May 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 16.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 200 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for meetings, in addition to senior members of the government, to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, General Stojan Jovanovic, Head of the Department of Transport Police at the Ministry of the Interior, and Dragan Jovanovic and Damir Hadzic, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure. You have been provided with records on the work of the National Assembly in Dan for answering parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, from 27 March and 23 April 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, in accordance with Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered, in writing, any objections to the minutes from those sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 27 March 2009. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 125, not eight, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 27 March 2009. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current topic, since 23 April 2009. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 127, they did not vote four, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 23 April 2009. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for the merger of discussions. A group of 30 MPs from DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and New Serbia proposed that the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2009, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 36, against two, a abstention one, did not vote 113, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme Loan for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 126 did not vote 28 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that the draft ministry law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2009, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 12, a abstentioned one, was not voted 136, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the protection of plant breeders' rights – as a new, 18th item of the agenda of this session, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 126 did not vote 13, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 23, against one, it did not vote 130, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's MPs suggested putting the draft bill on the agenda for the salaries of MPs and all persons elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 May 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for two, it did not vote 148, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 121 MPs proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 May 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: by 126, against two, it did not vote 19, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On 12 May 2009, the Committee on Culture and Information proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a candidate for the selection of a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency who lives and works in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 127, it did not vote 17, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 165(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On 13 May 2009, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, proposed to put on the agenda a proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency proposed by the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that by 126, 20 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 May 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 125, he did not vote 21, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the deputy public prosecutor, who submitted to the National Assembly May 13, 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that by 126, 20 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle Search on: - Proposal for a Law on General Product Safety, - Proposal for a Law on Electronic Trade (points 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda); 2nd Joint Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, - Proposal for a Law on Food Safety, - Proposal for a Law on Plant Health - Proposal for Laws on Plants and Land Fertilizers, - Proposal for a Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Protection of Plants, - Proposal for a Law on Plants - Proposal for Laws - Proposal for Laws on the Laws on the Laws of the Laws on Agricultural Products, - Proposal for the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Act, - Proposal for the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Act on the Society, the Act on the Act on the Laws, 7th Amendments, 7th Amendments, 7th Amendments on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, on the Laws of theLaws , the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws on the Laws of theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , the Laws on the Laws of the Law on theLaws , the Law on theLaws , the Laws on theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , the Laws on theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws , theLaws ,the Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 127, one of the 128 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Shami, pursuant to Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: - Proposal for a Law on Wine, - Proposal for a Law on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks, - Proposal for a Law on ethanol (points 9, 10 and 11 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Zoran Shami want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19049	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DSS understands the need to bring together, within one session, some points that are related in the debate, and we have proposed that three related points be joined together - a proposal for a law on wine, a draft law on brandy and a proposal for a law on ethanol. However, you have suggested that 11 more laws be added to these three points. I remind you that in this assembly one debate lasts five hours, which is one minute and 12 seconds per MP, and that will say, when you put 14 points together, per MP per point turns out five seconds each. You only read the titles of those dots for over five minutes. I understand the need to combine the debate on various ratifications, but connect 38 points, where different things are ratified, I think it is inappropriate and that it leads to nothing good in this assembly and the DSS is most strongly protesting such a way of leading the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19050	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 26, he did not vote 132, out of the 158 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and proposals for the merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 127, it did not vote 11, of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Agenda: 1. Proposal for a road safety law, submitted by the Government (number 2.1431/09, of 13 April 2009); 2. Proposal for a law on general product safety, submitted by the Government (number 330-1843/08 since 25 August 2008); 3. Proposal for an e-commerce law, submitted by the Government (number 330-2131/08, since 19 September 2008); 4. Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, submitted by the Government (Number 320-3633/08, of 24 December 2008); 5. Proposal for a Food Safety Act, submitted by the Government (number 320-2597/08, of 22 October 2008); 6. Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, submitted by the Government (Number 321-1899/08, 1 September 2008); 7. Proposal for a law on food products for plants and land incinerators, submitted by the Government (number 321-2516/08, of 15 October 2008); 8. Proposal for a law on plant protection funds submitted by the Government (number 321-3195/08, since 27 November 2008); 9. Proposal for a Wine Act, submitted by the Government (number 320-1013/09, since 23 March 2009); 10. Proposal for a law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages, submitted by the Government (number 320-2579/08 since 21 October 2008); 11. Proposal for a Law on ethanol, which was submitted by the Government (number 3-2580/08, since 21 October 2008); 12. Proposal for a Law on Public Storage for Agricultural Products, submitted by the Government (Number 320-2059/08, of 12 September 2008); 13. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, submitted by the Government (number 011-3463/08, since 12 December 2008); 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on reproductive material of the forest trees, which was submitted by the Government (number 322-3654/08, as of 25 December 2008); 15. Proposal for a Law on cattle farming, submitted by the Government (number 320-2990/08, since 19 November 2008); 16. Proposal for a Animal Welfare Act, submitted by the Government (number 323-112/09, dated 19 January 2009); 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted by the Government (number 320-1158/09, dated 30 March 2009); 18. Proposal for a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, submitted by the Government (number 321-1689/09, dated 5 May 2009); 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-758/09, from 6 March 2009); 20. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Revised European Social Charter, which was submitted by the Government (Number 19-3661/08, of 26 December 2008); 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Agreement on International Classification of Patents, dated 24 March 1971, with amendments from 28 September 1979, submitted by the Government (No 011-2033/08, from 10 September 2008); 22. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 167 on Safety and Health in Construction, submitted by the Government (No. 011-2056/08, of 12 September 2008); 23. Proposal for a Law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work, submitted by the Government (number 011-2122/08, since 19 September 2008); 24 Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) on the Privileges and Immunities of the OPCW, which was submitted by the Government (number 22-2235/08, as of 26 September 2008); 25. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on Cross-border Television, submitted by the Government (No. 435-2368/08, of 6 October 2008); 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing an international classification of the figurative elements of stamps, made in Vienna on 12 June 1973, with amendments from 1 October 1985, submitted by the Government (number 031-2369/08, of 6 October 2008); 27. Proposal for a bill confirming the military co-operation agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Austria, which is represented by the federal defence minister, who submitted the government (number 8-2472/2008, since 10 October 2008); 28. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and Montenegro and the Government of the United States of America on Co-operation in the area of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the promotion of defence and military relations, which the Government has submitted (number 8-2745/08 since 31 October 2008); 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on the protection of status and access and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government (number 8-2746/08 since 31 October 2008); 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation in the Area of Defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was submitted by the Government (No. 8-2747/08, as of 31 October 2008); 31. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions, submitted by the Government (number 65-2743/08, from 31 October 2008); 32. Proposal for a law confirming the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Industrial Design, adopted at the Diplomatic Conference of 2 July 1999, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-2787/08, since 4 November 2008); 33. Proposal for a Law confirming the Amending Document of the International Labour Organisation of 1997, which was submitted by the Government (number 022-2811/08, as of 5 November 2008); 34. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Area of Culture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, which was submitted by the Government (number 6-2915/08, as of 14 November 2008); 35. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage (Revised), which was submitted by the Government (number 63-3450/08, as of 12 December 2008); 36. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece amending the Treaty between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Greece on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes submitted by the Government (No 43-3634/08, of 24 December 2008); 37. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income Taxes and Assets, submitted by the Government (number 43-3635/08, since 24 December 2008); 38. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the protection of war graves, which was submitted by the Government (number 352-170/09, as of 23 January 2009); 39. Proposal for a law confirming the Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, which was submitted by the Government (number 335-759/09, from 6 March 2009); 40. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on supply and mutual services (USA-SRB-01) between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States, which was submitted by the Government (number 8-760/09 of 6 March 2009); 41. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was submitted by the Government (Number 011-765/09, 6 March 2009); 42. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on trade and economic co-operation, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-770/09, dated 6 March 2009); 43. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of former Soviet Union obligations under accounts relating to trade between the former USSR and the former SFRJ, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-771/09, from 6 March 2009); 44. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure", which was submitted by the Government (number 400-893/09, since 16 March 2009); 45. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/B, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-894/09, since 16 March 2009); 46. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, submitted by the Government (number 011-980/09, dated 20 March 2009); 47. Proposal for a law confirming the option protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-778/09, from 20 March 2009); 48. Proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the succession of bilateral agreements between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of China concluded between 1955 and 27 April 1992, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-777/09, from 20 March 2009); 49. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for Research, Technological Development and View Activity (2007-2013), which was submitted by the Government (No. 011-1086/09, since 27 March 2009); 50. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents, submitted by the Government (Number 311-1201/09, 1 April 2009); 51. Proposal for a law confirming the Stockholm Convention on Long-term Organic Contaminating Substances, submitted by the Government (Number 501-1202/09, 1 April 2009); 52. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the Petacinci border crossing (Republic of Serbia) - Bank (Republic of Bulgaria), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1411/09, since 10 April 2009); 53. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the opening of the border crossing of Novo Korito (Republic of Serbia) - Salas (Republic of Bulgaria), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1413/09, since 10 April 2009); 54. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the renewal, marking and maintenance of the border line and border markings at the common state border, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1414/09 of 10 April 2009); 55. Proposal for a law on withdrawal of the reserve provided for in the Protocol prohibiting use in the war of suffocating, toxic and similar gases and bacteriological means, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1412/09, from 10 April 2009); 56. Proposal for a law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation, which was submitted by the Government (number 345-1516/09, since 16 April 2009); 57. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-1585/09, from 24 April 2009); 58. Proposal for a Law on Official Statistics, submitted by the Government (No 02-2916/08, since 14 November 2008); 59. Proposal for a census law, households and apartments in 2011, submitted by the Government (number 052-532/09, from 20 February 2009); 60. Proposal for a law banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features, which were submitted by the MPs: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanović, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga (number 011-2470/08, since 10 October 2008); 61. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, which was submitted by a group of 121 MPs (number 345-1777/09, from 12 May 2009); 62. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency who lives and works in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, who submitted the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency (number 345-1772/09, since 12 May 2009); 63. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, submitted by the President of the Republic (number 119-1660/09 of 30 April 2009); 64. Proposal on the termination of the judicial duty, submitted by the Committee on Justice (number 118-1788/09, of 13 May 2009); 65. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's Office, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice (Number 118-1789/09, of 13 May 2009). We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal for the Security of Traffic on Roads (principles) you have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs will be: MP Zoran Shami of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Jasmina Milosevic of the SPS – JS, MP Zoran Ostojić of the LDP parliamentary group, Dragan Stevanović of the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Do the proposing representatives, Mr Ivica Dacic, first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, and Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure want a word? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19051	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the applicable laws governing the area of traffic security are, as you know, obsolete and overcome. They were brought in 1982 and 1988 and, as such, certainly do not reflect the spirit of the time in which we live. The development of road infrastructure and automotive industry, above all, but also of human awareness of the degree of danger present in traffic and the number of road casualties, causes the inevitability of changing the rules of conduct in this area, and hence legal acts. Many norms in existing traffic safety laws are technologically inadmissible. In addition, the rapid development of techniques requires the need for new methods of control and application of new methods, leading to a situation where drivers and vehicles are involved in our traffic pathways that significantly endanger traffic safety. Also, a clearer differentiation of the responsibilities of certain security entities is needed. A bill on traffic safety has been being prepared for six years. The ideas on which the traffic safety system is based are a product of the work of an interresor working group, consisting of representatives of competent ministries, university professors, as well as experts from this area. Through joint work, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure, with respect for the opinions of all other ministries and the professional public, have drawn up the text of the Law on the Safety of Traffic on the Roads that are in front of you today. The proposal for a traffic safety law will regulate traffic safety in a more modern way, in line with European standards. The urgency is that the highest state authorities are being made responsible for the state's security of traffic on the roads. In this respect, it provides for the establishment of a coordination body that would coordinate the work of the departments of transport, home affairs, justice, education, health, work and trade and services. In addition, the Government also forms a Transport Safety Agency, which assumes a number of significant powers, which will be financed from the price of services paid by service users and special compensation for the performance of operations to be carried out by the Agency. Jobs entrusted to the Agency are in line with modern trends in this area and obligations towards international conventions and European regulations, which are only to be carried out by the adoption of this law or by individual ministries under their powers. The government also brings in a five-year National Traffic Safety Strategy, which consists of annual national traffic safety plans. The provisions of the new law potentiate the responsibility of the family, as well as the responsibility of the authorities and organisations that care about children or are competent for education and health in relation to the implementation of traffic education and education measures, all in order to acquire knowledge, skills and positive habits among Serbian citizens for safe participation in traffic. In order to protect pedestrians, an obligation is provided for by the road manager to ensure the existence of sidewalks on the part of the state road passing through the inhabited area. Special zones are also introduced, such as the walking area of slow traffic, 30 zone, the school zone and the environmental protection zone. As one of the most significant newspapers is the introduction of criminal points, which will be given to drivers who do not respect traffic rules to a significant extent by judges for violations. A driver who collects 18 criminal points, as well as a driver who causes a fatal accident or two car accidents with other people's physical injuries, will be considered unconscious, which is why he will be deprived of his driver's license by the police. The driver’s driver’s licence may not be retrieved until it has been demonstrated in the relevant institutions that he is capable of driving the vehicle. However, it should be borne in mind that the Institute of Criminal Points cannot be applied until the new law on infringements, whose application has been delayed indefinitely, has begun to apply. In this context, it is necessary to establish conditions for the application of this law. A significant newspaper is seen in the fact that drivers can expect them to be misrepresented even when they are not directly stopped by the police. In fact, it is predicted that on the basis of a permanent video, a breach can be proved, so that drivers who break traffic rules must consider the fact, or be aware that they can answer even though they were not stopped by a police officer on that day. The paper also looks at the fact that the law introduces a kind of objective responsibility of the vehicle owner into the legal system. Namely, in the event that the excessively achieved video surveillance is recorded, the overrun of the permitted speed, the passing of the vehicle to the red light traffic light, the improper parking and the like, and it is not possible to determine the identity of the driver, the responsibility of the vehicle owner has been introduced, which will significantly affect the change in consciousness and regular behaviour of a large part of the driver's population. For the first time in our legislation, an institute of test driving permits is introduced, which places certain restrictions on driving drivers in the vehicle: a ban on driving between 23:00 and 05:00 hours, a speed management permit of up to 90% of the prescribed speed, an absolute ban on drinking alcohol consumption, a ban on using a telephone even when a driver owns a equipment that allows for no hands, the obligation of adequate marking of a vehicle operated by such a driver, and if it is a minor driver in a vehicle must be kept under control during driving the driver who owns a driver’s license for at least five years. A test driver's license can only be used in the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of this law prohibit all drivers from using phones and other communication devices unless they have or do not use equipment that enables them to make phone calls without enlisting their hands while driving. A similar ban exists for pedestrians, who are forbidden to use a mobile phone and use earphones when crossing over August. Throughout the legal text, provisions laying down the obligations of periodic education of individual categories of drivers are implemented. Thus, various forms of education of learning traffic rules and the possession of vehicle management skills are subject to unconscious drivers, drivers instructors, technical review controllers, professional drivers. At the same time, conditions have been created for candidates to be trained in a more professional way, in the equal competition of legal persons performing this very significant activity. The fines, which will range from 3,000 and 5,000 to 50,000 dinars, will also be harmonised, and a number of violations are envisioned exclusively for prison purposes. It is a matter of certain anti-legal behaviour, where the perpetrators show indifference or the obvious intention to significantly compromise traffic safety. The paper also looks at the fact that the payment of fines on the spot, violations between 3,000 and 5,000 are carried out by giving a payment order by a police officer to the offender, a filled payment form that can be executed in any business bank or post office. We believe that the fact that police officers are not allowed to take money from citizens for the offences committed will affect the reduction of the level of police corruption and contribute to the professional work of police officers. The adoption of this law expects a more significant increase in the level of traffic security. However, in addition to the fact that it is adopted, it is necessary that all entities in charge of the operation of traffic safety consistently and professionally fulfil the obligations set out in this law. The amendment of one regulation, even if it only mirrored the increase in fines, as is the case with the amendments to the existing Law on traffic safety on roads, when significant increases in fines were made in early 2002, certainly affecting the change in the awareness of citizens who act in the same way. For example, during 2001 there was a significant deterioration in traffic safety. In response to such an unfavourable security situation, changes to the Law on traffic safety on roads in early 2002 have led to increased financial penalties, such as in the field of preventive campaigns and increased traffic police activity in the detection and sanctioning of traffic offences, both the number of traffic accidents and the resulting consequences. In the car accidents that occurred in 2001, 1,275 people died, while in 2002 the number of people killed in car accidents, meaning after the Law was changed, was reduced by 421 persons, i.e. 854 people died. The adoption of this law and its consistent application are expected to continuously improve the level of traffic safety, with the aim of reducing the number of people killed in car accidents by 50% by 2012 compared to the number of people killed in 2001. What I'm saying is that 17,000 people have lost their lives since the early 1990s in car accidents. Such expectations can be achieved through significant permanent and active engagement of all entities affecting the state of traffic security, since positive trends are beginning to decline, which clearly indicates that the threatened penalties act only temporarily. In other words, following the adoption of the new law, we can expect an increase in the level of discipline of all traffic participants, and thus improving traffic safety on Serbia's roads over a long period of time. However, such a situation must be maintained and improved only by the consistent application of all the institutions that the law provides and by the active participation of all the entities to which the law gives certain obligations and duties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is not aimed at introducing dragon penalties against drivers, or traffic participants. The aim of this law is to reduce the number of people killed and injured in car accidents, as between 800 and 900 people lose their lives in car accidents annually in Serbia. We are also aware that it is necessary, in that sense, to make all state and social entities involved in the road traffic process responsible. So, from the education system to the quality of the roads and the signalling on the roads, to the very control of traffic by the traffic police. We also want these proposals to eradicate corruption that occasionally occurs by those authorities that need to be dealt with by those responsible for traffic accidents. The aim of this law is that everyone has to understand that it has to stop the practice that when they cross the border and enter other countries, which have much more severe penalties than we do, everyone there respects traffic regulations, and that here in our country, everyone thinks that they can avoid penalties for traffic violations. That is why we have been trying to prepare this law, which has been passed and agreed for many years, to respect the opinion of all the state authorities involved in the road traffic process, but also the professional public, the university professor, while realizing that there are still hundreds of different solutions when only one must be chosen. That is why I call on you MPs to have a very responsible relationship with this law, in the sense that our two ministries, which are authorised by the promoters, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Interior, will talk very professionally and constructively with all parliamentary groups regarding all amendments that have been submitted and that we are ready to accept everything we think will contribute to improving the text of this law. We have already accepted some of these amendments in preparation for this session. What's very important is that the result of this law is really what I said in the end, and that's that there are very few deaths in car accidents. We all need to understand that for one second sometimes it is important and that for one second reckless driving can destroy both their own life and the life of their family and the lives of other people and other families. So, on the one hand, I ask you, and on the other hand, I call that, by participating in the debate on this bill, we all try to get the best text of the bill, adopt it, and, of course, there are no exceptions in the application of this law. It's simple to understand that traffic safety is on the pathways of life interest to every citizen of this country. Both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure are ready to accept any proposals that might be made better than those proposed in this text of the law in these days, when debated on this law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19052	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Home Secretary Mr. Dacic. Do the representatives of the committees want the word, the Transport and Communications Committee, Mr Velimir Ilic or the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Milan Veseinović and Srboljub Zivanovic, who, at the meeting of the Transport and Communications Committee, issue an opinion on the bill, want to explain their own opinion? Mr. Velimir Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19053	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a Committee of Traffic and Communications. I am very sorry that a small number of MPs attended (we barely had a quorum) and that none of the ministers came to that committee. We're very sorry that it ended this way, that during Djurjevdan, it was given an appointment to deliver the amendment, to do it quickly. Many parliamentary groups protested about it. A large number of amendments did not come at all and they were looking for the possibility that through the Committee they could fix something on the law, because they didn't have time to simply, for this short period and during the celebration, the holidays, prepare their amendments and do it the way it was supposed to be done. It bothers me very much that one of these serious laws we did in a hurry, during the holidays, so there was no possibility of talking about it. This is an observation by many parliamentary groups, especially the SRS, which has delivered extremely good amendments to the Committee, but the time has passed and we have not been able to react further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19054	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19055	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as MP of the Serbian Radical Party and member of the Transport and Connections Committee, I believe, since my colleagues and I have made a lot of efforts to analyse this law, it is not necessary to point out that it is neither pro-European nor party, but should be the law of all Serbian citizens. As a longtime educator, a saving man, I've thought a lot about this law. Anyone should not be against this law being passed, given the number of victims the state of Serbia has daily. According to some statistics, we have more victims in traffic than we had in the most difficult conflicts of war in 1990-1995, and in 1998. That data says it's a serious matter and we all need this to be taken extremely seriously and that this law improves amendments as much as possible to improve it. But I am pessimistic in the sense of the application of this law. Above all, the infrastructure at the disposal of the state of Serbia, the travel network, then education, in fact, education of young people, all the way to the traffic police that should apply this law. I think he's going to be really hard to apply. That's why I've singled out my opinion. I believe this law should have been adapted to the time and standard of citizens. These rigorous measures are unsuitable to the standard of Serbian citizens living on the edge of poverty today, and I am afraid there will be no place in prisons to place all those who commit such traffic violations. I'm about to reduce every offense, especially traffic. This should be a great warning to all Serbian citizens, but if the minimum sentence is 3,000-5,000, then 5,000-50,000, and then we see the standard of Serbian citizens, to see who is going to be able to pay that fine, especially as soon as a police officer gives him that certificate with which to carry it out and do it. This is one of my kind of pessimism about law enforcement, and the other is that it's given great autonomy to the police. Namely, a traffic policeman can stop a citizen and withdraw his license, but the same traffic policeman can be found on the re-seat committee and there has the right to veto, in terms of a decision to re-seat for a driver's license. I think it's a conflict of interest and something inappropriate. In the end, to be honest, why must it be an obligation for a member of the commission to be from the traffic police? We have very professional people at the Traffic College, people of the profession, who can be members of the deposit committee for the driver's license. This would relieve the type of corruption, bribery and connection between the driver's examination committee and the application of this law. What is most important and what I want to mention in the end is the education of young people. I think the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Infrastructure should be involved with the Ministry of Education, that in the case of general technical education, there is a greater space for traffic and traffic law study. It is known that for generations who learned the subject 15 or 20 years ago, this matter was represented by more than 40%. This would give us young generations who can go out free after primary education to take a driving test. It's an important factor I want to mention. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19056	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19057	I'm advertising an injury. 27 - the dignity of the congregation. First you hurt your dignity by reuniting so many points of the agenda. What happened yesterday in the congregation will be repeated. The responsibility for this, gentlemen of the ruling majority, is on you. Please, come to your senses and stop doing what you're doing with 60 points of the agenda, which have nothing to do with each other, all of them. In the end, you'll have that thing in the congregation again. Second infringement of Article 27. Mr Dacicu, with all due respect, we are MPs, you are a member of the Government, Minister, Vice President, Deputy, etc. We chose you. Now there's been some practice for us all to sit down. Personally, I think MPs may be able to sit and stand, but when the ministers come, they should stand, whether in that place, be at the pay phone. The fact that you are standing only in front of President Tadic, that is your business, but I really think that in front of MPs in the assembly, because of the Parliament's dignity, ministers must absolutely stand. Whether the Messengers stand or sit, it is up to them. For example, I'll respect that -- who respects me, I'll stand up to him, and who doesn't, I'll sit down with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19058	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the procedure is absolutely respected and is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19059	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have singled out my opinion on the Traffic Committee because I wanted to show a merger between these three very important factors, which are human factors, vehicles and roads. When I was thinking about the human factor, I was thinking about education and the preparation of the drivers themselves in traffic, i.e. that when registering a vehicle, it is necessary for every traffic participant to deliver certain brochures and documentation of accidents happening on the roads, and where the main culprit is the human factor. As far as the vehicle is concerned, I was also talking about a problem that is very important and very present regarding the technical regularity of the vehicle. The technical correctness of the vehicle, i.e. giving certain certificates, must be subject to such control that, as has been done so far, the vehicles are exited from the technical examination and are in fact invalid, because in agreement with the owner or the one doing so, a certain certificate of regularity can be issued and the vehicle is invalid. It's one of the main causes of road accidents. As for the roads, we witness daily large impact holes, as well as the effect of trying to get rid of those impact holes. In most cases, there is only a finding that there are these impact holes, or a sign is put on, so a longer period of time you have to wait to get rid of them, and in fact, such impact holes are major causes of major car accidents. What I was going to say to these is that these blast holes and those responsible for their repairs have never been held accountable for any car accidents. What's very important, what we also have to point out, is that when traffic police are in control, that is, when they control these laws, certain regulations, there are many times in them failures. That's what I brought to the Traffic Committee. You can see many times that a tycoon flies by its jeep where there is a restriction and no one can stop it, and when a peasant passes his car, which is 20 and 25 years old, and when he probably takes his agricultural products to the market, the traffic police stop him when he gets back from the market and he has to give money to the traffic police. For this law, you think it will produce certain results, but I believe that the previous law intended it much better, except that the implementation and application of that law was not adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19060	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before I give you my word, just to remind you that MPs are under obligation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that when they leave the room, they bring with them and the cards, as well as to invite the services to come pick up the cards if there are any of them and the MPs aren't in the O.R. I would also like to remind all MPs of Article 231: "The MP who is on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as during the session. The Members of the People of the 1st Chamber, who are unwarranted when determining the quorum or during work at the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of the Parliament at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Please keep these two reminders in mind for all of us. I'm asking the service to come and get the cards of those MPs who aren't here. Mr. Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19061	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Serbia and Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see how the Democratic Party and its coalition partners behave. They've had a chance to see it since 2001, and it continues day and day. You voted from Thessaloniki, you voted from Bodrum, and what is particularly important, whenever you get in trouble, you solve that problem by breaking the law. It is particularly interesting that you do not even look to the whole Serbian public to brutally violate the Rules of Procedure. This was shown by sessions where you had no quorum, thanks to MPs leaving their MPs' IDs in these MPs' units, allowing them to pass the vote and thus violate the Rules of Procedure. What do you do when Serbia doesn't look at you? This was best shown in the privatisation process, when you completely robbed Serbia. Few were yesterday, during the vote, MPs of the ruling majority broke the Rules of Procedure, but you are doing so today. I took advantage of the opportunity and took pictures of the MP's card, and there were no MPs. It shows the true face of the Democratic Party and its coalition partners. This is the problem Serbia is facing, and the problem can only be solved in new elections, that citizens realize they have a problem with people who do not hesitate to do all that is useful to them at the moment. Whether to violate the Rules of Procedure, whether to violate the Constitution, the law (President: It has been two minutes, Mr Todorovic). That doesn't interest you at all. I'm sure an adequate decision will be made in the election...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19062	Thank you. There are no, of course, injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You haven't advertised any members. "The MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and it is immediately after the injury has been done." So you didn't stick to Article 1, Article 100. I noticed the remark you made and invited the services to do their job. Do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please sign in. Mr. Free Maraš has a word. Mr. Marash, have you called the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19063	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, member of 104 - dignity of the Assembly. Madam President, it is absolutely irresponsible and unserious to threaten us with Article 231, or to ask us, as opposition, to provide you with a quorum. It's extremely unserious and irresponsible. Yesterday and the day before, all of Serbia could see what it looked like. Regardless of the seriousness and quality of the President of the Administrative Board and Mr Ristic, who tried to justify what cannot be justified, to transfer responsibility to the MP who tried, out of his power, to point to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, who recorded what was going on in this assembly hall, and also to citizens who could see the MPs getting up, walking, and that the vote was constantly taking place with the same number, or 127 when the SRS passed cards. It is extremely unserious that you expect us to provide you with a quorum. You gave a break this morning under the pretext that a committee is in progress, so MPs can't come. You can't get together, and it's better if you don't get together, because the way we do really offends the dignity of this congregation. I have to remind you, just one more second, gentlemen of the DS, you've been boycotting parliament in that building for two years, and you've been getting paid. You're the last person in this room who can give someone a lecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19064	Mrs. Jasmina Milosevic has a word. Please, I beg your turn. Mr. Todorovic, please be quiet, don't disturb. The word is first Mrs Jasmina Milosevic, and then Mr Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19065	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the necessity of the adoption of a new traffic safety law is not only seen by the previous law of the last century. That old law wasn't bad, but in those 20 and change in technical and technological terms, there were major changes in traffic at all. First, the vehicles changed, and so did their performances. This, again, has also caused a change in driver behavior and even the behavior of all traffic users. Then, we have cell phones, we have roller skaters that we didn't have, skates, GPSs, not to mention other music devices that showed up in the meantime. All this pointed out is that it's time to do it and come up with a new traffic safety law, which, of course, is primarily the primary goal of reducing the number of car accidents we have. The sense of responsibility of traffic participants has sometimes not changed today, essentially speaking. Today, however, we have a moment where drivers often rely easily on a good and quality vehicle or on their experience. There's one more thing I'd like to draw attention to the colleagues who are currently talking, they may not be interested in security. We're in this house with a lot of laws. Not every citizen is obliged to know all these laws, but here we have a law concerning each of us. We're all involved in traffic, whether as drivers, or as pedestrians, or as passengers. That's why I think this is one of the laws that should, in the large part, be known to the greatest part of our population. I would also like to point out that I know that this law has been done by people who are exponents of the profession, representatives of all relevant ministries, and education and health and infrastructure and trade and home affairs, so I am sure that a good bill is in front of us. What does traffic security really mean, and what does it represent? In engineering terms, the traffic safety system has its own subsystems, which make up man, vehicle and road. A man himself, as a traffic participant, is forced to make decisions of minor or greater importance during his driving. Vehicles, as a means of transport with different train-dynamic characteristics, represent another component of safety and direct control of this means. And of course, the road and the environment, like the space where traffic takes place and that dictates the conditions and conditions under which man must act. It is a successful and good transport security system in which these three subsystems are in complete harmony, and in a situation of disharmonicity, there are consequences that are very devastating in human lives. Car accidents represent a huge and difficult measurable loss for society. In order not to read the statistics now, she says that the cause of most accidents, almost 80% of the victims, is a human factor. Those 20% are vehicles or current road changes. Some material damage is over 900m euros a year, and this immeasurable damage is seen in human lives. Since I know that there was a problem with this law that was not sufficiently defined responsibility, we have, in fact, an article 1 that defines exactly what is whose responsibility, where responsibility and pathways are seen, which is being turned to, in terms of the security of traffic itself. The main objective of this law is certainly to reduce the number of accidents on the roads. In order to achieve this, we have clearly defined the Body of Coordination and the Agency for the Security of Transport to the 8th and 9th and 11th, and that we will finally have one constant strategy, which, regardless of who is the minister and who is in the ministry, will be upgraded for years. This strategy, as the ultimate goal, wants to achieve awareness of responsibility in traffic, regardless of whether we are pedestrians, drivers or passengers. What's new, what we're bringing into line with this new law, is defined by Article 28, which clearly points to a ban on the use of mobile phones, which are also major causes of accidents and deconcentration of drivers themselves. This is one of the moves that will eliminate all the bad habits we have in traffic. I want to commend, because for the first time in this law, we define intelligent transport systems, which the gentlemen don't know, and maybe they'd know something if they listened a little bit better. Namely, intelligent transport systems represent the so-called “intelligent transport systems”. smart traffic signs, characters with confidential content, managed from the relevant centre and satellite listed, or changed... I'd like to ask the president. I'm really distracted. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, I would ask you to be quiet. You're distracting Mrs. Milosevic, she can't speak. ) So, intelligent transport systems, as something that is already largely in developed countries, I hope they will be with us, are mentioned by this law. The only thing I can say is, maybe we could have made a commitment in bigger cities, maybe like us in Belgrade on the streets of Prince Milos and Bulevaru, but it's a frequency roadway, so it might still be mandatory for them to have some kind of vision, like the possibilities at that point. As far as this law is concerned, let me also commend that the categories of drivers are clearly defined, which finally had to, because there is actually no universal traffic permit that allows you to drive everything from truck to plane. That's really good. The epochal newspaper refers to penalty points and punishments, especially so-called "criminal" newspapers. Violent driving. As far as these criminal points are concerned, citizens should be asked a little bit more closely, so that they do not deem that they will be able to punish everyone for anything, which, of course, is not true. It's a good thing this criminal policy doubles the punishments of people who commit crimes in the presence of a minor child. We've seen more than once that people, holding a little kid by the hand, running across the street or driving a child in their laps in the front seat or together behind the wheel on Brank's bridge and other cars. We need to be aware that our non-awareness in traffic is devastating not only for us, but for the rest of us in traffic. I want to touch the solutions you've made, especially criminal, and it's about stationary traffic, because our mentality habit is to park the vehicle right where we're going, whether it's allowed or not. Stationary traffic is known that if a man does not park the vehicle where it is intended, he is extremely traumatic and aggressive, not only in the traffic itself and his frequency, according to his flow, speed and safety, but he is extremely traumatic by foot. We teach kids to cross the street where the pedestrian crossing is, and often you can't even see from parked vehicles. It is therefore very good that this law strengthens this criminal policy, which will also punish the lack of awareness of traffic in this regard in an adequate manner. For the end, I just want to say it again - we're all involved in traffic. Our conscience and safe conduct protects not only us, but other people and other lives. Once again, I would like to commend the bill on behalf of the SPS-JS. I want to say that our parliamentary group, for the reason that we need this law, which is good, that protects both us and all of our citizens, in the voting day, will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19066	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go first, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19067	First, I would ask a question – how can an MP report to the Rules of Procedure? I used that instruction we received, I answered the Rules of Procedure before Mrs. Milosevic got the word, and I didn't get the word. It seems that in this parliament, there must continue the tactics of waving the Rules of Procedure and raising the peace in order to get word on the Rules of Procedure. Obviously this manual doesn't work. I'd point to an injury. Paragraphs 27 and 101, and I would refer to the ominous and casual interpretation of Article 231. Namely, attending the Assembly and giving the quorum are not the same and matching categories. Anyone who's met with a political system theory, who's had any contact with legal science, knows there's some kind of a different explanation in constitutional law. I am very sorry that in public theft you brought such a constitution which is contrary to yourself, and then the thennists had a hearing about what the opposition resents, so you brought a Rules of Procedure that is contrary to such a radical constitution. I am sorry that both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are the means to bring this parliament down to the lowest possible level and to serve as an excuse for the state's bad state. I am very sorry that MPs of the ruling coalition have put their mandates in the service of something that does not honor any parliament in the world. I used to end my announcement with "thank you for your attention," now I'm gonna end up with "a shame on you."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19068	There's no damage to the procedure. Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19069	Article 103(3) and Article 27 Madam President, during my speech, an offensive word, noise, and so on came from the ranks of the DS parliamentary group. I will remind you that during the speech of the MPs and other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in other ways, etc. while endangering freedom of speech. I can accept that you haven't heard that since I saw you listening very carefully, but you have your associates who could hear something like that. Madam President, if I have said something that is not true, please those who have been telling me what it is that is not true – whether it is a two-year time period, a year and a half, okay. Mr. Marko Djurisic is nosing his head. I hope he answers me with the same dignity as I answer him. There's one more thing I wanted to say. The thing is, it's not us against you, it's against these stupid laws, which you're making unconditionally, and then you're asking us to give you a quorum. Excuse me, you took responsibility in this country, you run the government, you secure the quorum, don't ask us to. Mr. Rangelovic, professor and doctor of legal science, has just explained the difference. Gentlemen of the DSS, you don't have to applaud when I speak, because you've been using the same things as DS, you've organised a vote, or a referendum for the Constitution for two days, and you've stolen in a senseless manner, together. So there's no need to applaud, the same things you did as they did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19070	I ask all MPs to take care of the dignity of the congregation and to respect all MPs, especially speakers, and not to disturb them. (The Belief of Radeta, from the post: The president should take a little care of the Parliament's dignity. Don't throw it away, Mrs. Radeta. I'll give you a warning if that happens again. Mr. Djurishic Marko, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19071	I reacted to the testimony of my colleagues, Marash, because he was false. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, MPs should be telling the truth here. You spoke of a time when DS MPs did not participate in parliament's work, between 2006 and half of 2007. Ask your colleague who sits in front of you what DS MPs were then doing with their incomes in the Assembly. It's quite true that at that time we gave our incomes to charity. There's paperwork for that, ask your colleague. As for the quorum, it is not required of the opposition MPs to provide it. The previous three days of the majority party provided a sufficient number of MPs here to vote 49 points of the agenda, with more than 3,000 amendments. As much as it cost the citizens of Serbia, we could hear the previous days. Now we have 69 points on the agenda, I agree that it is a lot, but you will agree that at the beginning of the term of office, your parliamentary group called on these congregations to respond and asked for more effective work to be introduced. We found a way that allowed us to adopt a large number of laws and get out of the blockade that we were in at the end of 2008. Finally, the President of the Assembly did not ask you to give the quorum, but to respect the same rules of procedure that you have reached out to, which does not speak of how MPs of the majority or minority should behave in this room, but how MPs should behave, all 250 MPs. Please take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19072	Mr. Free Marash. According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19073	This is a replica. I've been misread, Mr. Djurishic. You obviously didn't understand me very well. I didn't say how you spent the money. I fully understand and respect that if you were in a permanent working relationship with the Serbian Parliament, when you didn't come to the meetings, you were getting paid and giving for humanitarian purposes. I respect that, but I did not say it as a finding in which way you spent the funds, but I stated as a finding that, although you were in a working relationship, you received a neat salary, so you were registered in the Assembly. And where you sent that money, that's your goodwill. I respect if you've been giving for humanitarian purposes, but the point is, you've been doing the same thing for a year and a half. So you didn't come to the congregation even though you were in a permanent working relationship, and you were getting paid. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Djurishic. I think there's a difference, and I hope you understand now what I'm saying. So I'm not interested in the way the steppers were spent, I'm interested in you getting paid for not coming to the assembly. I know you know very well, both you and your colleagues, parliamentary life, both in Serbia and in all other countries. Obstruction is a legitimate mode of action, especially in the Assembly. It is much better for political action to take place in the Assembly than in the streets. The way you run this congregation and the way you run the country, it slowly wants to transfer political life, that is, all events, to the street. I think that's the last thing we need. The way you lead, Madam President, not just you, I mean the ruling majority, this assembly, this state, it's a big problem, and it's possible that they're going to transfer problems to the street, which is the last thing we all want. We don't want, as an opposition, to participate in responsibility, because you don't want to share it with us. You provide for the majority yourself, you bring those laws that you think will bring well-being to the citizens, but I'm sure, and you know it, that citizens know where these laws and policies lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19074	No more ground for replicas. Mr. Velimir Ilic answered, according to the Rules of Procedure, first of all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19075	I think the Rules of Procedure are hurt because he's asking us to do something that's been going through the media these days, Mr. President of the Administrative Board, to make a quorum, which was never there. Our presence is yes, but not quorum, to insert the card etc. You can't ask the opposition to do that. I would ask you, when you run sessions that are very important, very important, to enable order in the O.R. There's a general mess in the back here. No one can hear anyone. This is where he's making noise. These gentlemen, exactly what Marash said, they're making noises, cursing everything in order. We don't hear what the minister is saying. We haven't heard a word from Mr. Dacic at all, and we wanted to hear it. Therefore, in this chaos, in this ambience that happens here, where anyone enters whenever they vote, what is done is really not the conditions for the normal work of the Serbian parliament. This is a disgrace to all of us. Please allow a solid working conditions here. If you can't speak from the point of view, you'll have to re-establish the ability to report from the pay phone so we can follow. The lady was talking, and we didn't hear anything. What's more, we haven't even seen her. She just wasn't even on the screen, so we could track her. TV can be monitored, but we in the O.R. have no review of the discussions held here, and very important decisions are made. Once again, I ask you to provide working conditions. These devices aren't working. I put a card in this one, and nothing, I have to move on to the next to answer the word. So, look what's wrong here, put this in order and let's be one serious parliament. Because I repeat, we make very important laws. The other thing is, it's a shame to unite these agenda points, which have nothing to do with each other. If it needs to be cut short, let's make a deal. Here, you suggested that the parliamentary group vote on all amendments once, just once to vote... (President: It's been two minutes, Mr. Ilic, bring the end. If that means anything to you, give us one day to bring you all these laws and be free.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19076	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Natasa Micic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19077	Madam Chairman, I'm actually using the right to a replica, because I think Mr. Marko Djurisic was thinking of me when he said - a colleague sitting in front of Maras. I guess it was hard for him to say my name, I guess. In any case, Mr Djurisic began his debate with the words that it was the duty of the MP to tell the truth and in the first following sentence he spoke the lie, which is that I know that the MP club DS had the money, salaries and diaries that he had received at the time when he boycotted parliament and did not participate in the work. As proof that I can't know about it (I didn't know it, I couldn't know it) I would only remind myself of the fact that I left the DS Parliament Club as an MP for the Civil Union of Serbia. So, I absolutely don't know (in the end, it was your free will) whether you were actually giving money for charity. The second thing I want to point out is that LDP participates in the quorum every time, and in this way we help not the ruling majority, but the public, social interest of this country. Every time we voted for those laws that in any way contributed to the country's progress and development. Without LDP, you would not have passed a passport law, nor anti-discrimination law, nor many other laws that, because of the incompetent majority, you would have actually failed to adopt. In the end, as Bodrum and Thessaloniki were often mentioned here today, so also those affairs, which were abuses and found their epilogue in court, were actually due to the opposition's failure to participate at the time. But today it's so harmless in relation to time. ) to what you're doing. Like yesterday. (President: I thank you. ) It does not matter whether it is an MP or an MP in Bodrum or a toilet, the fact is that MPs did not participate in yesterday's work and quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19078	I ask you to return to the agenda, to break both the replicas and all the comments that do not concern the very significant points of the agenda, which we have just entered. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, Advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is Madam President, under Rule 31. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the duties of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and concerning what Mr Ilic spoke of. Let's explain, in accordance with the procedure and with such a radical Rules of Procedure, the MPs who are their rights in the House of the National Assembly. The SRS parliamentary group is most wirelessly away from the National Assembly session, with the will of Boris Tadic's regime. We're back now. You have seen, Madam President, that certain SRS MPs cannot sit in their seats, like Mr. Suleiman Spaho, who has stopped two hours since the beginning of the session. Now we need to give Mr. Ilic and the other MPs an explanation. This Rules of Procedure, which promotes all bells, first of all, the chairman of the Administrative Board of Nenad Konstantinovic, who has since this morning started threatening the MPs, from the RTS morning programme, everywhere and in every place, does not regulate that the MP only appears and speaks from the scene. This stage or payphone here is in office and, Mr. Ilic, you can, since you've expressed a moment ago interference, as well as any MP of any party, use and speak from the National Assembly's pay phone. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say, because Konstantinović, smartly, Bosko Ristic and similar, those who are instructed by Boris Tadic, did not realize to write – you must speak to the House of the National Assembly from that place. They came up with a scheme to get Serbian radicals kicked out of the seats they've been sitting in since 1992. Because you didn't even know where the House of the National Assembly was, some of you didn't even know where Belgrade was, in general, when Vojislav Seselj was sitting here with Serbian radicals. Therefore, Madam President, (President: Time) I suggest you, and also my colleague Popovic as vice president, that we explain nicely to our colleagues that they can speak from the speakers, because it is obvious that (President: I thank you). They're in trouble. So let's get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19080	The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19081	Madam President, gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this law has been waiting for the LDP since this summer. We suggested a version somewhere in September. Unfortunately, what we have received is nowhere near that version, which experts have done. The very fact that this traffic safety law was stolen from the then Ministry of Infrastructure or for capital investments by the then Minister of the Interior (not you, Mr Dacic, but your predecessor), speaks of the intention to retain some monopolies and not to do what needs to be done now that we are passing a new law. It certainly changes both vehicles and circumstances and materials, etc., much faster than this law is passed, I remind you that this law is 21 years old, but the fact that it changes after 21 years had to lead to more serious access, rather than hiding behind this law the preservation of these interests. We'll all agree that traffic security and traffic is not good. Last summer we had a monster on our roads, and she continued. But the fact, too, that all this time, from communism, the police had a monopoly in this area, and she wrote the law and she proposed law and implemented law and established and supervised schoolwork, gave driving licenses, etc., and we have a poor state of security. That means the way it was done was wrong. This was precisely the opportunity for Serbia to step up to something modern, towards something that is world and European practice, to have police in charge of law enforcement only, and not for a whole set of areas that regulate traffic, from opening, controlling work, prescribing conditions and closing auto-schools, by having a monopoly and giving consent to technical checks, by having cops decide who knows how to drive and who doesn't know, until they're punished. Unfortunately, this law will not lead to a better traffic security situation, and if adopted in this form very quickly, it will have to change. He's, above all, even vague. Here's an example. This law defines traffic for the first time. Traffic is, imagine, the movement of vehicles and faces on roads whose behavior is arranged for its safe and uninterrupted setting. Let's go aside for not knowing what is meant and what is this sentence, but in any case, according to this law, a vehicle that does not move is not in traffic, a driver sitting in a vehicle is not in traffic. It's nonsense, but it's proof that it was done by people who had not evil intentions, but by interest, and here it's simply about interests. Repressive is the law. From our point of view, this law really threatens some basic civil rights. We'll even say it's police, but not in that peorative sense, or because it's proposed by the police minister, although it should be proposed by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, but it's been taken away, I said, even under that government, and you're probably never allowed to put the law out of the MUP. Because, in the end, tens of millions of euros are being turned in the business annually, and the police, which, as in all communist countries, have been in play for decades, are probably not willing to give it up as easily. Otherwise, believe me, in most countries a police officer has nothing to do with a driving test. It's not a police officer's job, an officer authorized to use force, to determine who knows how to drive or doesn't know, because a cop drives by doing another job, as a pizza delivery man drives by delivering pizza, so no one cleverly proposes that a pizza delivery guy sits on the board and assesses who can drive. Of course, one whose job is driving, like a cab driver, can say much better who can drive and who can't drive. But it's not the essence of this law, and it's a fundamental, general grudge, that people learn to drive, to learn what safe driving is. This law continues the practice that exists for decades in this country -- people here will learn to pass a driving test, but they won't know how to drive. And that's what this law has had the opportunity to break down by forming an agency that will not be influenced by the police, which will license those who decide and determine who can drive. One deregulation, which would have gone from the police to the agency, we could say that we reformed this area. This law, unfortunately, shows in the best way that you who are in the words for modern Serbia, for European Serbia, I am talking about you in the majority, are not able to apply something like that specifically in practice. This law blames all the blame, for any accident, on the driver, and completely amnests both the police and the tolls and all those who are also responsible. It's always gonna be the driver's fault. Even if, for example, he drives in accordance with regulations, in accordance with the speed allowed, and he comes across a hole in the road that he's guilty of, he'll be, by this law, guilty driver again. Why? Because, well, he didn't adjust his driving conditions. This would be avoided if something that exists in all European countries was accepted, which is the principle of mutual trust. Can't a driver who respects regulations to assume that someone else won't do his job, a cop or a toll, that there'll be a hole in the road. You've loaded everything here on the driver. I am not surprised that the principle of mutual trust has not entered, because you have a legal adviser named Škulić, who will obviously overshadow the glory of that private President of the Constitutional Court, Vojislav Kostunica, Slobodan Vučetic, or some state lawyers. But the principle of mutual trust is normal to exist. It can't always be the driver's fault. This law, unfortunately, knocks it down. The police have too much authority, and that's why I'm saying that this is essentially police law. There are a lot of discretionary powers, which no one can control, and law writers, apparently from the police, have made an effort not to control themselves. For example, the use of anti-radar devices is prohibited. Why is it forbidden? The anti-radar device gives the driver the ability to control if the cop actually recorded it with a radar, nothing more. You know how many times the police try to charge the fine without firing the radar. This way, the driver will have proof that he is, in fact, inexplicably stopped and that no speed measurement has been attempted. There are fundamental misunderstandings among those who wrote the law or tried to keep that monopoly. It's still driving down to training, like it's some kind of skill to change speeds and work with leg commands. There is no law on education, and education means transfer of knowledge and at least education. There's even the impression that the writers of the law wanted to either have a intention or that their wish would be that people don't know how to drive, that people don't learn to drive, that they're able to charge them fines. That's where we get the money. About a billion euros is the total damage caused by traffic accidents in the state of Serbia annually. Every third hospital day has to do with traffic, 25m to 40m euros is charged annually from penalties in Serbia. All that money's been going to the police so far. Now it is likely that 25% will go to the funding of the agency to be established, and I hope that it will be established, and 75% of the money, which will probably be over 50m euros a year now, will go to the police. Here we come to another absurdity which this law establishes, which is that traffic signs can be set without a traffic study and that the police still have that authority to order the passengers to set traffic signs. I'm predicting, and I'd like my life to be denied, that the chicaning of drivers with senseless signals, when I say that I mean too long lines where they don't belong, I mean the low speed limits of 30, 40 km where they don't belong, will multiply after the adoption of this law, precisely because police keep the monopoly in determining where the sign is being put, and that it will be conditionally said, ways to charge that kind of fund that most uses the police. I think even if some of the things you said weren't standing, frankly. Vehicle surveillance obligations are avoided. It literally minimises and knocks down the automatic surveillance system. What do you need a camera to record some kind of vehicle in violation when the owner of the vehicle says that he didn't drive that vehicle, that he doesn't remember who he gave it to, and therefore he'll be free of responsibility? I don't think even the police behind this law are responsible for functioning, like in all European countries, the automatic surveillance system. Because, simply, the automatic surveillance system is objective -- there's a vehicle, there's a plate, there's a breach -- and there's no more possibility of a settlement, agreements, etc. For the end (I'll leave some time, when I see how the other parliamentary groups speak), the system of criminal points, as you suggested, doesn't exist anywhere. You didn't predict at all that people, when they get the penalty points, do something, learn something, go to some classes. Then you didn't predict that people, i.e. Drivers, when they behave in accordance with regulations and have some criminal points, take away the penalty points, to reduce them. No, you've knocked on 18 and we're getting permission, so we're going to take some classes or retraining, as if your goal is to get it to them as soon as possible. But that's not the point, there's not a system that only by repression and punishment can make people change, it's a parallel process. Penalties exist for those who won't, can't or can't learn. In all countries, 3% of citizens can't drive, and they shouldn't have a license because nothing's worth it, but here, unfortunately, it's only repression. On the other hand, why wouldn't criminal record be a public document? Do you know how many possible abuses exist potentially when it's not a public document? When I can't control my colleague, Shormaz, and he controls me. Then it'll depend on who has better connections with the guy who makes the points. All in all, there's a lot of money here in the game. He's still trying to keep the monopoly on that money. He won't lead to repairing the traffic situation. You know the police haven't punished for belts in two years. I predict, Mr. Minister, that after the adoption of this law, the police will start punishing the belts, six months we'll all be wearing seat belts, you'll show that 30% less dead during the six months, and you'll attribute it to this law. And basically, the law is bad, and the result of how many people have been killed over the past two years because the police don't punish the souls of those who have made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19082	Thank you. Mr. Minister wanted to speak, but it's 6:00 p.m., we haven't extended the work for today. But one minute we can. We've got another minute and a half, up to two. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19083	I respected Mr. Ostojić's proposal. I was just watching how you were acting, so I thought you should. Anyway, I think it's really good to talk standing up. The debate will continue. Minister Mrkonjic and I are authorized on behalf of the Government, so we will be here during the debate both in principle and in particular, either him or me, but I just want to say one sentence, you know. So far, no single dinar has gone to the police since the money for traffic offences, it went to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is now scheduled for 30% to go to local self-government, and 70% to go to Serbia's budget, i.e. the working body deploys three quarters of those 70%, to go to the police, and the rest to the Traffic Safety Agency, etc. You made some remarks, which could be heard from one section of the expert public at the time of this debate. I just want to tell you that from that moment on, when you adopted it and suggested it, there has been a change in this legal text, so some of these things you're talking about are already in the legal proposal, such as a proposal for forming a Traffic Safety Agency. I just want to add this. This has been discussed for a long time, for six years, this is a joint proposal from the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Interior, the professor of the university, etc., but it is impossible that every professor or any association that deals with this will be satisfied with the very text of the law. But, independently of this procedure, I'm going to suggest that we use the business opportunity to propose between the principle debate and the vote, possibly, the committees in charge, if you have a solution that you think is right. This isn't a political question, so I'm sorry, I don't want to comment on all this. And otherwise, the number of people killed on the roads compared to 2001 has been reduced, but our goal is to do everything we can to reduce the number of victims, reduce the number of traffic accidents, make social and state entities responsible and eradicate corruption. And the role of the police in all this is certainly not and will not be to be a lecturer and judge, because police don't give these criminal points, the police don't withdraw their licenses, it's done by judges for violations, and in this case, the police only have that role in traffic control. I'm sorry I may have lasted a few minutes, but it's only because we wouldn't be left without an answer. So we're absolutely open. And by the way, we've been delayed for a few months to send this to parliament, wanting to hear all the objections that can be heard in public. But if you have many different suggestions, you have to define yourself for one, not all can be satisfied. I think the essence of the law is good, that the law is necessary, and that is why I would like to invite you all to make all the proposals and, in the end, in the interest of ordinary citizens, we are voting for this bill. I thank you and apologize again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-13-0.u19084	Thank you. We will continue our work, gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
