ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32963	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are rules of procedure for the work of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the Rules of Procedure during today's session, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament about our guests at the gallery. So, honourable MPs, let me inform you that part of today's session, beginning at 10.00 hours, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, will be followed by 24 of our guests, persons with disabilities, and that: Dragan Vukasinović, Mirjana Vukasinović, Marina Bančić, Gorana Gordić, Momcilo Stanojević, Robert Česnovar, Vesna Petrovic, Mirko Gojić, Nenad Stankovic, Novak Lazendić, Ljubanka Borisoski, Daniela Ivančević, Ivanka Jovanovic, Biljana Dučić, Miroslava Stojković-Milosevic, Mihajlo Pajević, Žarko Pantić, Ljupka Mihajlovska, Aleksandar Mršević, Branka Pešić, Dragica Hajstamel, Ivana Maliković, Slobodana Radisavljevic and Mikica Budimirović. We welcome you to your house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to remind all of us that today, December 3rd, an international day of people with disabilities, established by the UN in 1992, is being marked. [[Applause]] Today is the day when we are all bound to remember this UN decision in some way, but it is one of 365 days, to remember that people with disabilities are the same as everyone else and that we live together, wanting to help each other to make the quality of our daily life as much as possible. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities on May 13th and 29th, whose provisions are beginning to apply on 21 May 2010. It is our role to help change the best way in which people with disabilities live in our country, because it is the obligation of each employer to hire a certain number of people with disabilities, and the same number of persons with employment. Appreciateing the importance of resolving the issue of equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market, by hosting this visit the National Assembly wants to appeal to raise the highest civil awareness of the necessity of demarginalisation of persons with disabilities and their equal inclusion in all segments of social life. Thank you again for monitoring our work during today's session. On Tuesdays and Thursdays only, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate of the National Assembly, the session shall be defined by Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which regulates - demand for information and explanations on the basis of its position 2. So, Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: The National Assembly shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, and which it shall need to exercise the functions of the National Assembly, except at the meeting of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The river has a folk MP Nikola Krpic, so the MP Rada Obradovic, and the MP Dragan Todorovic and Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. I'm asking you, People's Parliament, to press the key one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32964	The Honorable Chairman, I have repeatedly raised this question, so here and now, not wanting to hurt anyone. I don't think the Health Protection Act is concerned in the Christian area. When I say that, it's a dental service in that part. For the reason that the Ministry has cooperated on this problem, I have no objections to the work of the minister himself, but I believe that someone from the local self-government of Mr. Minister, the respected Mr. Milosavljevic, is probably giving him some other information that is not credible and accurate. What do I want to say? The Health Protection Act makes it clear that children up to 14 years of age in primary education, students up to 25 years of age also have the right to dental health care. In this part there are three infirmarys: one in the populated town of Studenica, one in the school in the mouth and the third in the health station Usce. The last time in May when I wanted to get an answer about why it wasn't done, there was an announcement that the doctor was on maternity leave and that in four months he would be at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32965	The word has an MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today the Assembly will be working, we will discuss some important laws. The laws should serve to impose order and regulate the situation in some area, and obligations, deadlines, whatever comes from those laws should be binding on both the state authorities and all citizens of this country in the areas governed by those laws. Once again, I remind you that the budget of the Assembly must be adopted within 12 days. By 15 December, it is an obligation for the Serbian Parliament to adopt the 2010 budget. It is necessary to adopt the 2008 final budget account before the budget and to discuss the State Auditing Institution's report. It is good news that one of the last countries in Europe, Serbia, received a state audit and that the state audit first came out with one such report. We heard from the media that a few days ago the government unanimously adopted the budget, although there are 12 days left to discuss this important matter, a matter of which all Serbian citizens will live and that will affect the lives of all citizens of Serbia in the coming and coming years, we still do not have that text. The explanation is to wait for technical alignment. We'll be patient and see when it comes. The other thing is the final bill that was withdrawn from the procedure. The finance ministry's website again says there are some technical problems and will be returned to the procedure. When he gets back, I don't know. I am taking this opportunity to give notice to the Ministry of Finance, as it says on the site – since the State Auditor's report came after the final budget account was already in the assembly procedure, so according to our laws, the state audit can only revise the laws that are in the procedure. Therefore, there was no other way and some other time for the whole thing to be revised before the law came into practice. There's one more thing that's not being taken care of. I'm asking the Ministry of Finance to answer as well. A long-published Law on the Budgetary System, which was adopted several months ago, introduces a consolidated report by the Republic of Serbia. Since public spending in Serbia is more than 40% of GDP, it is the government's obligation to make a consolidated report, which includes final accounts of compulsory social security organisations, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, final accounts of municipalities, autonomous provinces, cities and under the Law on the Budgetary System, the report of the sea, in Article 78, is specified that the government should deliver to the Assembly by 1 November. So it's not the final budget account, it's the consolidated budget report. We haven't received that report yet and the question is how seriously are we going to conduct a budget debate? I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. In response to one of our previous issues concerning the economic policy of the budget and all these issues, the government has provided us with an answer within the prescribed period and among other things in the last paragraph of this answer is said - the law on the budgetary system as a system law cannot cover all cases, there are cases that are not covered. It says the following - circumstances in which the state is currently in the spirit of the law, and in order to achieve budgetary objectives, cannot be characterised as non-compliance with deadlines. Now we don't understand what these circumstances are in which the state is currently in place. When we look at the newspaper, when we look at the statements, all the officials say that everything is in the best order, and then we are told that because of the circumstances in which the state is located, the budget cannot be made, the final bill cannot arrive and everything that is legally binding cannot be done. The DSS parliamentary group asks the Prime Minister to explain to us the circumstances in which the state is located, which the MPs of the Serbian Parliament do not know exist?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32967	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32968	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, about a month and a half ago, on October 22nd, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, precisely on some issues related to the spending of budget funds raised a question of a political contest. That's when I showed it to you, here, and let me show it to you again. It simply lists so many things that should be fulfilled by the assistant secretary of the National Assembly, at the very least as if the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences were elected. I then suggested that this ad only had no picture of a man to be accepted as assistant secretary of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I didn't mention the name and the name of that man because at the time there was only a reasonable doubt that the competition was called for him, but today after the meeting of the Administrative Board it's an undeniable fact. Mr Milivove Vicentijevic was elected assistant secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, I'm going to ask a few questions when it comes to this choice. I also set up on the Administrative Board, and unfortunately I couldn't finish, because members of the Administrative Board had to leave the board's session to give the quorum here, so they would then return to the meeting of the Administrative Committee to vote on the election of Milivoje Vicentijevic as assistant secretary. It is, by the way, a standard thing when it comes to quorum, you are unable to provide it because the Assembly is just a random job for you, you come here to vote, to give the quorum, and then the lawyers in courts, these remain where they work, where they earn money, and the Assembly absolutely doesn't interest you. It is interesting to look at some things and facts regarding the employment of Milivov Vicentijevic as assistant secretary of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I already told you that Milivove Vicentijevic is already employed in the National Assembly at the job of advisor secretaries against the Labour Systematization Regulation, because a counselor needs a legal or other college of social direction, and Mr. Vicentijevic has graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. I'm looking for an answer - how is it possible to violate the Labour Systematization Regulation? It's said in this solution, I'm also asking for an answer, to base a working relationship indefinitely until the worker returns from his absence. I'm looking for the name and last name of the workers, as well as the reason why she's away. Also, I remind you that Milivove Vicentijevic received his severance in 2003 and I ask that I be provided with an answer as to how much Milivove Vicentijevic received as a severance in 2003. It is said to be 30,000 euros. It has now changed the systematization of the conditions of the competition, so it is stated in the competition, and it is the first time since 30-40 years since the Assembly, that a man who does not have a Faculty of Law or the faculty of another social direction can be admitted to this place. Also, I ask the question - is it true that Milivove Vicentijevic does not have a state exam, and it is under the government's regulation to conduct an internal and public competition that only people with a state exam can be admitted to these jobs? What's interesting is Mr. Vicentijevic's activity. Since I do not have much time, he again, although during the previous period from 2000 to 2003 he conducted a reconstruction of the Assembly, then the Federal Assembly, and many illegalities were done on that occasion, including Ubpok's research, he re-emerged the work and asked for an answer to be delivered to me - the report of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32969	Five minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32970	I'm looking for a notice, and I want to give information at the same time and on one issue that is of paramount importance, I'd say, first of all, to the people of Leskovec, but I also think it's a question that we all need to think about, because it can potentially happen in all parts of our country. I request information from the RRA, and therefore in some way within our Rules of Procedure and the President of the Assembly, because it is an independent body, therefore, a body not controlled by the Government. What's this about? Three weeks ago, in Leskovac, an SSB cable operator shut down all local TV stations. So there's still an eye somewhere, according to our estimates, that's an estimated 80,000 viewers are denied the information they can provide. It's about TV Leskovac, TV Klisura, TV Four S, TV Vlasotince, TV Studio, MT, and TV K1. Over the last two days, they've been turned back into TV K 1 and TV Studio, because they signed a contract with SBB. Namely, they are offered to sign a contract that, according to TV, is largely unacceptable because it does not define a constant price, but is subject to changes and does not know how much of the broadcasting price will be at the bottom of the line. Now you're going to say, of course, well, it's a business between two privates. A cable operator and private TV, but that's true. My question is, what is the public interest, or what is the interest of Leskovec citizens? I remind you, we've passed laws that regulate this area, and then we decided to privatise the media at the bar, which was probably a good decision. But I don't think we're done. I don't think the deal's finished with the RRA, which needs to be passed by the cable operator's business rule. Is it potentially possible, since more and more people are joining the cables and cable TVs, then will it just happen that no one will be watching so-called. Earth television, Earth's programme, and then cable operators will dictate what it's public interest, as in many cases it seems. That's what happened in Leskovac for the past three weeks. Simply, cable operator sets the conditions of TV, if TV does not meet these conditions, citizens will not be able to watch a program that is of interest to them. I think we should make a rule that will be regulated that some programs simply have to be transmitted over cable TV. What I'm saying is that cable operators are being appealed to by the mayor for this. So, the appeal was made by the mayor of Leskovec, head of the district, but also by the Directorate of Public Health in Leskovec, given that we are due to the flu epidemic and that the citizens of Leskovec are entitled and the Institute of Health has an obligation to inform them about the epidemiological situation in Leskovec. So far, it is not possible because someone has decided simply to keep his personal interest out of some public interest. I want to point out that Leskovac TV was a city TV and that she hired 69 people and that she had a potential audience of 800,000 viewers before privatisation. Today, it employs 35 people, and has regular permits to broadcast its program, and the fee pays RRA, RTL, Sokoya and something called the OSPS. They're some audio transmitters. It's really not my area, and I don't understand. If more cable operators demand payment, as far as possible, TV Leskovac will not be able to function further, and the citizens of Leskovac will be denied for many information. I appeal once again to the RRA to adopt a regulation on cable operators' business, but I also ask for an urgent meeting of the Information Committee and a call for all potential stakeholders, so TV from Leskovec, RRA and the competent ministries to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32971	Before I give my word to the Messengers of Zlati Đeric, a message to the messengers of the people about the resignation of the Messenger of the people. You have accepted the resignation of Dragan Vujadinovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the review of the new resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before he was elected, MP Dragan Vujadinovic, elected from the election list for ZES - Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. After that, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected chairman, respected to the public of Serbia, I have two questions for the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Sasu Dragin. The first question is about the problem in my western -- the county I come from and I'm interested in, how did Mr. Dragin so visibly and so quickly, expeditively already on September 15th, and before the adoption of this law to come into force from January 1st, on the rationalisation of jobs in the Republic administration, manage to shut down three veterinary inspectors' jobs in the West Coast? It is an interesting coincidence that these are exactly three veterinary inspectors who have appropriate, even very respectable results. These are three veterinary inspectors who are not members of the DS. They are not members of any party, and they pointed to the illegal business of their direct manager, who is a member of the DS. That's what I'd like Mr. Secretary to explain to me, to send a written reply and that I can get to know the public in my West Coast district. The second question is the question we've asked several times and we've been intrigued again after this withdrawal of the report of the auditory house. It concerns spending, spending among other 200 million in the Ministry of Agriculture on mosquito spraying in January. A job that was awarded without a tender. We're interested in how Mr. Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin spent that 200 million in January in front of his ministry on mosquito spraying? Serbia's public would like to know how budgets are spent, how the funds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32973	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the special day of the election campaign in the territory of the municipality of Voždovac. As DS and SPS representatives would say, battles for Stalingrad. They act as if the election results will decide the fate of their parties and especially their most prominent member, Dragan Gilas. Serbian citizens should know that a real war between citizens is being waged there, because the force of technique that wants to launch all the slides appears to be in the Danube villages. All ministries have started working in the last 15 days for the benefit of the citizens of Voždovec, enormously to spend money, neither in the budget nor in it, nor will it be paid. Today, with all the humiliations with a liter or two liters of edible oil, citizens who don't have enough money to buy it, today you have 100 more trash cans in Rakovica village of new ones, the other day 2,300 phones with connections free of charge shared to the citizens. Before that, one hundred machines and trucks poured asphalt in the streets and in the meadows to prove that you cared about the citizens. What hurts me the most is the Ministry of Health's procedure. In Ripnje, a village that has not been heard from by many of the ministers who are now being kidnapped there, there is a Health House on the street of Avalska 23 that has been waterless for years. The home of health has a ground floor and a floor, a ward for healthy and sick children, a specialist service, and no running water. The citizens of Ripnja collected money and arranged through the president of the local community to drill an arterial well in the courtyard of the House of Health. The drilling took five hours. The water was found at 30 meters and a tank of another 20 meters was built. Instead of being happy that the House of Health has water, that it is tested, I am convinced that it is good for drink, but even if it is not, that at least children can wash their hands in the House of Health, doctors can wash their hands when they examine one patient, so that they can examine the other. Some sanitary inspector appears in the Republic, Vojislav Pavlovic, honours him and says – immediately stop the works on the excavation of the arteric well, and the well is finished, the pump is downed, all of this is done in one day and the water can flow through the water installation in the House of Health. Gentlemen, this is not an honor for you. That's why you're going to go bad in the Vozdovac elections, because you have such a health minister, because you have such a mayor, because you have such ministers who work 15 days for the people when elections are on the territory of some municipality. You don't remember four years of doing anything, and you've been doing everything in the last 15 days of the campaign, and it's normal to make people angry and people will vote for other political options. I'm just afraid that in these two days, as far as there's still no mass fights, since it's evident that the people are grouping into a group that has police protection and a group that's bitter, indignant, almost angry at everything that's happening on Vozdovac municipality territory. I'm telling you, we're not in a political conflict. Don't let us go into political wars because we advances aren't ready and we won't. Do not wage war against your people, but make sure that this people are better and that you work for them for four years, and you will not fear when the elections come how you will pass. You lost in June, you'll lose in December. What difference does it make? Are you ready to endure a life in which there is both defeat and victory? Now you lose, you might win next time. I ask the question – who spends that money? Who granted approval for 2,300 free connections and telephones to give Telekom the citizens of the village in the municipality of Voždovac? What's the name of that guy who spends state money from the budget, what's the name of the one who's above everyone who can decide when it's concrete, when it's paved, when it's living, when it's not living, who doesn't drink water, who doesn't drink, who doesn't drink, who doesn't care, who doesn't care? Tell us once, whose service are you in? Who's in charge of who's leading you?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32975	Three minutes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to inform the National Assembly and the institutions that need to solve this problem. It's about the problem of delivering electricity to Roma families at an industrial plant in Zemun. The May 25th depot at Boltec has a large number of internally displaced persons from Kosovo, where there are over 60 families, where there are many sick, children and adults, and they have run out of electricity. Currently, electricity is enabled by "Ratko Mitrovica". However, given that the situation is risky for security reasons, they excluded the electricity from those Roma community citizens at Thunderstone. A request was sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as to the Belgrade City Assembly, was sent on October 7th 2009. So far, nothing's been solved. The same family and settlement of internally displaced persons are still without electricity. I ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as the City Assembly, to do something to bring electricity to these internally displaced Roma living on the edge of existence, as they say, one of the most critical causes of social life. I expect the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the City Assembly to understand this appeal, the Democratic Left of Roma, and do something to help connect electricity to these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32977	Whether one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for participation on the basis of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want a word? Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, Milica Radovic, Balint Pastor, Riza Halimi and Nada Kolundžija. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is on the basis of a search in particular on the 23rd item of the agenda of the Law on Gender Equality, and in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, called for the members of the Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Natalija Micunovic, Director of the Directorate for Gender Equality at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Ljiljana Milutinovic of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We are going to the 23rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSATION OF THE LAW ON THE UNIFORMITY OF PALOVA (resuming in particular) Before we move to the debate on the amendment which is on the agenda, I remind the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups that the time available until the end of the debate is in the details of the point on which the following: PUPS, the authorised representative has 9 minutes and 40 seconds and the total time of the parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of minorities has the time available to complete the time, the New Serbia parliamentary group has the total time for the president of the parliamentary group and used the time of the parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group is available for four minutes and 30 seconds at the disposal of the parliamentary group, the three-minute task force for the elected representative and for the whole time period of time period of time of time of time of time of work, the SPS-JS, the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group and the representative of Serbia, the mandate of time of time of time of time of time of time for the mandate of time for the meeting of the group, the group of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the group of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the group of the group of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the group of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the meeting of the Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32978	I'm talking about Article 27's injury and Article 87's. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday, we were all witnesses that Mr. Minister Rasim Ljajic has adopted several amendments in very active communication with MPs. He accepted the arguments that the MPs later gave. Here, Mr. Ljajic is coming in right now and I have nothing more to say. I wanted to insist, that's exactly why we're waiting for him to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32979	You rightly wanted to insist, MPs, and here we have the full consent of 250 MPs. The government's authorised representative is obliged to attend the National Assembly session. Minister Rasim Ljajic was in the O.R. when we started the course of the session, which is based on Article 235, so we knew he was in the building and that he would enter the hall. Anyway, you're right, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32980	You injured the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic, when you said that an authorised representative of the government was obliged to be in the National Assembly when the bill was searched. Therefore, it is not mandatory for any member of the Rules of Procedure, and very often you do not respect that provision, and we are discussing the laws in front of the empty benches provided for by the Government. So, is it now that you have spoken the principle that will apply in the future, that we do not have to report to you at all that there is no government representative or that you are well-intentioned today, something nice happened on the way from Novi Sad to Belgrade, or what could have been the reason why you today do not look like Gordana Komic, whom we are, unfortunately, already used to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32981	People's MP, the principle you've noticed today applies all the time. So, the government's authorised representative is obliged to be in the O.R. at the beginning of the debate, and the MPs are obliged to be informed of the reasons, if the government has sent the notice to the National Assembly why they are not there. The principle is applied. Every time the government didn't send a notice on who was the government's authorised representative, the National Assembly set a break in work. What any government official can do and what has the right to each minister is to have the right to occasional exits during the session, to have the right to all that other participants in the session, as the Rules of Procedure obliges him. I warn you that your remarks about me are at the edge of Article 104 because you can't talk about your impressions as facts, but we understand each other. The government of the Republic of Serbia will be controlled by 250 MPs. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We will return to the amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Parliament MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32982	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is also an important amendment and we're continuing that story from last night. Once again, let me remind the MPs who were not there and the public that you accepted the amendment that obliges the employer to professionally perfect at least 30% of the less-represented sex. On the other hand, here, counterpart Stevanovic intervened in accordance with international conventions, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the fact that education is something that each of us carries out from the house and that it cannot be put into the provisions of the law. But that's why education and the promotion of awareness that a society can develop if equal opportunities are offered, so, from early childhood, both boys and girls, to educate, to gain knowledge and to continue to pay off in accordance with their potentials, and every society wants, including Serbia, to have full potential. Now many of our best students and students have gone from 2000 to today out of the country, although after October 5, you promised them new jobs and free schooling, etc. So it was necessary and much better this formulation of fellow Stevanovic to react in this way. Are there stereotypes and prejudices? I don't think we're the kind of society that has that kind of intolerance. This exists, we have seen in the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as I actively participate in the work of this Committee on Gender Equality there, that in many Member States there are both prejudices and discrimination in the field of education due to some religious and traditional factors present in these countries. In Serbia, this is not the case, regardless of religious and national membership. Yet it is free and accessible to all, as regards primary education, which our country's Constitution guarantees. In this regard, we and how we are progressing in relation to other countries, I mentioned last night that there are 60 million girls in the world who are not available in basic education, and this is also in EU countries, for your information, that you do not think that everything there is honey and milk. These are the official data that we receive in that institution, that is, in that parliamentary body, which includes all EU member states. Therefore, accept this amendment, because it is true, these stereotypes and prejudices exist, but these are not adequate terms for one legislative proposal. It must be clearly defined here, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that no one, as counterpart Stevanovic said in his amendment, should behave and act with the aim of preventing someone from doing so, or to prevent any kind of discrimination based on gender differences, from basic education to professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32983	The time of the SRS parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Krpić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32984	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr Minister, we welcome and support, in particular, Article 31, which prescribes education on gender equality or gender equality, as an integral part of pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education, as well as permanent learning. School's studying, family's raising. This is particularly important because it is the best way to bring down prejudice and guarantee that, in the long run, gender gender equality will be socially accepted, not legally prescribed obligation. Special measures are also prescribed to improve the position of those groups that leave Serbia early due to their culture, tradition and socio-economic opportunities. Finally, the honourable Vice-President, Mrs Comic, the PUPS, believes that the purpose of adopting this law in general and the amendments accepted by the Committee on Gender Equality and the Government will only be maintained if its application is brought to life because experts believe that Serbia is not concerned with the lack of legal acts on gender equality, but with ignoring the existing ones. For example, since World War II, Serbia has a law that regulates the right to inherit women's children. Yet many female children, especially in rural areas, are forced to give up their share of inheritance for the benefit of the brothers, so as not to be excluded and rejected from the family. I'm afraid there's something similar about this law. The President-in-Office, if it is true that Serbia is a special country in Europe that does not have such a law, please my fellow MPs, and opposition and positions, that in the day of voting we are unique in voting on this important law which, as I have already mentioned, the Constitution obliges us to have it as soon as possible. Mr. Minister Ljajic, MEPs and I continue to suggest that this law on gender equality change the name to be called the law on gender equality. In the end, MPs PUPS and I will vote for this law in the day that is set to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32985	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the authorized representative's time. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Bozidar Delic, Otos Kišmarton, Zoran Antic and Milan Knezevic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32986	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, ministers, in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, we have submitted an amendment to Article 32. It's a bill of law. For the sake of the public, I would like to read this Article 32, to comment that this member is in a group of those members of the declarative character, where no binding legal normative sanctions are created in the member and we, as a parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to this article. This article, 32, reads as follows: "The authorising officer is obliged to seek to propose at least 30% of representatives of the less represented half when appointing members of the administrative and supervisory authorities in public services". It refers to the appointment of members of administrative and supervisory authorities in public services. We suggest that this non-binding part of the sentence "is obliged to try" is changed and that this part is said to be the authorised proposer obliged to propose at least 30% of the representatives, and not to read any further part of the text. We want to change this declaratively into binding. To this member, when you look at the government's answers, the amendments were submitted by representatives of all parliamentary groups. There is one consensus that all MPs in parliament have objections to this member of the law. I would also read about the government's public explanation for why the amendment is being rejected. It is said - the amendment is rejected for reasons why public services (institutions, enterprises and other forms of organisation established by law) carry out actions to ensure the exercise of rights or to meet the needs of citizens and organisations or other law of established interest, and the means which may be in all forms of property. In view of the importance of activity, form of organisation, or property regime, the Proposer considers that the purpose of the law is achieved by norming a declaration and permitting norms. This explanation also stands for all amendments submitted to this article. How do you interpret this argument? Is there any concern that the appointment of board members may not have enough qualified, highly educated professional representatives of both sexes? Does the Government, since different property regimes are mentioned, have caution towards these primarily private, what kind of attitude will they have towards binding norms of the law that they must have equal representation of members of boards of directors and supervisory boards, or does the government want, counting these two considerations, to put themselves aside and not put a binding standard on these public enterprises and services? We of the Serbian Progressive Party consider all these arguments, although these are interpretations, I repeat, so I interpreted this argument, in fact, in conflict with the law. Through this law we need to create an active policy of equal opportunities. Any caution in the appointment of board members who would be restrictive under this will be against the law when the law is passed. We consider and propose that this amendment be adopted, especially as there is Minister Ljajic. In last night's debate on amendments, we had situations for Article 13 which was also declarative, there was adopted a compromise amendment by the Committee on Gender Equality, then we had an amendment to Article 14 which the minister adopted. We also had an article 19. All these listed members were optional and declarative. In an appropriate way, either by reshaping the Committee on Gender Equality, whether by the intervention of the Minister, they are regulated. This is the same member. And last night we commented that the largest number of amendments from all MPs were given to these members who were declarative. A similar intervention should be done in this article. There is no fear that a binding norm should also be placed for members of boards of directors and supervisory boards. We believe that there are enough qualified, professional, professional persons of both genders who will be able to meet these criteria. Once again, I propose to the Serbian Progressive Party that you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32987	Three minutes and 50 seconds were used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, Natasa Micic's MP submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32988	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 32 refers to equal gender representation and reads: "The authorising officer is obliged to seek to propose at least 30% of the representatives of the less represented half when appointing members of the administrative and supervisory authorities in public services." By following the thread we started by writing these amendments, the DSS has also requested that the 30%, as you suggested, increase to 50%. Our explanation is exactly the same. First of all, logically and mathematically, if this is a law on gender equality, then the equality is 50% to 50%, 30% is discrimination. If you count that there may be less discrimination, if you say that 30% is not some other percentage, simply, discrimination is always discrimination, and thus treating 52% of the population of Serbia is wrong. Secondly, in 2004, and last night I talked about it, and I think it is necessary to remind the minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and to the Serbian citizens, since 2004, since February, when the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed, where the government of Vojislav Kostunica first placed that famous 30% percentage, I guess something changed in society, I guess for almost six years is one period where democracy in society has progressed, at least it should have progressed, where society has progressed civilizationally, and where that 30% could have increased, say, by 30.01%. It just had to change. It seems to me to be one government decision to make one status quo and not step out anywhere. In response, the ministry has provided us with why it does not accept our amendment, it is said that the percentage of 30% to 40% is a norm, some standard in the EU, and that we stick to those standards, but the percentage between 30% and 40% is a pretty big space for progress in the civil development of society, in equality of women, so it is possible that those 10% of the space in which this law could make a step. It's obvious he didn't have the will and apparently stayed at the 30%. You say the step is made in language. So you responded to article 10, why don't you accept our amendment and you said that although it's not normable, even though we don't know how it's going to read, we're still going to use that language, but what's certain is what the status quo is right now, that 30%, that's what you're talking about. We actually wanted to get an answer because we learned to read in context what you write as answers. It is clear to us that you, in fact, interpret the law very argumentably, did not want to move it because you wanted this law to sound nice and beautiful. Why am I saying that? I'll say it very simply. You have standards that are not legal – we are obliged to strive, they are obliged to provide etc. We're all talking about it here. At one point you accept, at another point you don't accept. Then, neither did you offer in law mechanisms for implementing this law, there were none at all, all the groups intervened, you said you accepted some of those amendments, I saw that it did. We have one deep agreement that 30% of what you've won and stop at it and for the next three centuries you'll be satisfied with it, because 30% is something. Yes, it is. It was very easy last night that you accepted two opposing amendments to the same article. Last night when I came home, I looked closely at what it was that you accepted. I don't know what's going to come out of it, but I warned you back then, and I think I should warn you, there's gonna be a problem with that, and that might be the moment to solve it. In fact, it is the government's intention to have one situation – the law really sounds nice, it really looks like a step, it really offers something, but look at what it is essentially offering, it doesn't seem to me, but I really think that anything in the lives of women in Serbia will move through this law. It's such a big story about whether there's going to be 30 or 31 or 50% of women on the boards of public service, it's funny to talk about it. I just think out loud and say – it's important to be qualified, professional and professional people, it doesn't matter if the percentages are as big or as big. But you insist on those percentages and then you encourage us to comment this way. Thank you. By the way, I used group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32989	Three minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to clarify the adoption of her amendment. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32990	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. counterpart Vojić-Markovic, you spoke of amendments that were adopted. Since Mr. Rasim Ljajic, the minister, accepted in the debate last night my amendment, which I submitted in the same text with some other colleagues, was an amendment most of which was polemic, and the witness was Dr. Dimitrijevic, therefore, we had been very long, almost an hour around it, there was actually one confusion, and in fact, again, I am going back to that part of my presentation – professional training and training. Namely, we used the term "facultative", "can and not", you said "declarative" and we succeeded, your and our parliamentary group, to persuade Mr Ljajic to reach that percentage 30 less. I agree with you, we are not the first to put such frameworks, as a percentage, but believe that we have not started since 2001 when our SRS parliamentary group is on the initiative, I repeat for the third time, Dr Vojislav Seselj, voted in favour of the amendment of counterpart Leila Ruzdic to start from involving women actively in local self-government, i.e. to be binding and to be on lists and to be 30% of selected women, a different political situation or structure and local self-government would be, you will agree, with me in Kragujevac and in your Valjev. So, this one's made some kind of shift. We have until the end of the law to talk about it. Here, we'll see now, Radeta's colleague has legally responded to Article 32, and how will the minister react, I don't know? I think, Mr. Minister, especially after Veronica's presentation, you'll still decide to change this Article 32. I don't want to reconsider, but I have that feeling. Later, when we talk about these international institutions, you're right, it's just a framework, but we have to act. After all, you too, with your political engagement, and colleague Donka Banovic, and the vice president of your party, Mrs Stojanovic, as well as we, Serbian radicals, have done our part and in our engagement to encourage other women to do this work. Because there are many in our SRS women who are active, from the local board, through the municipal, who are in units of local self-government and how prominent, both as committees, and as participants in active political life, and who the general public doesn't know. But it's tomorrow's potential and it's an opportunity for them to identify themselves, with their own free will, to do so. We must do all we can to say that those who praise the rapid entry into the EU are not so great in those countries either. To conclude that Serbia is in eighth place, when it comes to this, with 22% of women represented in the Serbian parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32991	Anyone else want a word? If not, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Comic together submitted their MPs to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32992	Article 32 was really very ungrably written and given that yesterday, Mr Ljajic, you actively participated with the MPs and accepted amendments that were essentially legal-technical editorials, did not enter, as well as this, into some fundamental change of your bill, but I must tell you that your associates, and this is primarily a mistake of the Legislative Secretariat, really did this text of the law. Imagine, it is said, "The authorised promoter is obliged to try to propose at least 30% of the representatives of the less-represented sex." This just can't survive like this. So I'm not getting into it – 30% of the representatives of the less represented sex, etc., but I'm talking about what I really like as a lawyer just steams my ears. So, it can't be like this, it has to be like, "A mandated promoter proposes at least 30%." I think you will accept this because, in your explanation, you said, among other things, that, given the importance of activity, form of organization or property regime – this is why you do not accept – the proposer felt that this proposal achieved the purpose of the law by norming a declaration and permitting norm. If the law is passed only for the purpose of norming a declaration and permitting norms, then it is not the law. Then that's something -- to put on another line, we've passed another law. If you don't do it so that someone has an obligation under the law to do something, then there's no point in passing the law. I really suggest you accept this amendment and court this member, at the very least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32993	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32994	We accept this amendment to Ms. Radeta's letter for three reasons. First, we have already accepted the amendments to the article. 13, 19, 21, and it's logical to throw out that declarative standard right now. The second reason, this amendment is a practical compromise between the solutions we have offered and the proposals we have heard from MEP Knezevic and some other parliamentary groups. The third thing, since there were also words here about taking things lightly, is that this is too important a law to go to the adoption of a simple majority, because the fact that we have a majority in this assembly, but I really want us to demonstrate in this way the willingness to accept any solution that will contribute to improving the quality and essence of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32995	Thank you. I find that the amendment by the government's authorised representative has been accepted. The minister has accepted the amendment, and we will plead on this amendment, as well as on others, in the day of the vote. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the 34th Law on Gender Equality, which I asked that in the position of the 1st member, the words "to strive" be deleted. The SRS amendment was not accepted by the government. It is argued in the explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why a declared general standard is prescribed which has no sanctions. Also, for reasons of equal representation of sports sex and active sports, it will limit the objective tendencies and possibilities of one of the poles. In the light of the law, Mr. Minister, it is clear that the proposed solutions are defined, I stress once again, the obligations of the authorities, the organisations that exercise public authority of the institutions, as well as the organisations and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a city or municipalities, and the specific measures they take within the framework of their competences. It has been pointed out several times here in the principle debate that the term "need to try" is not a legal norm and that it is impossible to measure this endeavor, and of course it is impossible to sanction a failure. That the words "trying" are absolutely more in this position also says the explanation that the government gave when my colleague Dusan Maric's amendment was rejected, who asked that the position of the second and third members be deleted completely, and in which it is said, the question of equal representation of the sexes in sport depends solely on the individual's personalafinities, and educational sports organisations are obliged to allow conditions for this. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, even the legislator does not use the term "they are obliged to try", but only "they are obliged" and as a binding norm, and therefore I call on the minister to accept this amendment that I have submitted before the parliamentary group, thereby contributing to the applicability of this law, which has been repeatedly said to be most inadmissible in the set of anti-discrimination laws, because in it the principle of obligation is absolutely avoided and it all comes down to a declarative commitment to ensuring the principles of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32997	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Dragan Colic, Saša Maksimovic, Zoran Antic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32998	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ministers, ahead of the Serbian Progressive Party MPs' club, we have tabled an amendment to Article 34 and, for the sake of the public, the member refers to the equal representation of genders in sport. That's the title. Here we have submitted an amendment that in all the views of this member, the declarative words "try to" are deleted again. I'll read the same for the public article 34 in all attitudes. So -- educational institutions are obliged to seek to provide equal conditions for active sports, independent of gender, and to take measures to encourage physical exercise and sports activities for girls and women. The position of 2 - sports organisations and associations is required to seek to ensure equal treatment of genders in the development and financing of sports activities. The last position - sports organisations and associations are obliged to seek to ensure equal gender representation in the bodies of the management of these organisations and associations. In all attitudes, again, the declarative words "are obliged to strive", and we, by amendment, propose to delete and move into binding. Now we have one situation that we have one member with the same declarative solutions, and when we analyze the amendments on it is at least filed, although it is declarative. It's clear to us that the employment, the training, the relationship at work, I quote amendments that were declarative, which we discussed last night, where the most amendments were made, and suddenly we have sport and three amendments. We believe that the relationship in sports activities traditionally reflects in fact an unequal relationship with the opposite sex, which is girls, or later women. Education from pre-school, primary, secondary and high, which has been given and operated in previous members for years in our country, however, the relationship in sports since the first grade of primary school practically towards girls and women, I must say, reflects, however, some traditional relationship that is considered not equal to men. That's why we have reacted in all three attitudes and placed a binding relationship, believing that through education, raising the attitude towards sports activities of preschool age both boys and girls need to be equal. Through schooling, which is the goal of this law on gender equality, although sport is a secondary matter, but it affects and creates some new knowledge and respect in relation to gender. I only analyze that part. Personally, although perhaps when the amendments are analysed we have contradictory explanations, we could discuss this. I don't want to read the government's argument, but the reasons for this and the previous amendment clearly show that the government or the resolution ministry has the same thing with a traditional relationship, believing that the female sex is objectively restricted by something. It's biological, but it's not objective. All that we now call upon is that activities and sports activities will be limited by objective tendencies and opportunities of one half. We have traditionally created this from school, unfortunately both family and today, although in other spheres of life there is equality, at work, in employment, we have discussed it, but this expresses one part that we have to change. You can't say it in the family, my daughter, it's not for you or my son, it's not for you. Sports is a very important thing, but unfortunately it's an expression of a traditional relationship. If they are placed in a segment of sport activities of equal participation, it also affects education, some habits are created that will later, with education, change that relationship and create one legal framework for a future. The government's explanation and an explanation for the refusal of amendments or even some amendments to make it clear that the views are being deleted, in fact, the ratio of inequality, the ratio of biological handicaps, and that should not stand. I repeat, this is not, according to us, the Serbian Progressive Party, an irrelevant matter. Sports is a very important thing in raising and establishing equal relationships. I'm sorry there's so little amendment. It's so easy to get over it, and it's very important in age, in education and participation when it's hoped for, education creates conditions. From this comes this third position which would certainly be disputable and could be defended by different arguments, that in the bodies of the management of these organisations and associations, wait, there are also formal things, the bodies of the sports associations. There's financial services, training jobs, medical and medical professions, so there's a way to eat. So we in the engagement in these and administrative functions can be achieved because playing sports is not only about playing football or basketball, but also about doing so must be achieved by many professional, medical, organisational, financial, social elements to be fulfilled. So we from the SNS went to change all three attitudes, not just one, considering, if I did make some arguments, I repeat, I could put out a lot more arguments, but basically we need through a sport that's not as side-by-side as we think, and in these discussions it turns out to be a side-by-side thing, it's as important as employment, it's important as a relationship at work. We suggest that you adopt this amendment and create one legal basis, a one-law framework that will really give real power or the real meaning of this law called the Gender Equality Act without the restrictive biological constraints given in the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u32999	The time of the authorized representative has been used. The Forward Group of MPs has all the time available for the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33000	I accept this amendment for similar reasons, as before.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33001	I find that the amendment has been accepted and will, as well as others, be declared in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? ( No. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of Snezana Stojanović-Plasic and Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Komic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vesna Marjanović submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. This amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Gender Equality, but will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 36th and on Article 36th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 36, reads - voting law, no gender discrimination, is provided in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Mr. Minister, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed that men and women are equal in terms of voting rights. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Minister, it was given, according to constitutional law experts, the entire catalog of human rights and freedoms. You've drawn several rights out of this huge human rights corpus and freedom, and then you've lined them up in the bill and said -- that right can be realised regardless of the sex of legal entities. If you're already on that path, Mr. Minister, then you should have restored all the human rights and freedoms that exist in the RS Constitution. However, you have, I repeat, chosen I do not know by which criteria only certain rights and freedoms, and then you said - those rights and freedoms can be realized regardless of gender. Some of the other rights and freedoms that are also mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you did not state in the Bill of Law and then ask the question - on what criteria was the selection of those rights and freedoms that will be the subject of this law made from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? What rights are more important, and what rights are less important? Otherwise, this member of the bill, Mr. Minister, is interesting for another reason. Today was the meeting of the Administrative Committee. And at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the resignation of the DS MP, Mr Dragan Vujadinovic, was established. Now aside from the fact that Mr Dragan Vujadinovic said in the media that there is no conflict of interest, that he personally believes that he who is a MP should also be the president of the municipality at the same time, as this allegedly reduces costs both in the republican budget and in the budget of local self-government. But it's an interesting phenomenon, Mr. Minister. Today the resignation of Dragan Vujadinović was established...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33003	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was tabled by the Parliament of the People of Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my amendment, I propose to amend Article 2's position so that it reads - gender equality is ensured when running for elections at all functions, appointments and active participation in decision-making and policy-making at all levels of government. The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the proposal does not contribute to the accuracy of the provisions of the draft law. I think that's exactly what the amendment potentials and points to the essence of gender equality. Gender equality will not only be ensured by the mere listing of institutions in which equality is ensured. It is much more important and it is essential to participate actively in decision-making and policy-making at all levels of government. We apply European standards when running for parliamentary and local elections, and that is where all formalities are met. But what happens after the election? Is the percentage of less represented sex, in this case 30% female, represented at the same time in municipalities and in the Republic Assembly? Of course not, and we're talking about executive authority, management posts, agencies, public institutions and businesses, there's an even smaller percentage. I find the amendment meaningful and an indication of the democracy of a society and the involvement of women in political life. I therefore believe that gender equality should become part of politics at all levels and in all spheres of political life. He's comprehensive. This article, with this amendment of mine, is becoming comprehensive, and we propose that the ministers accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33005	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Vučković. The Government and the Committee on Gender Equality accepted the amendment, as well as other amendments adopted by the Government, or the authorised representative, and will be voted on and declared in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33006	Madam Chairman, Mr Ljajic, I have filed this amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group for these reasons mentioned by Mr Martinovic, because the constitutional right is drawn here in the first place, so the Constitution guarantees everyone the opportunity to engage and be accepted in international, therefore, through political engagement, institutions and organisations. For me, this whole attitude is far more important. You said erasing that attitude wouldn't improve this text of the law. I don't think it's necessary, but it doesn't matter. Neither international, state, local, or regional statistical organisations, such as those in the world, have any clear access to this, nor to the methodology by which they would establish, determine how to present these issues related to the lack of participation of women in political life. There are legal frameworks in all these countries, but now they're just setting up with us. Then the question is, why isn't that enough? When it comes to this participation in international organisations, as regards permanent parliamentary delegations, please listen to me, Mr Minister, we have a parliamentary provision, that is Article 248(2). Please don't quote me this time, Mrs. Comic, since it's our Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, but I'll be quick. It says - The National Assembly decides on the establishment of a permanent delegation for participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE organisation and other multilateral parliamentary institutions. The motion for a decision composed of permanent delegations, position 1 of this member, shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. We, as a Parliament, go ahead of you, or we didn't have the law, so it's only now that you reach us with this member of the law. Now, in this sense, we are going to implement, when this law is passed, a change in one delegation, because in all permanent delegations of the National Assembly, because of the obligation we have in the Council of Europe, the OSCE and others, we have at least 30%, or the minimum representation of the smaller half, or women, but we do not have in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which, if you put it as binding, which is the Radete amendment, will have to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33007	Anyone else want a word? If not, Elvira Kovac's MP submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33008	This amendment is in line with the amendment I just explained. This is only about the election or appointment of delegations representing the Republic of Serbia and the bill says it will seek to ensure that the composition of the delegation makes up at least 30% of the less represented gender, and our amendment is to provide 30% for the norm to have real power. Mr. Minister, please, I don't know if you know about this fact, as a member of the government, and it's in line with this law we're discussing today. You know, Mr. Ljajic, that 2,500 people in the area of justice are planning to lose their jobs. Yesterday I received information that in the municipal and district court in Zrenjanin, all employees of the judicial administration were supplied forms based on which, based on the completed forms, people would remain at work or be fired. One of the questions in that form is – are you pregnant? Is it possible, yesterday, we talked here about how some private entrepreneurs, who abuse the fact that they are monopolies, said Miskovic, etc., are scrambling young women, won't take them to work and ask them if they're pregnant, whether they intend to give birth, and today we have a case that the state as an employer asks an employee woman if she's pregnant and depends on whether she stays at work or not. I don't know if they did that in other courts. I suppose so, because it's the Justice Department's form. Then it was withdrawn, such a pattern with these questions, because it was said – well, it doesn't matter that the questions that were asked are of no importance. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, to find out if it's possible, and this is absolutely certain, who thought to ask a woman at the courthouse if she's pregnant and whether or not she's going to get fired or stay at work. This is in your jurisdiction, and I'd like to hear your opinion before you determine the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33009	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33010	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33011	I find that the proposing representative, Minister Rasim Ljajic, accepted the amendment to the 38th Vjerica Radeta National MP. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment are joint mid-day MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33012	Mr. Minister, in my amendment, we have two things I'd like to talk about. In yesterday's afternoon, tonight's debate on the essence of the discussion was on some of the things that applied to some members of the law, that they were not legally binding. Please read item 2 – in the election or appointment of a delegation set by the Republic of Serbia will seek to provide... It's one non-binding thing again. From this comes one, it seems to me, another fact, that there was not enough co-operation between you as the minister and the Ministry and the Committee dealing with this problem. If there were co-operation and there was serious talk about it, there would be no such failure. I think there's something going to be an appointment for the Committee's session to iron these things out, to adapt the law to its real purpose. The second thing I want to talk about is that this is not about the percentage of women's participation in our delegations, so also in international co-operation, from 30 to 50%. What did you answer about this amendment? Can I move on? You replied that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed percentage is inappropriate to the conditions. How inappropriate? Are we inappropriate company? Look at those percentages, when you rejected some other amendments, you said that the EU standard is between 30% and 40%. You don't mention that standard here, you're just talking about inappropriateness. The difference between 30% and 40% is a very serious number. I repeat again what I said last night - you did not show a good will to be 31%. Why wouldn't it be 35%, 39%? Are you the one who's gonna nail that story to 30% and say, "That's it, there's no movement from there?" How long has there been no movement? Why is there no movement? Is this the ultimate measure in the EU that we will remain on, and we are talking about going to the EU? Shall we go with the ultimate measure, with the 30%? Once again, I ask you to think about all these things and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33013	The minute was used by the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33014	I don't know if this is about a misunderstanding or your intentional misrepresentation of these and other members. This is about a legal minimum of 30%. It could be 35, 40, 75, depending on the institution, the institution, the situation, the circumstances, but we prescribe a minimum of 30% here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33015	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word, so Donka Banovic's national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33016	That's what we're talking about, Mr. Minister. If we suggest and give the signal that this should be a higher percentage, and you don't respond positively, but you say, the amendment is rejected, it's about your opposite attitude, and that's the essence of this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33017	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33018	I think we speak the same language that we understand each other, but you know, we're kind of like that that if this law says that it's a minimum of 30%, hardly anyone will go above that minimum. They'll say, "I've fulfilled my legal obligation." We all participate in local elections, etc., and for a long time we have been obliged by the Council to have at least 30% of the less-represented gender on the lists. I've never seen a list of candidates for a councilman where there were 50%, for example. a less represented sex. That's what this is about. I doubt anyone will go beyond that necessary minimum. Of course, the big step was the obligation and the 30%, but I think we could have been a little bit bolder, as you say through the law -- 40 or 50, maybe 50, which we suggest, in your opinion, yours too, but let's say, it could have gone to 40%, so it would be an obligation again to move that threshold by 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33019	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica, an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33020	We understand each other, Donka Banovic and I. To take the opportunity to say now that you have accepted this amendment for international delegations, that I, too, am personally sorry, because we are receiving quotas, which my colleague Banovic is no longer with us in the permanent composition of the delegation in the Council of Europe for her patriotic engagement and participation in making important decisions for our country. This is about the minimum, but I wanted to tell you not to have this in the function of advertising, but rather the fact that there are examples in the SRS. I'll count three. So in the first session of the local assembly in 2004, in the municipality of Bor, of the four elected councillors, three were women, therefore, always more, it all depends on the political party, as much as it is engaged in the issue. The same case was in Rakovica, the same case was in Krusevec, Varvarin, and in Kragujevac, when running for the list of local elections on 11 May 2008, we also had over this minimum established percentage. Otherwise, it's something that we have an unwritten rule because we have above all in our SRS our brothers and our comrades in our ideology in political life, and that's what our president Dr. Seselj taught us from the beginning, we really have a expressed desire and will to include a mass of what of students, which of those women who don't work, the housekeeper, and through highly educated women, in political life. That's why I said it was only a minimum, and the maximum is 100%, because Broza is gone, and if he were present and we had a totalitarian regime, like he was, it would be 105, you know how it went at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33021	National MP Srdjan Milivojević directs the word in the debate in detail. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33022	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the law is very precise and very clear. We have prescribed here, i.e. the legislator prescribed a minimum of 30%. In response to some of the discussions, we had a list of DS in many parts of Serbia where this percentage was far higher and we are not here to bid on our party lists, the elections are over, we are candidates and candidates chosen, we are as a party that advocates gender equality, the most responsible places in this country for managing women, I see nothing wrong with that. I don't think it's possible to introduce a quota to patriotism in addition to this birth equality quota, because it doesn't exist. I think Serbia is a country that has far gone over the past seven years, when it comes to gender equality and we have really made a huge step in that field. I have to point out that we still call ourselves Serbia, not Amazonia, and we don't have Amazons alone, but we have people here who live normally, and we really don't need to exploit this subject in this way. I think there's a very clear legal regulation here and that's what Mr. Rasim Ljajic said. We predicted a minimum of 30%. No one commits to the one to whom the law applies and applies to respect the minimum. He can respect the maximum, but it's important to go from a number. If we had set a minimum of 50%, I'm sure the amendment would be a little 50%, and it takes 70%, because if someone wants to criticise the critics, it'll be very easy to find a way to do it. But if someone wants to apply what the law says, then they can do it in practice, so they can count their members in the O.R., and it'll be clear to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33023	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33024	Mr. Milivojevic, no one here has bid on neither the parliamentary lists nor the party lists. You are now a rather constructive debate, and otherwise the debate has been very good since we started this in particular, turned into some other streams. So, there was no bidding here. I have pointed out that it is mostly due to respect and legal obligation of 30%. We think she's short. There are 52% women in Serbia. I don't know why we'd start out, first we're not Amazons, but why start with talking about equality 30 and 70 percent. Equality means 50 and 50%. That's also what I was talking about about, some custom of ours, that it's most likely, in 95% of the cases, actually going to stay at that legal minimum of 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33025	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted the amendment. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to notice that the number of amendments adopted on this bill still speaks of the low quality of the proposed solutions, because as soon as the government was in a position to accept so many amendments, it means that something was going on in the bill itself. After all, Mr. Minister, that was the Government yesterday and admitted, because in one amendment, we stated that the proposed solution was incorrect and unspecified, and the Government replied that it accepts our amendment for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendment. So that's not what I'm saying. Your government that you're sitting in said that her bill is impeccable and unarranged. I didn't make anything up. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, there is really a gender-based discrimination in the National Assembly. National MP Elena Boze-Talian and Lidija Dimitrijevic did not accept resignation at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, but today they accepted the resignation of the MP from the DS, Dragan Vujadinovic. The resignations are almost identical by text, called for in Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now the only thing that comes to mind is that the resignations of our colleagues are not accepted just because they are women, I see no other reason, because resignations are more or less identical, they are called to the same member of the Constitution, nothing is disputed, but the fact that they were filed by Elena Christmas-Talijan and Lydia Dimitrijevic. It's funny to you, and I think it's funny, but I'm more sad. So it would be good to advocate, Mr. Minister, you, as a proven female rights fighter, that these double arches that exist in the National Assembly and in the Administrative Committee are finally thrown into some other plan. If you could do it right now, Mr. Minister, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33027	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33028	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you, since I think this is the last amendment I've submitted, to tell me how much more time I can use.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33029	Group G 17 plus has 23 minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33030	Thank you. This is an amendment that also introduces the concept of gender in one part of its work, and in the other part speaks of the need to form special bodies in units of local self-government that will contribute to a better position of women and regulate issues in this area, in order to encourage and improve gender equality. We have bodies like this in many local governments. What we wanted by this law, this solution, to introduce, is to set one standard that other local self-governments should meet. Since this is the last amendment I have submitted, I would now like to say something else on behalf of the Parliament's law group in general and all of these amendments that we have had. They were primarily related to gender issues, i.e. the introduction of the concept of gender into this law. I would like to point out once again, although I talked about it in the principle debate, but I think the minister was not present at the time, that we had already once in the assembly a bill on gender equality. I would like to stress that almost all the parliamentary groups and colleagues from almost all the parliamentary groups were working on a proposal for the text of this law and were working together both the authorities and the opposition. At the time, the DS was in opposition, but actively participated in the draft law. These are colleagues who are no longer in the congregation. Then, Mrs. Nadica Momirov, Mrs. Anita Beretic, Mrs. Zivodarka Dacin from the SPS. There were women who actively participated with the desire for the law to be passed a few years ago. What happened then? Now I'm going to mention this minister, I apologize. Minister Loncar prevented the law from being passed the moment it was on the agenda. The law was then sent to agree with all ministries. All the ministries cooperated and gave answers. Only the Ministry of Local Self-Government did not want to respect the Assembly and give any answers. The moment we asked the signatures to put the law on the agenda, when it was on the agenda and when the debate on the law was to begin, we had to withdraw the law because the law simply couldn't be passed, because the minister thought it didn't have to explain it, but that it could stop the law. Why am I saying that? I'm not talking because I want to raise the debate to a political level, because I stressed that it's important that my colleagues worked together. That's what we've shown right now, and now we've been doing everything together. I think that's very good, and I think that shows how women can work together when some of the general interests are at stake and that they don't have to raise the debate to another level. I think that's a good example for the government, too. That's why there should be more women ministers in the government, maybe 50% would be an adequate number for the government. At this point, I think the number is significantly smaller. Now I have to mention my party, which of the six ministers has three ministers, so the relationship is 50%. I think it's a really good model. Why did I say I was worried about this law? What happened? You gave one solution in which there was no reference to the concept of gender. When I asked in a public debate why there was no idea, that I didn't explain why it needed to be there, I was told that the first proposal of the administration and the first proposal of the ministry was with that concept, but that it was somewhere in some secretariats, etc. lost. It is very important to me, Minister, that you are here yesterday and today and that you have accepted a large number of amendments. I think it's very good that you got involved in this, because I really don't want to, I apologize to the lawyers, but they always say first that they can't and I don't want lawyers to make political decisions. This is a political decision, and it's a good thing that you've made a decision to get the stork back into this law. I didn't always answer when the amendments were about what "try to" etc., I'm sure it demeans this law and demeans women. Why is there so much effort in the law regarding gender equality? Why isn't that happening in other laws? At one point last night you were away when I said why the Traffic Act doesn't stand an effort not to cross the street into red light, because we think it's very important that the street doesn't cross into red light. We also find it very important that women participate and contribute to this society, at least 30%. Any provision that allows it, I think, must be a commitment, not a insistence. I also think sanctions must be provided for the law to be applied. I'll give you another good example. For example, the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which we brought in this summer, which clearly states that it is the obligation of the employer to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities and, if not employed, sanctions are envisaged, must be paid into a particular fund that will again contribute in some way to improving persons with disabilities. Why didn't we do the same thing with women? Why didn't you say he had to hire 30% of women within a certain period, two years, a year? Then we passed the Law on Employment of Persons with Disabilities and we said that it cannot be applied now, it will apply since 2010. Why didn't we do it with this law? Why did we make this law so declarative? Why didn't we say he had to hire 30% by 2012? Why didn't we say if he didn't hire 30% he'd also have to pay in some fund that would improve the position of women? Grants will be granted for self-employment of women from that fund, loans will be granted to entrepreneurs from that fund. Why didn't we do something like that? If we don't, and if we didn't, we show that this issue is only important to us on a declarative plan, just to say that we all really want to fight for the position of women and that we are really in a society that believes in it. The law, as it is now, and I don't know what its final version will be, I can't figure out what was adopted, but even where we insisted on it, until you came to accept last night and now many amendments, where we insisted on a commitment again you found someone amongst the solutions on the board, unfortunately I'm not a member of that committee, where you say you don't have to, but let them introduce some affirmative measures, etc. Why should affirmative measures be introduced? Please, let him do it, this is the law, it's not a declaration. We could've brought the declaration. Now I'm going to give you another example that speaks of criminal measures. Let's talk about that employment plan. First you said the employer should bring in the employment plan. I also don't think it's an obligation, it's a Article 13. It says it is required to adopt a plan to remove the mitigation of unequal representation. He's bound to adopt that plan. He doesn't seem to have to apply it anywhere? Minister, look, he is not required to implement the plan, he is obliged to adopt the plan and is required to submit an annual report. If he doesn't, he needs to pay 10 to 100,000 dinars. Now let me ask you, for example, he can say - my plan is to remove the inequality in the following year by hiring a woman or a less represented sex and eventually submitting an annual report and saying I didn't hire any women. So he came up with a plan, filed an annual report, didn't do anything, won't be punished. It's the effect of this solution as foreseen here. Let's try again while we can change it by adopting or by simply agreeing to declare it. I think it's very important to show that this isn't a declaration, it's a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33031	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. It's been used for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33032	I really don't think this is a declaration. If it could be suspected that the original version has more declarative norms than one law can, conditionally speaking, submit, by adopting a number of amendments, we tried to clear the law of that generality and declarationability. But you don't know what good to do here anymore. When we accept more amendments and authorities and oppositions, then they say -- here, that's proof that this law is no good, that the promoter has completely missed. When we don't accept the amendments, they say again that the government ignores everything that comes, first of all, from the opposition. I haven't said for a moment that this is the best law, but I think it's a major progress and this can be a good basis for further promotion and the rights of women and gender equality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33033	Correction, the time that has been used since the parliamentary group's time is eight minutes and 15 seconds, because two minutes have been available for the amendment. National MP Gordana Pavnovic-Milosavljevic, chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, wants to give an explanation. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33034	During the debate, I don't know what it's called, Stojanovic-Plasic, several times mentioned the Committee on Gender Equality. I am sorry that the MP was not on the Committee on Gender Equality, which during this bill has several round tables. The round tables were both in Belgrade and in the local centre, in Nis. There was an examination of the law at the session in principle and in particular and the committee was composed of MPs, all, opposition and positions. The board has accepted three amendments to your party and I think what you're saying is wrong. You were talking about women's questions. The law on gender equality is not a question of women. We can't consider gender equality law as a woman's problem here. It's a social problem at all. It is as much a problem as women, as many men, if we talk about gender equality, as the RS Constitution suggests. That's why I think that everything you've been saying is wrong and I think that the Committee on Gender Equality has proposed adequate bill proposals, because he's been most concerned with this, and I think a lot of good amendments have been adopted at this session and that this is a shift, that this law be better than it was in his original version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33035	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33036	I'm entitled to a replica, I believe. Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic, you don't even know my name, and you don't know that I've been to those round tables. I was on the round table. I was actively involved, if you remember. You don't seem to remember. I know exactly what I'm talking about. I also know very well when I talk about the law on gender equality, that is, in this case, the law on gender equality, as I know very well between gender and gender. I also know that this law regarding equality, gender and gender, of course it is a question of men, but also the fact and data that says that unfortunately women are a discriminated group in Serbia, not men. So, mostly women are represented in decision-making bodies, mostly women are represented in directorial posts, mostly women are represented in politics, mostly women are represented in all areas of social life, and mostly violence in Serbia suffers women, domestic violence, rather than men. Of course, there are in a small number of men who are exposed to discrimination and of course the law should concern both and it has been adopted, but to the greatest extent in Serbia is the discrimination of the gender of women.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33037	Right on line, MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33038	I apologize to MPs Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic, whom I didn't remember his name at the moment. I know you very well. I saw you passing through board meetings and round tables, which means you didn't attend regularly. That doesn't mean you don't know anything about this law, but as the ruling party, you've had nine years' right to pass and propose a law on gender equality, the way you think it should be. I don't think you're allowed to criticise the Equality Committee, in which you have your G17 plus representative. The board did what was best, and the original concept of the law was quite confusing, vague. However, accepting these amendments has led to a situation that this law is not ideal, but that it is a pretty good solution for equality for both women and men.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33039	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33040	Well, I certainly have to go through the Rules of Procedure, because I don't understand how the lady got a replica on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33041	The Republic is governed by Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Replication of Decisions shall be made by the Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33042	Is there a replica on the replica? I can do the replica again, okay, it doesn't matter. Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic, on the Committee on Gender Equality, I may have been passing by, when I was interested in the special things that were happening there. Because I have other committees that I'm a member of, and you're on my boards, let's say on the Committee on Poverty Reduction, which I run, you've never even shown up in passing, so that's not something we should discuss here at all. Secondly, when you talk about the fact that in the past nine years we have had to pass the law, we have passed a large number of laws that have improved the position of women and marginalised groups in Serbia. Now I'm going to say again what I didn't just say because I wanted to be politically correct. For example, when we passed law on the Committee on Gender Equality and wrote law in this assembly on gender equality, only the SRS did not participate. Ms. Jovanovic remembers this and even the SRS then refused to participate in the work of the Committee on Gender Equality at all, because Ms. Jovanovic herself, now she has the right to replication, came to the Committee meeting and said – we will not participate in the work of this committee because we believe that women are equal to us and that we do not need to continue to participate. It's the facts. Miss will now deny me, probably, but I have proof of that. There are records from the work back then. Now that you've started to deal with these issues is very good. I welcome that. I've already said it's very good that we've all worked together on this law and you didn't need this replica at all, because you've entered into another field of political debate. I'm not going to be a part of this. You're completely in the middle of nowhere, I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33043	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33044	I really don't know what would happen to you, colleague Stojanović-Plasic, if you open that question now, because you've mixed things up. First of all, it is not true at all, you know very well that there are no respected principles about then proportional representation, so the position was our political party, the SRS, not to participate in the work of individual committees, where we did not have adequate representation. Because it was the will of the majority, as Konstantinovic now will not accept the resignations of our colleagues. Why didn't you solidarity with your fellow citizen, Col. Dimitrijevic, to tell Ivanji and Suzanne Grubjesic – please enable them, they are members of the Administrative Committee, that the woman resigns? You can't force anyone to be a MP if you don't want to. Or Elena Christmas-Talian, who you know very well about, and you were then a member of the Committee when Miss Elena Christmas-Talian was president, or maybe you weren't, but anyway, you participated, you came to the sessions, because you're in that matter, and you say yourself, ever since you were a national MP, six years ago. We took responsibility next time, after the next election, and if you remember, when we got adequate representation, proportionate to our strength on all committees, so we insisted on that and colleague Elena Christmas-Talijan wanted to be president of the Committee on Gender Equality. We even raised a lot of questions, if you remember, as well as the violation of the rights of the lady from Kniæ who was on maternity leave when she was removed from office and we reacted. Therefore, I am not talking here at all about our desire to participate in these social progresses, which we need to make, but Mrs Paunovic told you that we as a party advocate equal equality between women and men. It's called gender equality. Here we talk about a less represented sex, and now we can talk about different spheres of social life, where there are more women and where men are. We don't want to bid on it. I think we're in a very concrete debate, the minister accepted most of our amendments, spoke from personal experience, about how these things move. Dr Paunović-Milosavljevic, not because he is from the SRS, but also because of that, after all, because it is our intensity, we always give this attention, securely and devotedly, working on this job from the moment she took over this committee and not only through the organization of these round tables, but through everything, and as a doctor and as a person who knows what it means when any group is discriminated in society, because she herself is a neuropsychiatist defined as helping people, and that is what most people need. So I think we should finish, because we all wanted to do the best we could, especially our party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33045	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33046	Article 39 speaks of the obligations of the local self-government body. In the bill of law, the Proposer forgot to include perhaps the most significant authorities or at least the most significant level when it comes to the application of this law, which will, of course, be voted upon and some other laws when it comes to preventing discrimination or gender equality. We have tried to give our amendment concrete content, because the formulations in the proposal itself are quite general and apply to all bodies of local self-government units. So, the proposal does not provide for the existence, the formation of special bodies of organs, faces, commissions, let's say, I know at this point about 40 cities and municipalities function, committees or commissions, but there is mostly some sort of permanent working body. Of course, we are aware that there must be savings, so this aman does not foresee the introduction of some new jobs, one or more persons, but we simply think that the authorities of local self-government where there are no such bodies so that they can solve it in such a way that some of the already existing organs or bodies, or even permanent working bodies in the SO could form such an organ. I will read what we believe should be added in this article: In the local self-government unit is educated body or appointed person for gender equality. The body or person for gender equality proposes measures and activities to achieve equal opportunities policy in the field of the unit of local self-government and has an advisory role in implementing solutions to achieve the objectives of this law. In the process of adopting development plans and other decisions, the authorities of the local self-government units shall consider the measures and activities proposed by the body or person for gender equality and, ultimately, that the statute of the local self-government unit is closer to regulating the choice, composition, jurisdiction and way of working of the body or persons for gender equality. If you noticed, we also use specific terms here. So, it proposes measures, this particular body, and not some at all, means all authorities of local self-government, propose or consider. So, with this amendment, we're trying to figure out somehow that in every local self-government, we know who is obliged to take care of how this law and some laws apply on the territory of that local self-government. We've already set up some mechanisms. In your ministry, there's the Agency for Gender Equality. There is a secretariat in the AP Vojvodina. There is also a Committee on Gender Equality in the Assembly. However, these are organs, or these levels are somehow quite far from an ordinary citizen. The local self-government is the one who has the best contact with citizens, and besides, it is the closest and the easiest person to think that it is disproved, discriminated or where legal obligations are not respected. There's this link, and it's the easiest thing to do is to exercise that right, or even point out some irregularities, then we'd get rid of it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33047	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33048	Mr. Minister, since this is the last amendment that the DSS parliamentary group has written on the bill, given that it is one of the really crucial members, I think it is time for me to do a little comment on that and somehow round up that story that we tried to tell as a parliamentary group, which in principle, while we were talking about concrete amendments. So my colleague Donka Banovic started this story. We really thought that the mechanisms at the local level were really skipped in this law. We thought they were extremely important. I see that all the other parliamentary groups were on the same track, because in fact, the law kind of flew, had institutional mechanisms on the republic, at the state level, but it didn't have those mechanisms at the bar. We felt that since the country that signed the 1995 Beijing Declaration, which is obliged to develop these mechanisms, therefore at the place, because these mechanisms are a condition for developing a policy of equal opportunities and gender equality, to actually provide these bodies, since the fact that 50 local self-government has formed bodies that concern gender equality and carry out extremely important activities. I will read to you only some of them – and the stands, and counselling, and promoting prevention from women's health, and connecting local institutions, police, centres for social work, health centres, courts, for greater efficiency in protecting the rights of women victims of domestic violence and opening SOS phones for women victims of violence, initiating the necessary decisions and finding donors to achieve safe homes for women and children, not reading everything, I think they are very important. I think we need to help these mechanisms really get in the law. Because why is it important to find them in the law? So to ensure their stability. If every political set that comes to power, let in local self-government, change the decision and there is no such working body, there is no group or commission, or whatever it will be called that body, it is very important that it exists in law, the obligations of local self-government, we have provided for the possibility that local self-government should be small, there is no means to place a person who will deal with it, and therefore we have very much signaled that you accept it, it doesn't have to be our amendment. We have worked out that amendment, but simply accept the amendment concerning the development of these mechanisms. We really welcomed it. I think it's important that I say another thing, however much in the course of the debate we talk about, what's wrong with the law, I think it's important to say that it's primarily your tolerance to accept the amendments and listen to what we're telling you, to convince you by the power of the argument that something is important and what you need to pay attention to. It is not often in the Assembly that ministers speak of the laws in this way. That is why I thank both your team and you for truly showing what work in the congregation looks like. I think it also helped us to sort of, this bill, which really had its faults, sort of fix it. On the other hand, at no time did the DSS question the reason why this law was passed. It is also important and that it is important, and we may be late in its adoption, but in any case it is valuable for society, as Serbia is and for improving the position of women in Serbia. That is why I think it is very important that we welcome the adoption and acceptance of these amendments that correct what we have indicated. That way simply, although I'm saying that I'm not sure where the text came from, I'd have to look at it, but in any case, it seems to me that this law has been corrected. That is why I believe that this amendment to Article 39, regardless of which group it came from, we accept that it is important and welcome that you accept it. On the other hand, I say again, and how important it is to pass this law because the position of a woman will change. We'll follow as much as we do, or we'll press you for percentages, even though I have to say - I didn't recognize myself in this Amazon, I didn't recognize that the author of this law was here amongst us, because he was hiding all the time and he wasn't coming, but in the end, it was revealed who was the author of the law – I'm kidding, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33049	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33050	I have also said in principle that we will accept the amendment of the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vesna Marjanovic, which is on the trail of your amendment. Article 3 is replaced by the following: In the bodies of the units of local self-government and within the framework of the existing organisation and internal organisation and systematization act, a permanent working body (or designated) shall be organised for gender equality and the pursuit of equal opportunities in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33051	At the disposal of MP Milici Vojic-Markovic is another minute and 50 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment is similar to the previous amendment, and I'm glad the minister accepted the previous amendment, but I would look back briefly. On the draft bill, I submitted an amendment to Article 39, which I asked for the third word "review" to be replaced by the word "incentive". The government rejected the amendment with a reason not to contribute precisely to the text of the bill. The SRS considers that units of local self-government should actively encourage mechanisms for gender equality, not only, as stated in Article 3(3) of Article 39, to consider measures and activities that are in the function of gender equality and the achievement of equal opportunities, because if local self-government units are left to freedom under their jurisdiction in implementing policies in areas related to gender equality, and all in accordance with international standards and solutions in parallel legislation, then they cannot only consider measures and activities in the function of gender equality, but must actively encourage and design, propose and enable the achievement of mechanisms and measures and activities to ensure gender equality. In principle, it was noted that it was high time for this law to be passed, not only that it requires the EU from Serbia, but also because it was necessary to regulate the area. Regardless of the fact that we are all aware that the path to gender equality is very long and that as long as the laws contain the term "lower gender", which means women, there is a persistent work to be done on the adoption of legislation that will lead to respect for Articles 15 and 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I call on the minister to reconsider this and similar amendments and to make the quality and applicability of this law available to him last night, with the adoption of this amendment specificising the role of local self-government in ensuring gender equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33053	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted the amendment. On this amendment, Minister Rasim Ljajic spoke little of the amendment that was accepted, as regards obligations for local self-government units. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33054	I have submitted an amendment to article 42 relating to associations. Associations aim to improve gender equality, have the right to monitor gender equality and point to discrimination, and to draw up and publish a report on their findings. It's in the first place. In the third position, it says that the associations of Article 1 have their representatives in the working body of the Government, responsible for gender equality which educates and whose members are appointed by the Government. I wanted to say that the government has its own mechanisms for achieving gender equality. It's a tip for gender equality whose representative here today is the secretary of state. Then, the birth equality administration, it is also Mrs Milutinovic's representative. However, what I can say is humiliating for this respected home is that in no member of this law you have accepted that the Committee on Gender Equality, or a parliamentary mechanism for achieving an improvement of gender equality and for monitoring the process of implementation is not included in this law. We as the Committee on Gender Equality have submitted an amendment. I hope you adopt that amendment. The SRS MP in Article 52 also submitted an amendment to the function of the Committee on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33055	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33056	This amendment is the principled position of the SRS. All Ministers, whenever a law was passed here, we warned of Article 136(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which marks the state administration as a state body, and by no means a minister as an individual. This member has several views and you have well written the powers of the Ministry under this member of the law, but you have added the power of the minister who is anti-constitutional. You said here in your explanation that it was in accordance with Article 23(2). The Law on State Administration, and we have been trying for a long time to draw attention to that particular member of the Law on State Administration, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because you ministers are state officials and you cannot assume the authority of the Ministry which is a legal person, which is the authority of the state administration. Since this is the last amendment I have submitted, I would just draw attention to you, Mr. Ljajic, if you were the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. There's been a lot of nice words here about it, it's wonderful, it's good that we're discussing this law today. We think it would be much better if you came out here, to come up with a proposal to solve a drastic social situation in the state of Serbia. We've often listened to you in the media, you've made it seem like you're an opposition. The only thing we expect from you as a minister is to solve these problems and it would be more useful to discuss what will happen to these several thousand people who will lose their jobs in the state administration and local self-government and justice, what are the solutions to their social situation and their existence. We hope that such solutions will soon be found before parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33057	Adding a new VIa head and new members 51a, 51b, 51v and 51g. The amendment, which adds the new VIa head and the new members of 51a, 51b, 51v and 51g, was submitted by the MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, Natasa Micic's MP submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Consultations with the Minister, amendment to Article 52. I have no information that the government has accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Gender Equality, submitted the amendment to Article 52. In order not to remain unclear, consultations are because the amendment is almost identical to the amendment submitted by the National MP Natasa Micic, which in this case, since there have been several similar amendments, has been resorted to a business opportunity for the Committee to bring together an amendment that would essentially add to the content essentially similar to the amendment of different MPs from different parliamentary groups. On the basis of Article 52, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33058	And this amendment of the SRS is in principle similar to the amendment we hear proposed by the Committee and later adopted by the Proposer. We certainly suggested that the ministry submit a report to the relevant assembly committee by 31 January of the current year for the previous year. This is not the first law, nor is it the only law that has entered the assembly procedure, and that the proposer somehow bypasses the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the body that laws and adopts it. Of course, they have shown good will in this regard and it has been amended by this amendment. But personally, I don't think the Assembly Committee has made a small contribution, if I may say so, not only in the process of adopting this law, but in affirmation at all, and gender equality as the Europeans like to say. I think that's why the Assembly should be given this way through this committee in order for us to be familiar with what the government is doing in the course of one year, applying the laws to which it is bound in this assembly. Just before there were some comments that have somehow questioned the SRS' sense of this topic again. Of course, it's not so important that someone realized or experienced that here we are, and now in the SRS we're supposed to be interested in this subject and say it's very good. Maybe that's a good thing. But what's wrong? It is a bad thing that we are referred to by people who for nine years in Serbia are a permanent exercise of power, and after nine years we are told that women in Serbia are discriminated against. We cannot share such an attitude that women in Serbia are discriminated against. We don't dispute the fact, we don't dispute the data, we don't dispute the statistics that indicate, if I may say so, that women in certain sectors and different areas and activities are really less represented than men's world. I also said in a principle debate on behalf of the SRS that statistics here are ungrateful and that how many women are somewhere, if I may say, or should I say - discriminated, under the precepts, then in some areas, it's really men. We do not think that Serbia, regardless of what we think of this, previous governments, is about the policy being led in Serbia to create an overall, social and economic and economic environment, we do not think that Serbia is in this sense not a country that cannot stand up. The statistics I tried to present to the Assembly in the principle debate, where much more developed, more seriously, in that sense, the wealthier states than we, God forbid, are far below on the scale below the Republic of Serbia. I think it is a very ungrateful and casual qualification that women in Serbia are discriminated against. Of course, due to my obligations, I lost my chance and the opportunity to comment on some other amendments, and of course, now I will only now, within the time of the authorised representative, remind myself. I think that through several members, as far as I can tell, the government's representative has been determined to accept several more amendments to the SRS. I think there was a chance that at least two more amendments would be accepted. I think a selective approach has been shown through these amendments, which I also pointed out in last night's debate. I think you've selectively treated some, as you called them formulations and elements, especially what you've tried to induce under stereotypes and prejudice. Personally, I don't think that, as you said in this explanation, we are at the level of social development, where these terms will be able in an adequate way to be used and applied in this law. I don't think there's a unique system of values in relation to this topic in the Republic of Serbia, that this application of this law in that area would be appropriate and I think that it might create some dilemmas, some doubt, and that, over time and through the application of this law, some might feel that their rights and freedoms that the Constitution guarantees and foresees are in some way threatened and challenged, because what is for one system of values of stereotype and prejudice, for others is a model of life, something they think is right and is okay. That's why we believe, the SRS believes that the state, the legislator of this law, had to find more adequate qualifications. We think that you should make the terminology in this law compatible with time, relationships, and the level of development of this society today in Serbia. And then I think the overall effect of adopting and applying this law would be different and greater. This is how we think it's just something that can be reduced to trying, that it won't give those final effects and results that maybe it should give as one law, as something that needs to qualify this country again, in a more advanced, or more affirmative way. After all, it would be one general SRS grudge against this law. I would once again take advantage of the opportunity and just invite the government's representatives to reconsider the amendment relating to health care, because we believe that this proposed solution is not defined in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33059	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Gender Equality, submitted an amendment to Article 53. This amendment will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day. On Article 54 of the amendment, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Gender Equality, submitted an amendment to Article 54. On the 54th amendment, he is a non-national MP, Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33060	The SRS parliamentary group is not the only parliamentary group to whom it has intervened with the amendment to this member of the law. We think the measures, the criminal provisions you've provided for in the solution, the law, are really inadequate. First of all, we intend to comply with the Labour Act, Articles 2, 7, 3 and all of these articles from 18 to 21. Of course, we believe that, to say the criminal provisions, that is, the penalties you provide for these offences are absolutely inadequate, especially because of the fact that the violations are potentially related and the things that can be undermined. On the other hand, it's objectively questionable, and I also put it in principle debate, how far in the area of the judiciary are we prepared to apply this law? There's a lot going on in Serbia today in the area. The topic today is the current point of choice, possibly re-election, and there are a bunch of cases in the area of criminal proceedings that could be cited and used for this purpose, where the judiciary does not respond and adequate practices, in principle, show that when these offences are at stake, usually judges at these local and lower levels, determine that those who need to be punished punish themselves with the lowest amounts. These sums provided by law are really inadequate, from 10, so the range is large, up to 100,000. First we tried to reconcile it, then of course we tried to comply with the Labour Act, and it seems to us that our solutions are better than those that are within the law. I do not know what amendments have been accepted by the Committee, i.e. in what sense these amendments have been made. Now I hear the board proposed them. I don't know what it's about, how we haven't had a chance to see it, but the proposing representatives, the competent ministry, should really reconsider this. If the State does not provide for criminal measures in an adequate manner, it would question the proper application of this law. We think that this should be reconsidered and, I repeat again, I hope that by reviewing this law, it will also be complete, that it will bring about a single level that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33061	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33062	Mrs. Komic, I would not really like to abuse the Rules of Procedure, just to say that our colleague Stevanovic wanted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which he said, to apply our principle that the laws must be respected. The amendment was thus accepted that the Committee had a control function and that a report was submitted. This is about the difference, it was about some more compromise solution. However, I again urge MPs to vote in the voting day, they can decide either on the amendment of the committee or on the amendment of counterpart Stevanovic. His fines are higher, the amount of the maximum penalty of the Committee is 500,000, with his colleague, Stevanovic 800, and where they predicted 500, he predicted a million. He who breaks the law must pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33063	The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Minister Rasim Ljajic, want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33064	Just to thank, above all, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Serbian Parliament, to thank all MPs, especially those who have proposed amendments. I hope that in the voting day we will have absolute support for the adoption and adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33065	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I thank all the participants in the debate in particular and in principle, when it comes to this bill, whose search we have just completed. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in principle, detail, and general. We move to the 24th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Peace on Peace (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted to the Bill by Members of the People: Milisav Petronijevic, Mirko Munjic, joint MPs Jovan Palalić and Milica Vojić-Marković, joint MPs Saša Maksimović, Dragan Colić and Zoran Antić, then Sreto Perić, joint MPs Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Gojko Radić and Zoran Antić, National MP Aleksandar Martinović, National MP Vjerica Radet, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Boris Committeeić, joint MPs Zoran Babik, Milena Miladinović, Ljiljana Miladinović and Zoran Antić, National Ambassador of the People's Republic of Ljubljana and the Republic of Slovenia. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Djordje Milicevic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 12. Proposal for a law, and MP Milan Nikolic – an amendment that he proposed to add new members of 12a and 12b after Article 12. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that representatives for the 24th item of the agenda are MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP New Serbia, MP Judita Popovic, MP group LDP, MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP group SPS-JS, MP Jovan Palalic, MP group DSS-Vojslav Kostunica, MP Zoran Antic, MP for Serbia, MP for Serbia, MP for Jovan Nesovic, MP for G17 Plus, MP for the G17 Plus, MP for the SRS, MP for the SRS and MP Vlatko Ratkovic, MP for the ZES Group. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33066	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 1 given that the Government has given a very reasoned explanation that I accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33067	I find that MP Milisav Petronijevic withdrew the amendment and he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33068	Mrs. Komic, after this time of two minutes, I will use the time I have as party representative. Mr. Minister, by amendment to Article 2 of this bill, we have tried to extend the concept of individual dispute. Without wanting to make it less important, for example. Those things that you have accepted in terms of extending the individual dispute, such as regression, warm meal, etc., I believe that by extending the concept of individual dispute, in terms of the provisions of this law, the proposal to extend the individual dispute, as requested by these amendments, would lead to one broader protection of the rights of those workers who are at risk with two more cases. The first case we suggested would be a case of unpaid earnings, that the concept of individual dispute spreads, and in the case of absolutely unpaid earnings by the employer. The second case we suggested would be a case of payment of the difference between contracted and paid earnings. If a little peek at the legal basis of tens and hundreds of thousands of cases from work relations or execution cases based on debt from working relations, whose courts in Serbia are indeed buried, you can see that the disputes on these two grounds are the most numerous. So, the employer takes the worker into a working relationship, concludes with him a contract that provides for a certain income, a certain salary for his work, so he doesn't pay after months, until the worker reacts and he addresses the court, for example. That's the first case. Another case is that he only pays part of that profit compared to that contracted earnings. Some of this difference I mentioned now pays off in cash, they pay off on their hands. It's well-known for all of us, and this is usually about management personnel who tend to avoid paying pension and disability contributions on a larger basis, on a real basis, according to which they should be paid. Workers need to know only one thing – that there are two ways to be deceived in this case. The first way they believe what they're not, and the other way they refuse to believe what they are. Here, let me get this straight. So, workers who are in dispute with their employer, especially those when it comes to disputes in mafia privatisations of certain enterprises, these workers should not believe in what they are not, and it is not this law that will solve their sufferings, which will give them back, therefore, their unpaid profits. Another case, workers who are in these disputes, do not let them convince you to refuse to believe what you are, which is this law, as well as other laws, such as the Information Act, for example, such as the decision to ban gathering before the Serbian government dissatisfied workers and other state institutions. So these decisions, like other regulations, are only the means that the government is actually trying to channel your justifiable dissatisfaction, to channel dissatisfaction and to prevent your gathering. The workers need to know something else. The essence of this law is nothing more than to try to prevent greater gatherings of unsatisfactory workers or to leave them with some kind of hope that they will exercise their rights out of working relations through some peacemakers or arbiters, therefore, peacefully. But these workers need to know one thing, which is that it's the hope they're left with, hope is a good breakfast, but believe it's a very weak dinner. It's hard to work without receiving any compensation for your work or receiving only half the fee, so, exactly what we're asking for with this amendment. It's hard to keep it together and keep it together and keep it all going. I'm going to give an example of this expression. When Bismark, for the second time, went to the emperor and asked him to be relieved by the office of the Chancellor, he told him - sir, I'm 18 years older than you and I'm still riding. This one tells him, yes, always a rider lasts longer than a horse. Mr. Minister, how will workers who have their legitimate demands, how will workers who have not been paid for months, even for years, endure all this? Did you know that these profits that were to be paid may be the only source of their income, not perhaps, but in most cases they are the only source of their income? So collective and individual labour disputes are disputes that have escalated after the proceedings very often mafialy derived privatisations that we are all aware of, some of them have been annulled, some still need to be annulled, and many are believed never to be annulled. The peaceful resolution of labour disputes, whether collective or individual, aims to prevent in some way or to warn something that may have the character of less or more restless disputes, which would result from working relationships. Why are there even disputes between employers and workers? You know, the state of Serbia is going through a difficult period of functioning of some form of civil state in which a desire for power, unfortunately, a desire for capital, a desire for chairing, for belongings, has severely suppressed the care of workers' rights, for children's rights, for the rights of single mothers, for the rights of all others that arise from working relationships or in general, all the rights that exist within this legal system. Not to mention the rights of care for the health of the nation, the rights to preserve cultural heritage, the rights to preserve national identity. You know, Jean Jacques Russo said in a book called "The Thinkings of the Origin of Imequities" roughly like this: "The first one to come up with a piece of land and say, "That's mine, he's the first beginner of that civil society. '"That civil society, he continues, is based, says, on the constant war and kidnapping of the rich, as well as the raiding of the poor. What's going on with us? The moment the government, after ending over 80% of the privatisation of social and state-owned enterprises, left in greater care of the socio-economic map of employers, when the state simply closes its eyes to the senseless layoffs of employees, despite firm privatisation contracts or relatively firm privatisation contracts, so when the state simply grumbles in front of unpaid earnings of workers, unpaid hot meals, when workers in certain privatised enterprises cannot achieve their basic, nor their minimum rights, appears, ladies and gentlemen, truly, but believe me, a fair need for conflicts, for conflicts due to non-compliance with fundamental labour rights. These conflicts can be manifested through various kinds of protests, through various types of civil disobedience, etc. So the fear of escalating these protests forces the authorities to try to resolve these procedures from working relationships in other ways, to try to solve the accumulated problems with some other methods, and one of these methods is this law on peaceful work dispute resolution. Hoping that the legislator's intention was at least a little sincere and not only calculated on a certain prevention of escalating conflict, but also on a genuine protection of workers' rights, through one comprehensive protection of their rights, we have submitted some amendments, with the desire primarily to extend the concept of individual dispute, in terms of the provisions of this law, but also to clarify some concepts, make it understandable, etc. However, your incomprehension does not concern us. We're used to this misunderstanding. We are simply more concerned about the fate of those to whom this law applies. So, the fate of employees who or who have already lost their jobs, the fate of those tens and tens of them, not to say hundreds of thousands of workers, who are in labor disputes because simply employers have not settled their obligations or settled their obligations, but not in the extent that they are bound by the regulations. That fate, believe me, these workers aren't even a little pink. It's just like in some of his thoughts, Petefi says, "My destiny always gives me a spoon when I don't have soup or soup when I don't have a spoon." Since these workers really need to be clear, because what they are owed and what they are trying to charge through resolution and peaceful means is the only source of their existence. Ladies and gentlemen, a similar fate has been met by some workers of individual centres and institutes in the state of Serbia, centres and institutes in which the state is the sole owner, in which the state is the sole employer of these workers. I will mention only one example in this exhibition, which is the Center for Potatoes in Guca, a centre where Serbia is the sole owner of this company, an employer. Ladies and gentlemen, 18 months' staff at this center have not received any salary. They're cut off by electricity. They work in conditions that are unworthy men. I repeat, the state here is the only and only owner of this center. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever considered whether these workers are allowed in the right way to express their dissatisfaction, whether these workers are allowed to express their revolt in the way they should express it? You know, there are few of them in this center and I'm sure they're prevented psychologically from expressing their revolt, their dissatisfaction with this. Gentlemen of the government, how would you feel if you didn't receive your salary for just 18 days, not 18 months, like these workers, whose owner is the sole employer of the state. How would you feel if now, in the winter period, you were cut off by electricity for just 18 days, not more? Would you like to go out to the streets, gentlemen of the government? Would you ask for an arbiter or a peacemaker to resolve these conflicts of yours? A passage from some of the ancient books and the Old Testament says, "Don't long for the king's table; for yours is a hundred higher than their tables, and your crown greater than their crowns. Yours is a faithful employer who will pay you for your work." Ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of thousands of disreputed workers do not long for the king's table, hundreds of thousands of these disreputed workers only want the last verses of this paragraph to be realized, that the employer should pay them for their work. Will this law come true for them? It will not, because the primary objective of this law, as well as many other regulations, the Law on Information, the decision to ban gathering in front of the Government and other institutions, is simply to prevent the consequences of the unwanted gathering of these dissatisfied workers, and it knows this power from its own experience in which it can escalate that dissatisfaction. You know, with you in the power of Serbian citizens, it's only now that it becomes clear that when you fall into the water, you get angry at yourself, not at the stream.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33069	Time has been spent on an authorised member of the parliamentary group and on an amendment for two minutes. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? Mr Meso Omerovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33070	Mr Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, decided at its session to submit an amendment to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace resolution of Work Disputes, in accordance with Article 2. The bill, which we propose to change, reads: "Article 3rd paragraph 1 after the word "slow about" adds the words "discrimination and abuse at work", and after the words "work and contract" the words "negotiation and" are added. "I will try to take your attention briefly to explain this amendment to the Committee. In light of the increase in labour discrimination disputes, which we have heard little about in the presentation of the esteemed colleague, Munjic, during employment and during work, expecting disputes about labour abuse, under the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse, the amendment introduces another kind of individual work dispute, which is a dispute over discrimination and abuse at work. With this in mind, I think it is essential and economical that the alternative dispute resolution process be taken over by the Dispute Resolution Agency, since the only institution dealing with the non-judicial settlement of labour disputes in Serbia, as well as that the arbitration procedure before the Agency fully meets both the most standards and principles of peaceful dispute settlement in the EU, equally protecting both the rights and interests of employers and the rights of those who are employed. The EU's practice also confirmed the benefits of the non-judicial settlement of this type of savings, speed and efficiency dispute, contrary to the court's decision under the provisions of the laws that apply to us on the litigation process. I think this amendment to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs will also contribute to treating work abuse in a way that is foreseen by the proposed Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33071	The word is Mr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33072	We accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33073	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33074	We accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33075	Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33076	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, his associate, I see that women sit here neatly when some law government defends, mostly women stay, it was interesting for me to hear that the government has accepted an amendment to Mr. Petronivic's 2nd member because when I read his amendment and read the amendment that Mr. Jovan Palalic submitted, these two amendments are the same, to say that there is a very small difference. It seems that the question of where the amendment came from was crucial, although in an explanation, to be precise, his amendment came first, which is, of course, ridiculous and unconditionally debated. We are not running a race so that we can count on the time we arrive, but the amendments are being debated at the same time, so how were you, Minister, tolerant in the previous law, while you defended it, really commended that tolerance, so you accepted amendments if they were identical with the different MPs, I do not see what it is disputed that such two amendments in the same text are accepted. One was accepted, one was rejected, although it is exactly the same, with an explanation -- the amendment is not accepted because the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic, which is essentially identical, was submitted before this amendment to the same member. It's completely pointless to discuss. What did we want with this amendment? We wanted to extend the application of the procedure for peaceful settlement of individual labour disputes, to extend it to disputes arising from the cancellation of the labour contract or disputes arising from the payment of minimum earnings, to extend it to disputes arising from the exercise of the individual rights listed in this amendment. We actually wanted to increase the level of protection of workers, because it is very important that in these and these circumstances in which the state of Serbia has increased the level of protection of workers. It is obvious that both the transition and all these processes that are happening in Serbia, both the squishy and the incompetent government, allowed workers to be completely disproved. Really completely decomposed. The degree of protection under the circumstances of the economic crisis would have to be increased. Social measures must be the subject of both this assembly and the government, something called a serious dialogue of the position, i.e. the authorities, the opposition and, above all, the unions. From all the examples that have been here so far, we can see that's not the case. What did we want? This is, on the one hand, for the benefit of workers, but it is also for the benefit of employers. Employers will get a lot of money in this way because, first of all, they will come up with faster solutions. This is in the interest of the economy. On the other hand, this amendment relieves the courts. A large number of work disputes are being conducted before the courts. You can see the situation of the courts from January 1st. Traveling prosecutors, traveling judges, traveling lawyers, traveling parties. It'll be a traveling circus. Imagine now that this large number of work disputes, which are not cheap at all, lasts about three years and costs about 5,000 euros. It's not short, it's not cheap. We want to unload the dishes. On the other hand, the government's interest is to accept this amendment. We really don't think there's any reason you shouldn't accept it, because you accepted the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33077	It was used two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Palalic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33078	I would like to refer to these amendments and the additions to the laws that are absolutely important and to what was adopted in 2004 in the National Assembly, which is the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, which played its part, in a period of time when social tensions and tensions in Serbia were incomparably smaller and when disputes between employers and employees were such that they could be the subject of a discussion by the Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. The law was passed in 2004. At that time, the Government of the DSS was with our coalition partners, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, with the aim of removing cases concerning labour disputes in some way from courts and thus, not only to dissipate in working-law disputes in courts, but to resolve these issues in a different atmosphere, defined as individual disputes. One of my colleagues mentioned here, I think I said that in my opening debate, that over three and a half thousand individual disputes were resolved and 30 collective labour disputes were settled, and certainly during that period, the Agency and this law had an effect. I want to say what kind of atmosphere this bill is being adopted in, and in that sense I am expressing concern and the impression is that it will not give the effect it had in the previous period. It is expected from the government and the ministry themselves to go to the National Assembly with a clear strategy for accumulated social problems and employment in Serbia. I have the impression that a good part of these issues, which should be a comprehensive package when it comes to employment, has moved out of your ministry, not because employment is the responsibility of another ministry, but because to the greatest extent of employment issues in a situation where businesses are ahead of bankruptcy and when we are in a situation of major layoff, these issues become issues in the jurisdiction of your ministry and become issues of social policy and social responsibility of the government. These issues are most addressed by the second ministry, which makes new employment rules even more burdensome and more difficult in Serbia. The Law on the Employment of Persons, whose day we are marking, is mentioned here, but we are deeply convinced, our parliamentary group, that this law will not give any effect except for new, large costs and burdens for the state, because this law has one single goal, that it forms new agencies that will be financed from the RS budget and be financed by the burden of those whose rights are being reduced. Mr. Minister, this government is a government that reduces the number of rights that have been defined in the previous period, namely the unemployed, people who are left out of a job, both receiving from the Labour Market and Receipt Office as regards those employees who are going to lose their jobs in this state-run firing process and local self-government, and these are employees who are not assigned. Instead of six months, they'll be eligible for two months. Another problem is the problem of social dialogue, and in principle, this topic was launched and I did not get an answer to the question that I asked then, and I want to say to this occasion that the absence of social dialogue has been manifested at this session as well. I believe that all parliamentary groups received letters from the unions of staff in the administration, justice and social organisations of Serbia, concerning the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the state administration and local self-government, where union representatives clearly say that the solutions concerning a large number of jobless employees were learned from the media. It is absolutely inadmissible to talk in this way to union representatives who define employees' interests, because they are the only ones legally appropriate to define employees' interests, and as regards people who are going to lose their jobs mass, I say, in the state administration and local self-government, and to a large extent this is happening in the real sector, which will certainly, the next point is the bankruptcy law, to enable, unfortunately, a large number of people to lose their jobs. The question arises, in a situation where you don't have social dialogue, when a large number of people are out of work, when the judiciary is under arrest, what methods of social struggle will those whose rights are denied benefit? Will it be a peaceful settlement of work disputes? He won't. At the very least, it will be, although this law is trying to correct the practice that has been in the past four years and it is good that some amendments have been accepted. We think that the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group, as well as the colleagues of Petronijevic, had to be accepted, because these are entirely identical amendments. It is a good thing that the issues that are being resolved in individual work disputes are being extended. In any case, radicalisation and methods of combating those who remain and deny their rights will be left without a job so that a peaceful settlement of work disputes will be avoided. This law will not cause any effect. There's no effect in that sense. It'll remain an empty letter on the paper. When it comes to the situation in other powers, where layoffs are expected, in addition to reducing rights, rights are diminished, and you are the government minister who made the decision, and now we have a large number of undeveloped municipalities that have requested meetings in the government today, which have reduced transfer funds and municipalities will be collapsed and there will be a new discharge, past the law that allows you to fire. A large number of these municipalities will face bankruptcy at the end of this year and there will be new layoffs, because the rights of local self-government have been reduced. I ask you to make an effort and that the burden of the problem you have in the government to define social policy is not on local self-government, to find one third of Serbia tomorrow in a blockade, and this will be suffered directly by citizens who exercise their rights and their right to local self-government. When it comes to social bargaining, I would like to get the information here in the National Assembly, I believe that most MPs also want to know -- how many border collective agreements have been concluded and what protection of employees' rights, when it comes to certain branches of industry; how many individual collective agreements have been concluded? Because if citizens, employees, are not in a position to be protected in this way, how will they be able in a direct collision with the employer, where interests are completely different, to protect their rights? Because it's natural for employees to address their union organizations. Under the Social Economic Council, such dialogue is expected to lead to a situation where collective agreements are concluded so that the law can apply to closed collective agreements. In any case, regardless of what this law, and through these accepted amendments, can respond to some of the doubts which were in the application of the 2004 law, he in this situation, in this atmosphere of social tensions, the absence of hearing from the Government about these problems, citizens who have not been paid earnings, no severance payments have been paid, privatisations have been annulled, they resort to radical methods, because they do not have protection through collective contracts, they do not have the ability to pressure employers to fulfil their rights and their obligations to employees. Not an employee will address the peacemakers, will not address the courts in the extreme line, which will go into total chaos as of January 1st, but will turn to the street and lead to new problems and new earthquakes in Serbia, because the government has found no answer to any problem concerning social policy, although it has defined itself as a socially responsible government, in order to turn into a government that reduces the rights and eventually the government that is firing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33079	Ten minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the MPs' group. The minister answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33080	As for the conclusion of border collective agreements, you are unfortunately right, since we only have two border collective agreements in the area of economy, for catering and tourism and one for estranged artists. The situation is significantly better when it comes to public services, where we have eight closed border collective agreements - for education, basic and medium and high, then institutions of the student standard, scientific and research institutes, then, a border collective contract for state authorities, for local self-government, social protection institutions and, last one that was concluded 15 days ago, in the area of culture. What concerns is a small number of closed border collective agreements in the economy. Negotiations are under way to conclude four more branch collective agreements in important activities, such as construction, metal industry, food industry, and I expect that at least two of these four will be completed very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33081	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic, Mileta Knezevic, Dragan Colic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word is Mr. Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm almost certain you'll accept this amendment to the SRS, but we can't praise you because then you think it's mature to have another party. Let's go back to this amendment to the SRS, which was submitted to Article 3. Proposal for a law on peaceful dispute resolution. Mr Ljajic, for the first time, the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution was brought in 2004, when you were a member of the Council of Ministers. Personally, the SRS would like to have you there today or if there was someone else, if there were something like that, or if there was a federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. What was the motive of that time, of those who were proposing this law? It was a motive to prevent any collective gathering or any attempt to solve certain problems, which even then, and today, to a much greater extent, had or had employees. Some who were employed at the time are not and they are subject to certain rights, and the state is unable to resolve them. It won't be possible for the Peace resolution Agency to resolve a lot of issues. Here, you have seen only one of the cases, i.e. the construction-industry combination “1. May" from Lapov did not help the Agency. You took that participation, you tried to do something that was possible, but it doesn't seem to go the best way. This can only serve as an auxiliary tool, as a small instrument for solving a large number of problems. But the motives, I don't think they're you, you want to move it out of the government framework. He can't do that. That's not possible. The government has to do a lot more to make this auxiliary body, let's call it an auxiliary body, occasionally in a position to solve these problems. Before I comment on Article 3 of the SRS amendment, I must agree that it is good at this attempt. What will be the consequences in practice, it remains to be seen. Mr. Petronivic's amendment was accepted, and the same text was submitted by colleagues from the DSS, as many questions were addressed to the Agency with such demands. You see, the company owes them a profit for four years, as well as a warm meal and a regress. Is it possible to resolve this dispute through the Agency? The Agency’s reply — in accordance with Article 196. The Law on the work of the "Official Messenger" and that, all monetary claims from the working relationship become obsolete within three years of the date of the commitment. So you can exercise the right to minimum earnings for three years from the date of submission of the proposal to the Agency, so the Agency will resolve this, and the Agency is competent in individual disputes only for the payment of minimum earnings and cancellation of the labour contract. So other money rights, these are travel rights, warm-food rights, higher than minimum earnings, can only be settled in court proceedings. When you proposed amendments to the law, you didn't propose this. But anyway, you removed your recklessness. If it can be solved, it'll be good. When I claimed that you would accept this amendment, you really have no reason not to accept it. Staying in the O.R. here, when the second law was on the agenda, I saw your readiness for what's logical, for what's good, that you accepted. Now in a very simple way, I'm going to show you that this amendment is better than the proposed solution. You intervened with Article 3 and with regard to Article 4 of the basic law and the proposal is something better, which is – the calming of this law is the procedure in which the peacemaker provides assistance to the parties in a collective dispute with the aim of concluding a dispute settlement agreement or in which the peacemaker makes recommendations to the parties in the collective dispute on how to resolve the dispute. We have proposed a change of attitude of Article 1 and it is – the calming within the meaning of this law is the procedure in which the peacemaker provides, you say help, we intervene and say – professional assistance to parties in a collective dispute with the aim of concluding a dispute settlement agreement and giving expert opinion to the parties in the dispute over the consequences of the non- lasting of such agreement. You did not accept this amendment, and in your explanation you said the following - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the assistance provided by the peacemaker to the parties in the dispute is not merely professional assistance. The role of the peacemaker is to influence the parties in the dispute with their knowledge, authority and other personal properties in order to reach an agreement and thus to settle their dispute peacefully. The obligation of the Peacekeeper to carry out its duties effectively professionally, impartially, resulting from other legal provisions. This is not about other legal provisions, but about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Peace resolution of disputes. Let me give you an example. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, is both professional and good, and safe and responsible. I take my opinion, I think it's undivided here, that we all feel the same way, but if they asked me if he was expert in going to the VMA or the Clinical Center and treating people there, I'd be the first one against it. So it takes expertise, it's not just enough of this. What you're saying is that it's meant to be, it's derived from some other laws, and in this law it should say that the person who prefers or who will be the arbiter must first of all be professional. Otherwise, you have several incompatible provisions in this law. In Article 20 or 48 of the Law, you intervened only in one piece, who can be a peacemaker and who can be an arbitration officer when it comes to citizenship. This law was passed in 2004, when there was a second country which many participants in today's government hastily degraded and destroyed, so Serbia's citizenship, not Serbia-Montenegro's citizenship, was changed, but it remained that the peacemaker and arbiter could be those persons who, in addition, have high professional training and five years of work experience in the field of work and employment. Then you say to the arbiter that he needs to have a legal exam or that he's a regular professor of law school. In order for someone to pass and access a judicial exam, they need to be a graduate lawyer. You can see that this article here in 48th on setting the conditions isn't exactly the happiest solution, it had to be intervened. So, when it comes to arbitration, the conditions, when it comes to the peacemaker, are the others, because the decisions of the peacekeepers can become a forceful, executive, non-necessary, that's where they intervene in another way. Mr. Minister, you're still gonna take it all the way, but I need to be the Minister of Labour and Social Policy's competent minister to bring up a problem that you may not have met. Jurors in court, I have no exact record of how many have been engaged in Serbia so far, you know that as of January 1st, a large number of municipal courts will cease to exist, but it is certain that this figure is not small, if I tell you that 57 jurors have been engaged in one court so far. They have not received compensation for their engagement in those courts since September, with reasons that they cannot expect it even until January, for all these months that were after August. In addition, the High Council of the Judiciary has issued a competition for jurors despite certain conditions that should be met in order to be able to apply for applications, and to apply for confidence in general health skills, which, in my knowledge, cost an average of around 3,500 dinars and there are a number of other costs, and in most cases, persons who do not have any employment have been hired. It's a big expense and it wouldn't be a problem that after the reception, after certainness that they'd be jurors needs that condition too. We are chosen by the National Assembly of Ministers, we are not required to have any confidence in general health skills, and perhaps we should first examine it, and then the National Assembly will only vote on it. Is there enough reason to accept the amendment? I think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33083	Eight minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33084	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that this law is important to the Serbian government also shows signatures in a letter, in an accompanying act that the Serbian government passed along with the law to the National Assembly. There are first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, then Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, with the presence of Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. With such authority, of course, the Assembly must consider this law very seriously. There's something not clear to me in the name of the law itself. The law says it's a peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Contrary to the peaceful resolution of labour disputes is a restless settlement of work disputes, which means that those to whom this law applies should act in a way that I will explain a little later. The minister of information said there are more than 700,000 people at the border of existence, Minister Ljajic. The ones below the limit of existence didn't count, and at least twice as many. This disquieting work dispute resolution could apply to them, because at some other time they were all declared black, bad, working and having such salaries and having social, pension, or not, and then being regulated. They also had health insurance, etc. Now, in the Burazer privatisation, where everything that worked more or less successfully in this country was sold, these people were out of work, so the martyrs tried to crucify the tents and sit in front of the park presidency for a year, in front of the Serbian Representation, and as you saw, the wrong procedure was for them. To turn to the court, they also could not reach their rights, and then this should be the opposite of a peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Perhaps it praises a law on the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, and this should literally mean -- a stick in your hands and drive out of the factory of those who bought the factories in a two- or three-euro burazer privatisation or for several thousand euros. What does this law really want? If we go back a little bit, so let's see that, besides the entire administration, the state was formed somewhere around 140 agencies, institutions and other bodies, the auxiliary bodies that start or don't yet start or start acting sloppyly, it turns out that the basic reason for law-making is the security of jobs to the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. When we look at the explanation, there is no marked party, there are reasons for the law being passed, so the third paragraph says - however, it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes and encourage social partners to settle their disputes peacefully, with the help of the peacemakers and the arbitrationists. This is where you said everything. A formed agency, an employee professional or less professional, was irrelevant, how important it was to have a membership card from one of the parties in this coalition in power, and now people have no business. If someone doesn't trust the court, because his trial goes on for a few years until he gets rid of it, they won't trust this agency either. It says - this law will extend the types of labour disputes, collective, individual, which can be resolved in accordance with this law, will allow other parties in the dispute, in addition to participants in the conclusion of a collective contract, in accordance with this law to settle labour disputes peacefully, etc. If they had been able to with these of yours who bought the factories to settle the dispute, they wouldn't have come to this, then the most peaceful solution of work disputes would have been to keep these people working, that those who bought the factories started production, to honor the contracts they signed when they bought these companies, and everything would be less okay. Let's just ignore for a moment how privatisation is over, and even today in businesses, even in public enterprises, you have a situation where people are very easy, in the most brutal way, to lose their jobs. I know the case of a man who worked at City Traffic and who the union sent to the spa. The day he was supposed to go to the spa, he got sick, he took medication, he drank pills, those three days he didn't show up at the spa, he didn't even show up at work and he got fired. It may be according to the Labour Act and correct, but according to one other law, human, God's law, it seems to me wrong. Okay, when laws like this are passed on to work with all the problems he has, then it's normal and a law on peaceful work dispute resolution. Let's move on to a paragraph called "Peacers and Arbiters" - since the arbiter is making a solution that is legal and executive, there is also an additional condition for the selection of the arbiter, they must have passed a judicial exam or are regular professors of the university etc. Are we going to have those who have passed a judicial exam and have not yet succeeded in these two years, how many of you are in power to house them, now nicely, in arbitration and defenders? However, not even all of them will be able to get in there, because if any of these move forward, so they do not respect the rules of conduct, party discipline and other disciplines, then they will be dealt with in a slightly different way. By an important law in Article 46, you say - a request is foreseen for the erasure of the peacekeeper and the arbitration officer. You've made sure that those who accidentally disobey, so they don't respect the decisions they get, as one high-ranking court official, one of the highest courts said, we've got a verdict, if they don't get what they get, then they'll be wiped out of the record. What my eyes are going to tell me like this - I need the director of the agency directly, what did you do here? Here you have the Social-Economic Council, but it will not decide on erasing, because this proposal to amend the law says - given that the Director of the Agency in most cases may have knowledge of the facts that are the basis for erasing the peacemakers and arbiters from the directory, rather than members of the Social-Economic Council established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that the Agency's Director initiates the procedure for erasing from the directory and makes decisions in certain cases, etc. and get an opinion. Only in certain cases to get an opinion. Who will be complained to by those who are listed in the Peacekeeper and Arbitar directory, and how will they resolve the peaceful dispute that arises between the director and them, the director of the agency and them at that time? It says, "Procedural records." In order to inform the socio-economic council established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, at the request of the Council, the Agency shall provide information on the data in which the records are kept, as well as information on other issues of importance for the procedures of peaceful settlement of work disputes. So, just for information. That means he can and doesn't have to. It means that literally in this agency, which has not yet functioned, self-will can be carried out until the end. That's why I think Mr. Sreta Peric's amendment should be accepted. This bill, if it's still possible, needs to be withdrawn from the procedure, and I see that you won't, and you supplement it exactly, or fix it with these amendments that we've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33085	Ten minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Otto Kishmarton, Gojko Radic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must note that the government or perhaps the minister did not understand the essence of this amendment in the best way, because they understood that the amendment would accept, because the adoption of the amendment fully achieves the urgency of the legislator. What's this about? We have proposed that Article 5(3) be amended in such a way that, if the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal for a peaceful settlement of the working dispute, the Director of the Agency shall, under official duty, initiate the procedure of calming down and determine the peacemaker from the directory no later than 15 days after the beginning of the dispute. We have made the amendment because the bill promoter did not set a deadline within which the director of the agency would initiate the settlement procedure and determine the peacemaker, which could, of course, lead to a delay in the proceedings and thus would cause property damage to the parties in the proceedings. We believe that the government itself wanted the process of peaceful settlement of the work dispute to end as soon as possible, although the term for a peaceful settlement of the work dispute is not adequate. I'm sorry there's no minister here, because then it turns out that the trial before the court is a restless way of resolving the work dispute. If this is peaceful, then the solution to the court is restless. It is peaceful both, except that different rules are applied and usually this procedure before the arbitration tribunals takes longer and even, according to some SRS data, work disputes, since the DOS came to power in 2000, some work disputes last for more than five years. It is interesting to hear why the Government does not accept an amendment that actually achieves an acceleration of the process of peaceful settlement of the work dispute. It says - the amendment is not accepted because the parties to the dispute in action where there is a obligation to ensure the minimum working process in accordance with the Strike Act are obliged to submit a proposal for a peaceful dispute settlement within three days of the day of the dispute. No one's questioning that. If the parties to the dispute do not act on that basis, the Director of the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes shall be obliged to initiate the settlement procedure in accordance with the official duty. It is not disputed either, which implies that this procedure is urgent, i.e. The Director shall, at the end of the three-day period, in which the parties to the dispute have failed to comply with their obligation, initiate the procedure under official duty. Therefore, the deadline for the Director of the Agency to act for a maximum period of 15 days, as we propose by our amendment, is too long from the date of the dispute, especially considering that the settlement procedure ends within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate. Gentlemen of the Government, you have missed the deadline within which the Director of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution must initiate the procedure. You just prescribed the deadline in which the procedure has to be completed, that's 30 days. Which is the day when the procedure is initiated. You didn't put that in the bill. It's a very big leak. We suggest that this deadline lasts for the longest 15 days. And then it's quite clear that the procedure has to be urgent, and that it ends urgently. This procedure must be completed within 30 days, so the question is when it will be launched. This means it can be launched in a year or two from the beginning of the dispute. What then means to the parties in the dispute can do really one great harm. Not by accepting this amendment, which has really not been submitted for day-to-day political reasons, it actually fully achieves the purpose that you allegedly wanted to achieve by this law and it is completely unclear to me why you did not accept it. So there must be some deadline within which the Director is obliged to initiate the procedure. There's no time limit in the bill. You only prescribed two deadlines, a three-day period of the day of the dispute that parties in the dispute must submit a proposal for a peaceful settlement of the work dispute. And you've prescribed a deadline for the Director to expire three days a day, and what that means after the deadline, that means the next day, in a month or a year, that's all at the end of the deadline, but you haven't figured out what day the director is obliged to initiate the procedure. Therefore, you have only prescribed a three-day period or three-day deadline when the Director is due to initiate the procedure under official duty. After the deadline. So, you've just prescribed that you can't start the procedure before the deadline of the day. It's undeniable. But what's the deadline in which he has to run it, that's not what the bill says. In practice, this law, if you vote it, is applied so that in some situations the Director of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, what is written in Article 5 of this Bill to interpret the next day at the end of the three days, will sometimes be interpreted 30 days after the end of a three-day period, sometimes a year, sometimes five years and then the question arises - where is one educational application of the law? That's one big leak. If it's a technical failure, I doubt it's out of ignorance, because this is indeed a cardinal mistake. In any case, it's absolutely not going to achieve what the government wants, which is that procedure, that so-called. the procedure for a peaceful settlement of the work dispute urgent. And then we'll get into a situation where the court case is closed before the peace settlement procedure. And this is what the Government, I guess, wanted to avoid, is that the parties in the dispute bear less damage, i.e. to bear less costs, because the assumption that the proceedings before the court are longer, more expensive, more complicated, that it causes more costs on the part of the participants in the process, and that is particularly significant from the point of view of the workers in this dispute, because he pays all these costs out of his pocket. If that's what you wanted to avoid, then you had to schedule a deadline with the Director that, if the parties to the dispute don't initiate the procedure, the deadline when he has to run it. You didn't prescribe that deadline. Then your intention to settle the dispute peacefully was completely lost. He's an emergency when he starts. But when will it start? It's a fundamental question that you didn't answer with this bill. And then you're free, gentlemen of the government and the director and the agency and all that you would suggest. Then of this urgency, of this economics, of this rationality, there's absolutely nothing. You'll get into a situation where the trial will be over before the court, rather than a procedure of peaceful resolution of this so-called. the peaceful resolution of the work dispute. It's an extremely big failure. This amendment, it would be good, I am sorry that the minister is not here, this amendment should be accepted, otherwise, without accepting this amendment completes your concept of peaceful settlement of the work dispute falling into the water, and the basic concept of 2004 and this additional amended concept of 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33087	Six minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Mr. Rasim Ljajic is here, as he is not and as he should be, I am convinced that he would accept this amendment, because the amendment is more meaningful than the Government's proposal, which is quite raving. Article 6, to which I have submitted the amendment, speaks of Article 22 of the basic law. Article 22 used to say that the Peacekeeper opened and held a debate. The government has proposed not to hold the debate anymore, but to handle the debate. It's the right thing to do, because the debate isn't a beef to run across the field, it's a debate, and it's not a debate. The language is correct what you suggested, but incompletely, because it should have been said exactly as we suggested in the amendment, that the peacemaker open the debate, conduct all the necessary actions and manage the debate. You are saying in your explanation that you did not accept this, among other things because other powers of the peacemakers were regulated by other provisions of the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, for example provisions on the appointment of discussions, the collection of information and other data by the parties in the dispute, the conclusion of the debate, the giving of recommendations, etc. According to this argument, the peacemaker would just open up the debate and do nothing further. That's why we think it's a more meaningful and complete solution to what we've suggested. Perhaps Mr. Rasim Ljajic will come in the meantime, so please, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojajic, tell him this part of the argument and accept this amendment. Something in general about this idea and the idea of a peaceful settlement of work disputes. In 2004, when you passed this law and formed an agency, the SRS MPs had very serious objections, in general, to the existence of this institute, this is another one of these European institutions that are here in order to introduce order into the legal system, which essentially means nothing. This is literally the beating of an empty straw. You're trying to get through some agency, just so this agency, like almost all the agencies you've formed, would serve you to host party personnel, and there's no way out of this job. You, in the light of the law, say that important roles in the development of social dialogue have methods of peaceful settlement of labour disputes, both collective, which arise between trade unions and employers and individual, between individual employees and employers. One logical question or logical conclusion that is imposed is that if someone can settle a dispute peacefully, then he will calmly solve it with coffee and acidic water, and he will not need someone to sit with who he may be in the dispute. This is also the case with the so-called. Mediation in courts, which we spoke very extensively of when it was current. He explains: "By bringing the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Peaceable Disputes in November 2004 and the establishment of the Republic Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which began in May 2005, the parties to the dispute were given the possibility that, with the participation of impartial and professional persons, they would come to an agreement on issues of dispute". It is my conclusion that you in your ministry think that judges are biased and unprofessional, because if you introduce an agency and some peacemakers you claim to be impartial and professional, then you move them out of the courts because the courts are biased and unprofessional. We do not share your opinion and we think that the courts are professional, that they are impartial, that judges are professional, especially those who are going to be out of work these days are certainly both professional and impartial, but also partyly undefined or misdefined, so they will be out of a job. What are we interested in? We expected you to explain this law to us what the results of the Peace Dispute Resolution Agency were from May 2005 to November 2009? For four and a half years, this agency exists and indeed, if you wanted to change this law and if you wanted to talk about this, then the most normal and logical thing was to tell us the concrete results of this agency. How many peaceful disputes are settled in front of this agency or, what you don't want to say, is the fact that these agencies serve you that when you manage to buy a union leader, then on behalf of a group of workers he represents without their knowledge, then he's fine with this working dispute collectively with that agency and that he's satisfied, you're satisfied, there's no big gatherings, strikes from 100 to 200 people mean nothing to you, and in this way and through this agency, they're protecting themselves from the real revolution of the citizens that clearly exists against this government, not just because it's government, but because nothing works, but because every month tens of thousands of people are left without a job, and you're doing nothing to solve that problem. So now, on a few concrete examples, I'm going to ask you what your agency has done and what will possibly be done by the Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution, if the city's cleanliness workers from Belgrade, who are being abused on behalf of the DS, are planning to do something about it, but they don't know what they're actually not allowed to do, because they're threatening to quit. The DS, therefore, abuses the city's clean-up workers by sending them to this pre-election campaign concerning election for councillors in the Vozdovac municipality, to tour the teaching villages, to allegedly collect information about the interest of citizens of the pedestal villages to introduce sewers in the household. We know well that the Public Enterprise City Cleanness is one company, and the Public Company is a water and sewerage company of another company. Why not use the workers of the company, but the workers of the City Cleanliness, that's something this agency is going to discuss. These city cleanliness workers visited households on two occasions. For the first time, in front of those elections that were in June at the municipality of Voždovac and then carried some survey sheets, where they asked the citizens, imagine if they wanted to join their facilities to the sewer. Who doesn't want to do that? Then they promised that the city government, headed by Dragan Gilas, would do so immediately after the elections that were over and that are now being repeated. Of course, they didn't do anything, they had no intention, it was just pre-election marketing. Now, on this second occasion, these citizens are making lists of their secure voters, i.e. survey papers sent to them and citizens, have to enter the address, home number, ID number, name and name readly filled out, address and survey the owners of apartments, household members and others, from opportunity, guests who come to one of these villages in the territory of the Voždovac municipality. They say they will work in these villages sewers during this winter, that Dragan Gilas has made promises and that they are now coming on his behalf to claim that he will keep it, they don't know what to do with it, and they don't live up to what he promised when they visited the residents of this part of Voždovac. Then they say -- they will finance the sewerage network, just as they do in the municipality of Zemun, in the settlements of the Blue Horizon, the Zemun, the School Field and the village of Shanghai, but it will cost the citizens between two and two and a half thousand euros, and if someone is defined to pay immediately, it will cost only half of that amount, and the other half will pay the city of Belgrade. So, unprecedented and incredible abuses, just to get to the citizens and make sure those citizens get to the polls on Sunday and vote for the DS. Of course, they're not stupid citizens, and they don't think they're going to fall for Dragan Gilas' fraud one more time, because they know that these same City Cleanliness workers came to them in May, and then they promised that in a month they'd get the sewers, they didn't get it, and now they're seeing those citizens again. These people who went for a tour are dissatisfied. Mr. Ljajic, and citizens, employees of City Cleanliness and on behalf of your party, or ZES, as it is called for the Leader of your group, you abuse the workers of City Cleanness, Mr. Ljajic. Citizens are dissatisfied for many reasons. First, which is an unacceptable price they've been offered, so because you're coming back to them, even though you first said you'd do it, and you didn't. Cleanliness workers are dissatisfied because they realized that they were used for pre-election purposes of DS and that they were in fact doing the work of party activists, collecting data that would be used as a safe voice for citizens to be invited and informed to go to the elections. I read to you what these dissatisfied citizens have written and I ask you, Mr. Ljajic, if they come up with their problem in front of this agency for peaceful work dispute resolution - are they at risk of being fired? I'm afraid so. We don't believe in your agency, as we don't believe in the promises of Dragan Gilas and the deception of the citizens of Vozdovac, just to vote for the DS on Sunday. Also, I want to ask you, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, I asked you this morning, I suppose, now that you've been dating that you may have heard from your colleague, Snezana Malovic, and that you are ready to respond – how did it happen... Did you listen to me this morning, to be surprised? I asked you this morning, obviously you forgot. In the Municipality Court of Zrenjanin and the District Court of Zrenjanin, questionnaires for employees in the judicial administration arrived, and on the basis of these questionnaires, you will decide who will be fired and who will not be fired, because about 2,000 people, you know, will be fired by the court administration. One of the questions to be answered by women employed in the judiciary is – are you pregnant? My question was – will women who are employed in the judiciary, who, thank God, are pregnant be punished and fired? I don't see any other reason why you asked them that. I expect an answer to that question as well. Next, who will lead the disputes, the peaceful, the restless, the court, in front of the agency? How will he lead the disputes of 600 judges and 400 prosecutors who will be out of a job now? Do you know, Mr. Ljajic, that none of them will get an explanation why he's out of a job, that none of them will get the right to any work dispute, any legal remedy? Only in the Official Messenger will it be announced which judges have re-elected. All those not on that list have not been selected. They don't have any legal protection. Do you know that? Did you listen to Mrs. Dragana Boljevic from the Judges' Society last night and these days? The woman confirmed what we're telling you right now. So these judges, these prosecutors are completely unprotected, that really sounds tragic. People who have recently shared justice and for whom no one has proved that they have not done it well, as no one has proved that those who will be received have done well. You will only be able to read in "The Official Messenger" that Nate Mesarovic's son is still the judge of the Fourth Municipal Court. Why one of his colleagues isn't, nobody's gonna know. If you truly want to do what is the jurisdiction of your ministry, then take an interest in those people as well. It is tragic that 1,000 judges and prosecutors, 1,000 highly educated people with a degree in law school and a passed judicial exam, and 1,500 others who are employed by the judiciary have no protection from their own state. The problem is the state administration, the problem is the local self-government, but the problem is, Mr. Ljajic, and all those who get fired every day in the rest of the economy are private. You know, within your ministry, I've often listened to you, you know, when you show up in the media, we've heard of you that 700,000 people live below the existential minimum, that 300,000 children don't have a third meal, but what have you and your ministry and your government done to reduce this problem? Unfortunately, that number is increasing daily. The citizens of Serbia will have no idea of this Peace Dispute Resolution Agency, nor will they have any changes to this law. Do something, Mr. Ljajic, palpable, it's palpably some new job, some new factory, some new plant, then go out next time and say the number is no longer 700,000 hungry, it's now 500,000, and the next time it's 300,000, and then it's going to be some use for what you're doing. This way, you and the assembly majority, as part of the regime, are wasting time on Serbian citizens explaining something that no one will benefit from. No one in the state of Serbia will benefit either from this law, nor from that one. What the Auditory Institution has established is silent. Boris Tadic says he is unhappy with the work of some ministers, some municipality president -- no, no, it must change. Their blood was followed in veins by the threat of Boris Tadic. Well, this people isn't crazy, my people. Indeed, such insult to the intelligence and ridicule of Serbian citizens is something that can no longer be endured. You know it can't be put up with, and you know that rebellion in the people, dissatisfaction, has taken a serious situation. That's why you're changing this law. That is why you will direct these small union groups, or leaders of unions that are people of government, unfortunately, and are not representatives of citizens. On behalf of these people, they will allegedly settle these disputes peacefully, as you deceived a group of students on the day Serbia was placed on the white Schengen list. I'm asking you now are you going to do something to help these students who announced they're going to be looking for emigrant visas? Now we have a white Schengen list, and it might be easier for them to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33089	It was used 17 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You've got more than 25 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic suggested that Article 7 after Article 1 adds Article 2 to Article 26 of the basic law, which reads: "If one party, after the end of the dispute, does not fulfil its obligations under the decision, the other party retains the right to initiate the dispute before the court in charge". It is that, in practice, situations may occur so that one of the parties, after the end of the dispute, does not comply with its obligations under the decision, and then it is necessary to provide for other legal mechanisms, in order that one of the parties may reach the satisfaction of its right to exercise its right in a judicial procedure. Mr. Minister, see how imprecise or sloppy those who wrote the government's explanation why they didn't accept the amendment. This is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes. That's the bill we're discussing right now. Article 7. The bill, Mr. Minister, has only one position that says: in Article 26(4), the words "judgmental alignment" are replaced by the words "executive documents". Look at what it says in the government's explanation why it doesn't accept the amendment. "The amendment is not accepted for reasons of attitude 4. The draft law provides that the dispute settlement agreement shall have the power of the executive document. Therefore, in the event that one of the parties fails to comply with the obligations under the agreement, judicial protection was provided, in accordance with the law on the executive procedure, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 125 from 2004. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you what attitude you're even talking about because the bill we're discussing now has only one position in particular, and you say, the amendment is not accepted for the reason in point 4. A bill of law? It's just that there's no attitude, Mr. Minister. You may have meant the position of the fourth basic law, but that's not a suggestion, ma'am, sitting next to the minister. That's not how you do it. It would be good, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment. You have shown an age of will today when we have discussed in detail the previous law, the Law on Gender Equality, and it would be good to do so this time because, by accepting these amendments, and how to achieve the intensities of the legislator. By accepting these amendments, you'll get to really get the procedure into so-called. ensure the maximum protection of the rights of participants in the process, and above all we think of the rights of employees or the rights of workers who must pay all these costs out of their own pocket. We do not see at all why you do not accept an amendment that only foresees that in the event that the decision to settle a working dispute peacefully does not take place, then the parties to the dispute remain entitled to address the competent court. I don't think it's an absolute distraction to the concept of the bill, even better achieved the purpose that you wanted to achieve with this bill. Mr. Minister, you can accept the amendment of Mrs. Gordane Pop-Lazic. It's absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, it's absolutely legal and it's in accordance with the Law on Procedural Procedure, and it's in scale with the Implementing Procedure Act, and it's really affecting the essence of this bill of yours that you wanted to achieve, and the next time the officials write you an explanation of why you accept or do not accept the amendments, make sure that the amendments are submitted to the bill that's being discussed, and not to some other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33091	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 20 minutes and 25 seconds. I have an announcement. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Gojkovic, elected from the election list ZES - Boris Tadic. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Gojkovic, elected from the election list ZES - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to enter the O.R. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33092	I expected Mr. Rasim Ljajic to accept this amendment, but I hope that after the attempt, we will accept Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment, because we think that the situation and the conditions in our country are such that this would benefit greatly from the state itself, especially when it comes to disputes that have been conducted by workers with some of the institutions in which they were employed, which are financed from the budget, from local self-government to the republican authorities. Especially if you have in mind the situation that unfortunately many of the cancellations that are received and the work disputes being conducted are being conducted for political reasons, because these layoffs were largely motivated by political reasons. Political opponents are being fired. You demonstrated this the most brutal way since October 5th since 2001. What's particularly problematic is we have no idea how much the state has lost because of this haughtiness and brutality of those who came to power after October 5th. I'll only give you one example, so based on that example, evaluate how much damage this country has suffered. In the municipality of Zemun, one worker was fired. The dispute has been under way for five years. After five years, the court ruled in favour of the workers. The worker received 17,000 euros in compensation. Take what was the cost of a five-year trial, how much it cost the state. The question is, right now, how many of these procedures are being conducted, and where are the workers who have been fired in one of these institutions financed from the budget? As far as the company is concerned, we have it every day. You've had your chance today, if you've passed the Ministry of Economic and Regional Development. There are workers of the "Trubnik", because it is also a brutal robbery by Kopcalic and DS members. Mr. Ljajic, we're just about to have problems when it comes to running disputes against the state. You know, a recent law has been passed on to employees of the Republic and local administration. About 3,400 workers are expected to be fired. Now watch this situation. For 2010, you plan to fire 3,400 workers and plan to raise the salary by two billion. Something's wrong with that. What our people would say is that there's someone crazy here. To cut costs by firing 3,400 workers, to increase the salary budget by two billion. In doing so, Mr Ljajic, I will list to you five agencies and institutions that are planning: National Security Council Office increased by 15 officials, with the Trustee for the Protection of Equality 11, by the Anti-Corruption Agency 47, by the Information Commissioner 38 and the State Audit Authority 18 workers. Suma Sumarum, 129 workers in five institutions, and you have about 200 agencies. On average, if they hire like this, it'll be for the next year 5,200 workers. Reduce by 70% and you'll get the number of people you'll fire, 3,400. Not to mention the M.O.P., the Army and the others. I'm asking you a question, these 3,400 that you're about to fire, how much will that discharge be motivated by retribution or political reasons, or by the impatience of an executive in some service? Probably in a lot of cases. How many disputes 3,400 will be raised that will be fired. It's only in the Republic administration. Let me remind you of the local administration, where there's also a huge number of people who need to be fired. How many will lead the disputes with the state and prove it without any problem that they're right? How will he prove it? By probably having someone admitted to their workplace either in a permanent working relationship or being admitted indefinitely, as it was here in the case of Milivo Vicentijevic. He was admitted to the workplace of a working woman who's on sick leave, and there's no idea who she is or what kind of sick leave she is. Milivoje Vicentijevic, assistant secretary of the RS Assembly, has been a perspective since 63 years. How many cases will you have when you hire new personnel? Probably a huge number. How much damage will the state have? It's probably huge. What I particularly think, when it comes to this law, is that it should be pointed out that this law seems to me to be like that law of joint work, then to the courts of joint work. Something smells like Cardella to me. These younger ones probably don't remember, but Mr. Omerovic probably remembers those times. That's obvious. Instead of helping people solve their problem as quickly as possible, and I think that the easiest, simplest, I'm not a lawyer, but that's why, since, not quite, the world and the century, but for a long time, there are courts and courts that need to solve these problems, you are now setting up agencies. You're making some laws because you don't want to solve the problem, but you're making some foreign roads, bypass roads that will all have the effect that this country will pay more expensive than it will do in the way it's done everywhere in the world, and that is why I suggest that at least these amendments proposed by the SRS and this amendment proposed by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic be accepted, because we think that at least partially it will fix the damage that this bill and all that's been going on for the past nine years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33093	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment with the correction. The word is Mr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33094	I accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33095	I thank the ministers. The 8th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33096	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DSS is fully in line with what it proposed in the amendment to Article 2. continued to work, and so it proposed on Article 8 a correction to add new categories – food allowances during work, fees for coming and leaving work, payment of the jubilee prize and payment of the regress for the use of annual holidays. Completely on the trail of what we suggested in the amendment to Article 2 is this. In fact, we are trying to raise the protection of workers' rights to the level they had before this government came with great promises and before calling itself a socially responsible government, and by social responsibility, 700,000 citizens have been brought to the brink of existence and tens of thousands of workers are out of work every month, thanks to the government's ability to act socially responsible. So, right now, there's about 63,020 companies with over 150,000 workers in the blockade, and there's also a large number of those companies whose blockade is earned and owed to the state. When I spoke in principle, I mentioned the company "Planum" and I don't want to repeat myself, I think it's stupid to spend time on it, because in this country alone, no one has heard of a deal being reached with the unions, that the obligations of the state are being fulfilled in time, that workers would receive their earnings that are minimal and that they can't live on, but, as much as they can afford security that they can plan something and their family eat. It is obvious that this law and this government, in a situation of complete social tension itself, because it does not want to negotiate and negotiate with trade unions, to make social dialogue, obviously lacks that hearing. Another fact is what everyone mentions, and we here as MPs have had the opportunity to say recently about these two laws – the maximum number of employees in the local and state administration, where also one army of people will be out of work, and such a union, the union of employees in the state administration, came to the Assembly and asked us for help, to make contact, to actually bring social dialogue. Apparently no one has heard of it. We have been asking a thousand questions here – what are the criteria, which the union has also offered, for those who need to leave the workplace, offering opportunities to agree on what kind of protection will be provided for those who remain unemployed, but obviously you have no hearing for social dialogue. But what you failed to state in this law we suggested. We wanted, above all, to help workers, but in the end, we also helped the government to raise the level of protection of workers in a socially responsible way and to even say that it could be called that. What was the shock for us now? You have not accepted this amendment. However, you say you do not accept this amendment because the amendment of MP Miroslav Petronivic, which is essentially the same, has arrived before us since our amendment. So they decided seconds again. I really wasn't familiar with that criterion to accept something that had arrived before, even though I've only been an MP for six years, at least you haven't acted that way. Here, you're laughing too. That's ridiculous and that's not an answer. When you want to say that you have not accepted the amendment, at least find some other explanation, although it is really hard to make an explanation for two amendments in the same text – one you accept, the other you do not accept. I made this more as a finding, because at one point I wondered where the minister who defended the previous law was? He's sitting here, he's got the same guy, but apparently he's not hearing the same thing. It doesn't matter much either. As far as the DSS is concerned, we have submitted an amendment, the amendment had a purpose to help workers, he was eventually accepted, whether we are signatories to that amendment or not, the least important is. I brought this up only to let people who are watching this congregation and MPs notice that there are several archbishops that are used according to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33097	From the time of the parliamentary group, three minutes. I'd like to inform you, on the basis of article 85, that we'll be working after 18 hours, until the end of the agenda period, but no longer than 19.30 hours, and we'll have a break at 15 o'clock. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33098	We have also said in the debate on Article 2 that it is good that, when it comes to individual labour disputes, the reasons are extended, is it possible for them to be resolved in this way, the institutions and the solutions proposed in the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes and, in that sense, this amendment is extremely well-intentioned and constructive. The amendment of counterpart Milisav Petronivic was accepted. In any case, we wanted, in addition to all the amendments that we have submitted, that this law that we think is important, in whose design and proposal we took part in 2004, to gain quality and to achieve our goal. I would go back to the reasons why we believe this bill will not have its effect. There's a lot of fear in employees. I believe the minister knows that. It's a great fear of keeping the job, of being a lot of pressure from the employers. In this job-saving atmosphere, the absence of hearing from the state to conduct a serious and responsible social dialogue, silence of the Social-Economic Council, the very weak position of employees in collective bargaining. I thank the Minister for presenting the exact information on the number of concluded border and collective agreements, but it would be good to hear the number of individual collective agreements concluded and what content they are, and in particular what are the work contracts and are all the material obligations defined in the Labour Act respected in the labour contracts? There's a very important role here for labour inspections. We would like to hear from the minister himself how they operate, how they operate, how many interventions they had on the ground, especially when it comes to labour contracts, how the Labour Act is respected, and were there concrete sanctions for individual employers? Let's not pretend here that the atmosphere in businesses and in the state administration and local self-government is really such that the employees are almost disfigured. In fact, according to the Labour Act, they have rights, but the pressure that is constantly felt in the air about their workplace, so that they may lose their jobs, because someone is already waiting at the door that will accept the conditions under which they operate even though these conditions are not entirely legal, is huge. There is a great responsibility here on the Social-Economic Council, which at least we don't hear in public, not ambush, doesn't make decisions, we don't hear the conclusion that there will be a balance between the different interests of employees and employers. In the very proposal for a law, part of the jurisdiction of the Social-Economic Council, when it comes to keeping records of peacemakers, shall be withdrawn from its jurisdiction and placed in the power of the Director of the Agency. We just don't have that picture. Especially since we can only imagine how socio-economic advices operate at local level, where there is now a obligation for local self-government to form these advices, where they have the possibility, considering the state of economy, economy and local self-government, to find a solution through a partnership of all segments in social dialogue, from state or local self-government, employers and employees. There's a feeling that it's all gone completely aside and that the employees are on their own, in fear of getting fired. We also said why – because of the very weak negotiating position they currently have. On the other hand, we said that one part of the institutions, let's say, the socio-economic council is losing importance, while the new institutions are supposed to be set up, which should solve unemployment problems -- the national employment agency, then various regionals, etc. That's what we've talked about, their role, which they're going to hire new people while others are being fired. Or the National Regional Development Agency, which is now being talked about. Look, we here in the Assembly had a debate on regional development, reduction of regional differences, employment, benefits for the opening of new businesses, etc. What was this big discussion that the government here represented to the public and explained to the citizens that this would come down? Who's gonna have the capital? We are discussing in Serbia today, when it comes to the huge disproportionate development of local self-government, the region, not how to solve it, but what region will have the capital. This is what the debate on balanced regional development has come up with. That's when we pointed out that this law was going to fail, that's when we indicated that nothing would solve it, especially not to solve the problem of unemployment, and now it has turned out. The race between Kragujevac, between Uzic, Nis, will be called the capital. Of course, all that story opened up a debate about the Statute, that Pandora's box of capitals, about jurisdiction, and now we're witnessing that instead of solving the unemployment problem, we're talking about capital cities. All in all, the institutions established over the past year will not solve the problem of unemployment, will not contribute to social dialogue, but those institutions that need to do so are the socio-economic council, to encourage the conclusion of collective agreements, to protect the application of the rights that employees have under the Labour Act, and in particular, I believe that there is something that the minister is doing, which is directly in his jurisdiction, labour inspection, to control those contracts that are being concluded now. I'd like to hear from the minister an answer to one question. The other day we heard an official, employment-related institution that in Serbia unemployment is lower. I believe you've heard a lot of smiles and laughs on the street, if anyone believes that one state institution is presenting information, in a situation where layoffs are daily that someone has the courage and cheeks to come out and say unemployment is shrinking. I'd like to hear from you if you believe that information and based on which indicators such information has been made?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33099	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33100	Very briefly, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, therefore, since the Committee has also proposed its second amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace settlement of Disputes, this amendment is only to Article 8 in fact a harmonisation with the amendment already proposed to Article 2 which the Proposer has also accepted, so this is some logical trail.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33101	Thank you. The word has a minister. Thank you, Minister. If you say so, I accept, then we have barely heard you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Milet Poscurica, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Zoran Antić. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33102	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, with careful reading of this bill, it is evident that you have changed almost all the provisions of the basic law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, except for provisions concerning the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. These agencies of yours, the government agencies have become almost untouchable, beyond any control. You have so raised the Agency and its officials, peacemakers and arbitration by the provisions of this law, that you have even partially suspended the court, imposing in Article 8, that the court may suspend the proceedings if the dispute is resolved before the arbitration tribunal, and that same procedure may initiate only one party in the proceedings. How long does the court have to stop? Can we, Mr. Minister, have the judiciary stop? You are in this way directly affecting the judiciary as an independent branch of government, and only a few days ago here in this same room in the election of public prosecutors for the primary and senior public prosecutors representatives of the government and the MPs of the ruling parties swore that they reform the judiciary and protect the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and that politics does not interfere in the judiciary, and you are now just a few days after that you are doing the opposite by law. How confident you are about the professionality and impartiality of the arbitration panel appointed by the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, for which there are no even criminal provisions, unless they are impartial, you have even foreseen the removal of a member of the 34th Basic Law, which provides that the arbitration officer may hire an expert. Why, Mr. Minister? Is the reason economics? Is it going to cost a lot of artificial services, or do you not need an expert opinion from an expert expert, as you do not, apparently, or the opinion of the State Auditor's House? How would an opinion be if it weren't a state-run, but an independent auditory house? If the reason is not to engage artificial economics, I believe that there is no more expensive process than when a wrong solution has been made that one party in the process, or in the dispute, is damaged, and I am sure that the injured will be employed, or former employees. You did not accept the amendment of the parliamentary club Advanced Serbian Progressive Party, and the argument was – an arbitration officer may, if necessary, hire an expert of the appropriate profession to which the provisions of this arbitration law apply. But, Mr. Minister, if something isn't prescribed by law and if, as you predicted, an arbitration officer can hire an expert, it doesn't mean he has to hire him. It is correct that you have provided for a member of the 38th basic law that the arbitration panel has high professional training and at least five years of work experience in the field of labour relations, as well as a passed judicial exam, but that does not mean that the arbitration officer has to do everything and that he knows and that he does not need an expert service. After all, if we go back some year and a half, with all the promises of 200 – 300,000 new jobs that you have buried Serbian citizens in a pre-election campaign, I expected before here that you have hired an agency in which these people will thank the government and ministers, that is, the president of the state who lied to them about these jobs, not to form an agency on peaceful work dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33103	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Ms. Vice President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33104	Mr Ljajic, Mr Petar Jojic, on behalf of the SRS, suggested that article 34 be changed and read – that the arbiter may, if necessary, engage the expert in the relevant professions to which the provisions of this law on the exception of the arbiter are applied. I will use this article, or Mr Jojic's amendment, if you haven't been informed, because you are sitting in the assembly all day long, to inform the public that today more than 20 presidents so-called Undeveloped municipalities in Serbia strike in front of the government because they have been reduced transfer funds for the current year 2009. They don't even know how they're gonna get out of this situation. I have to tell you that more than alarming is that many of them are blocked and public enterprises and all budget contributions they have and on the basis of social contributions, are threatened, by children in kindergartens, by helping, by serving what is necessary for primary and secondary schools, and are the questions you urgently need to give us an answer and that the government is advertising - why, above all, there is Mr Palalic, the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister ignored those people, they did not want to receive them, now they are forced to come. There are also the presidents of the Rač Forest Municipality, which is a municipality that has lost the opportunity to work through the engagement and cooperative role in the process of producing this Zastava fiyata, i.e. the Fiata punto, for electrical installation equipment for the model, and then the possibility of developing agriculture in the region. Every one of these people had something to say about what was bothering him. I don't really know what arches you've been applying, when you've reduced your medical resources and your colleague Sreto Peric will say, it's probably a disastrous situation in Ljubljana. What do you care, the municipality has 15,000 inhabitants, 10 and more written down, and you see what's going on in Voždovec and what the yellow ones are doing - which is out of packages, billboards, and not talking about those who are paid by tycoons and traitors of the SRS, they pay a million and a half a day on TV, just to make this arrow go better, but better for their pocket. These people don't have the bread to eat. They came, and believe me, they're asking you for answers. Which one of you will close that financial structure when they have nothing. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33105	Thank you. Since the time of the parliamentary group, two minutes and 40 seconds have been used. If you have one minute, is that enough? I know she mentioned you, but if I don't take a break right now, and that's exactly what I'm going to do, we'll continue the work after 4:00, because then we won't be able to. Thank you. I've set the break by 1600 hours. Thank you. Palalic answered the word. The remaining time for the SRS is nine minutes and 45 seconds, the DSS - 17 minutes and 40 seconds, forward Serbia - 23 minutes and 30 seconds, ZES - 91 minutes and 30 seconds. Everyone else has their time, because they didn't even participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33106	Mr. Novakovic, you told me before my address that our parliamentary group has 18 minutes and I don't know how many seconds, because it's written to you by these two, like an eight or something. Like last night around this working time, please, you're constantly misleading me, and then I'm misleading my colleagues, and we've got a lot of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon search in detail. Since the afternoon part, the right to replica has a National MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in my presentation, I was mentioned by my colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, as chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that the exact information that my colleague has presented here, that representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities have announced days of visits to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the intention of being accepted by government representatives, so that the problem they are facing, which is, after the reduction of the transfer funds, a huge problem for the budgets of their municipalities and in fact before bankruptcy, to be received by the Prime Minister or by someone he from the ministers of power. Unfortunately, to this moment, none of the government's representatives wanted to receive representatives of the municipalities that the citizens had chosen. I remind you that these are 62 municipalities, that this is a third of Serbia, that people have a huge problem, that the finance minister did not receive them. I received an official response from the finance ministry's representative, although there was controversy here that they were received by the finance minister, it is clear that representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities received state secretaries at the finance ministry Vuk Djokovic and Miodrag Djidic on 28 October. I don't see how we can solve this problem. I don't see what the problem is for the government's representatives to see citizens today, the president of the municipalities, talk to them and see if they can solve the problem. That's all people ask, to be accepted, to be heard by one of the government's representatives. They've been announcing it for days. It's just amazing that they're sitting in government right now and no one wants to see them. This is an appeal for finance ministers and the Prime Minister to find a way to agree, discuss and find solutions to their problem in the lack of transfer funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33109	The 12th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33110	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not here, Minister Rasim Ljajic. It is really not clear why our amendment was rejected, given that the solution provided for in the bill is such that it really represents very harsh conditions for the selection of arbitarians. We felt that, given the role that arbiters play in the process of peaceful settlement of labour disputes, this procedure in its nature is not judicial because it also takes place in front of arbitration and outside judicial institutions, it also has its informal side. The aim of the process is to reach a solution to the dispute, which, thank God, has been extended to a number of other areas by amendments, in a more discussion, to bring facts to arbitration by employers and employees. The arbiters play a role here and the goal is to appoint as many persons with certain experience and knowledge as possible as possible to the arbitration. You have a situation that even in the very text of the law, especially in the amendments and additions of the law, you have very sharp solutions when it comes to the appointment of arbitarians. They're set cumulatively. We felt that it should be set up so that, in addition to these basic conditions concerning indemnity, conditions for the selection of arbitarians, citizenship, three alternative conditions. One is that it has high professional training and at least five years of work experience in the field of work relations, means a person who has worked in working relationships and has knowledge. Here it is placed as a cumulative condition with the following two, which is that he is a regular professor of law school from positive-law cases or that he has passed a judicial exam. It's quite enough that the arbiter can also be a person who has experience in the field of labour law relations, doesn't have to have a passed judicial exam, he worked in an enterprise and he knows, especially when it comes to working relationships and contract conclusion, determining work fees, everything that involves a normal job that mainly works for people on jobs, to say, personal management and in the personal departments of enterprises. So these are the faces that have these experiences and know how to solve these problems. College professors from positive-law cases certainly know the procedural matter that is necessary in this case, that some of the items that are found in front of the arbitration are being solved. They know the drill. The third group are persons who have passed a judicial exam, meaning persons who have experience in positive-legal cases, but also in procedural experience, so they have done professional preparation and have experience either in the area of the judiciary or in the area of law. We think that the conditions proposed by the Government will lead to a small number of persons wanting to be appointed as an arbiter, and a small number of persons implies that few will meet these cumulative conditions, above all, people will find much more lucrative jobs when they have experience like this, that they have worked in the profession or that they are still professors on positive legal cases or have passed a judicial exam. In fact, the goal is to spread the circle of faces that should be appointed for the arbiters, not to reduce them with such strict conditions. Please, Government representatives, there is no Minister Ljajic here to consider this amendment, it is quite constructive and it is in the spirit of this law giving its effects in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33111	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33112	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 13 and suggested that Article 13(2) be deleted. This is a link to the previous amendment sent by counterpart Zoran Krasic, where he stated in recital 1 and stressed that erasure from the directory could be submitted by the Social-Economic Council established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in that situation that this amendment was accepted, in which case an unnecessary provision of attitude 2 would be necessary. That's why I suggested that this attitude be deleted. Unfortunately, you did not accept this position, although the spirit of the law produces the legal authority of the Social-Economic Council, since you proposed in Article 12a that the choice of peacemakers and arbiters be made by the socio-economic council of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the social partners who are members of the socio-economic council. If the socio-economic council elects a peacemaker and arbitarian, it would also be appropriate for them to make a decision to delete from the directory. Unfortunately, you didn't accept this, but here are the representatives of the ministry, and you still have a chance to correct this anomaly. I think that a provision that points to the powers of the director would certainly cause a number of arbitraryities in practice, we know for ourselves, if it is passed on to the director without control, can cause a number of problems which, in practice, in the social life of a large number.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33113	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Mirovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted this amendment with the intention to arm the selection of the arbitration panel and make their entry in the directory and that the deadline for this is 31 December 2009. This amendment is extremely meaningful and should have been accepted. It is clear from the government's explanation why it refuses to accept the amendment that certain deadlines are in the process of electing and enrolling the arbitration panel. These deadlines would have fit this deadline, which Mr Mirovic amended if this session hadn't been interrupted three times before and not to schedule meetings of the National Assembly with 58 agenda points. In the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, there may be much worse things than these. The Constitution, the law, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have been broken here for a long time. Today, something inexplicable happened at a session of the National Assembly’s Administrative Committee. At today's session, the Committee accepted the resignation of the DS MP, Mr Dragan Vujadinovic. It would not be inexplicable if at the 48th session of the Administrative Committee, held on 6 October of this year, it had not been decided that conditions had not been met for the termination of the mandate of the SRS MPs, the termination of my mandate and my colleague Elena Bozic-Talijan. I will remind you that during this call the National Assembly and other MPs submitted resignations, Mrs. Jorga, Mr. Albianic and others from the ruling coalition and that the Administrative Committee respected their will. Here, today he again accepted the resignation of the MP of the DS. The only thing that is not accepted is the will of the MPs of the SRS, only in our case, a new procedure is being invented. The terrible thing is that at today's session of the Administrative Committee, President Nenad Konstantinovic was asked several questions to explain how to accept MPs' resignations from the ruling coalition, and not to accept the resignations of SRS MPs. He did not answer a single question, only members of the Administrative Committee raised their hands, pleaded for the resignation of MP Dragan Vujadinovic, and that was all. Meanwhile, a RIK report has arrived today saying that the mandate for this vacant parliamentary post belongs to the list of ZES - Boris Tadic. The rest of the work was completed, a vacant parliamentary post, and all other political parties were allowed to do so, to make a change in their parliamentary club. Only the SRS is denied this right. The SRS believes that because it participates in a conflicting procedure, which is the legalisation of what cannot be legalised, MP Nenad Konstantinovic should do one thing in which case is normal, to resign as chairman of the National Assembly's Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33115	Anyone else want a word? If not, People's MP Mirko Munjic has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33116	We have asked here that the provisions of this law relating to the peace settlement procedure apply from January 2010. The first of January 2010 was determined at the time of the submission of the amendment as some date or time limit until which certain preparatory actions should eventually be terminated and from when it would be realistic for this law to start to live, or enter into force. The government, in its explanation, says there are no reasons for delaying the application of this law. However, we are now almost in a situation that the first January may be the date by which the law will not actually be applied. Did the government's representatives not have in mind that there are certain brakes in their ranks to block the adoption of this law, I don't know. Most of the time, the first January is approaching and will be difficult to reach by then. However, the question arises: does it actually have practical significance for those to whom the provisions of this law apply? Whether it will start to apply on 20 December or 1 January, or e.g. January 21st? Instead of answering this question, the government should have, in its explanation of the justification for the adoption of the amendment and the addition of the law to present the following – firstly, as far as the total has been started, and how many peaceful settlement procedures have been completed; secondly, how many procedures have been resolved by workers, perhaps giving up their labour income requirements; and thirdly, how many procedures that have the character of the executive document are actually carried out for the benefit of workers. It seems that for many workers in this process of peaceful work dispute resolution, as well as for those in court proceedings, in the process of resolving their working relationships, that rule applies at the end of their road, rule or aphorism, which it says – not that stone, they told Sisif at the end of the hill. It seems so for these workers of ours who are trying to find their own justice either in court or in the course of peaceful resolution of these labour disputes. What, though, is required of workers? In spite of their misfortune and misery, workers are asked to be calm and stable, to accept peacefully a peacemaker or arbiter who will convince him that it is only in their interest to either forgive the employer's debt or to accept a church girl who, we can say freely, looks more like a social aid or, in the end, to receive today only part of the debt, and the rest tomorrow, which usually happens – a little tomorrow. However, the question arises – can it remain calm, can workers remain calm when they are owed, year, year, two, three or more back-up salaries, back-to-back fees from their work? It is certain that I cannot remain calm, it is certain that someone who is directly threatened by existence, not only his, but the existence of his family, cannot be calm, can not be indifferent and indifferent to the fact that his children simply have nothing to eat. That's why it's very difficult for the government to actually ask workers, which is why the government wants workers to stay calm, despite, for example, the employer owes them a year, two or three backlogs. Believe me, such calmness, such modesty, we could see only one man whom we knew and who, unfortunately, almost died, our patriarch Paul. The government is asking workers to show that kind of quietness. While I am at this point, I will end up with two three sentences precisely in memory of our patriarch and his calmness and calmness with a short story dating from the monastery of the Blessing, where our patriarch and entrenched in 1948, when, in fact, by his telling some people in the Tommanastre, he said: “I once sought six olives for a meal. I started eating, and when I was at the end, I saw that there seemed to be more. I looked and saw six pieces and one more uneaten and imagine, he says, my torment, or I leave one, and I reach for it with my hands or I eat too much." Imagine what modesty it was and is required of our workers to be so modest, that despite their debt to them, they are modest and not to go out into the streets, not to express their debt to them. I think this amendment, like other amendments to the SRS, was meant to be accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33117	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, is the proposing representative not present, he wants the final word? In that case, I conclude a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 25th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE STECJA (specificity) I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, is on the basis of a search in detail of the 25th and 26th points of the agenda, and according to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, called for the meeting to be attended by Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Luka Andric, adviser to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Momo Colaković, Vladan Batić, Djordje Milicevic, Mladen Grujic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čaljan Čolić, Radiša Ilic, Milorad Buha, Boris Alek, Mirko Munjic, Dejan Mirić, Dejan Marić, Sreto Perić, Vjerica Rade, Vlajan Žarjan Kražan Kražan Kražić, Dragić, Dragić and Dragić. National MP Susana Grubjesic wrote in writing on 16 November 2009, withdrawing all amendments she submitted to the draft law on 11 November 2009. In writing, the government withdrew the amendment to Article 207. Proposal for a law, December 3, 2009. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that representatives for the 25th and 26th agenda are authorised: MP Mladen Grujic – MP group of New Serbia, MP Judita Popovic – MP group of LDPs, MP Milan M. Nikolic – MP group of SPS-JS, MP Jorvanka Tabaković – MP of the Group of Representatives of Serbia, National MP Milorad Buha – MP of the SRS and MP Aleksandar Jankovic – Parliament group of ZES. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sreto Peric, so the MP Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33118	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, colleague Colakovic, I want to tell you that we are slowly entering communism. How and why? We had before this law on peaceful dispute resolution. So we're around here somewhere, we're going to work towards our options, and we're going to take what's needed, but some of us have already taken too much, and for the others, no matter how much they work, there's not going to be anything. What did I call my colleague Cholakovic? He probably remembers this ideology. It could have been someone else, no problem, nothing personal, but just so little generational. Imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, when we are in a position to submit an amendment to Article 1(1). This is some right of MPs established under the Rules of Procedure. There's no way that's real. Then you can think of the position you are in after years of work in certain companies, after waiting for work, after your claims, what are your options to collect. I can tell you, of course, I don't like what it is, almost nothing. The amendment I have made is a legal-technical nature, nothing fundamentally changes the concept of this law. We have proposed to be in Article 1(1). Proposal for a bankruptcy law, this law regulates the conditions and the way in which bankruptcy is initiated and implemented over legal persons, that is to say, the definition of the position of the 1st member. We suggested that instead of "the way" stand "the procedure". ‘Source’ is not a sufficiently defined and precise term such as ‘the procedure’. We have a process of determining and implementing bankruptcy, but it was difficult for this government to accept, so it stands in reason – the amendment is not accepted because the draft bankruptcy law does not only regulate bankruptcy, but also contains material norms, since there are two ways of running and implementing bankruptcy, and these two ways are bankruptcy and reorganisation. The word “mode ” should not replace the word“ procedure. ” In this amendment at all, we did not dispute two ways to resolve bankruptcy, but we only intended to give one more qualified, legally monitored and technical, more quality proposal, so that this would be clear and that everyone could fully understand it. Mrs. Matic, I don't even know how much authority she has, whether she can just stay here or maybe have the opportunity to react to the amendments submitted by the MPs. If you have such a possibility, I am almost certain that this amendment will be proposed to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33119	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33120	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago when we talked about the law on bankruptcy in principle, we in New Serbia explicitly said that if our amendments were adopted, we would support the bill, not because our desire to support the government, but because the bankruptcy situation in Serbia is slightly alarming. Given that currently in Serbia we have 60,000 more companies that meet the conditions for bankruptcy, then it is obvious that we are all concerned about this matter, not just the Government. I personally belong to a group of people who, despite all their doubts about the regularity of the government's work, are still somewhere deeply hoping that someone in this government knows what they're doing. I was really hoping that we could make a law that is good and whose application will do something useful in Serbia. I must tell you that all our amendments have been denied except one. That good will of ours to support this law has fallen into the water. You've accepted one amendment, let's talk about the other amendments. This law has several solutions within it, which we in New Serbia believe to be catastrophic. One of the most terrible mistakes we talked about when we talked about in principle and you didn't do anything, and you had the chance, we submitted an amendment on this issue, because the selection of bankruptcy managers by chance, where someone without any experience, for example, will lead to the bankruptcy of JAT. Why am I taking JAT's example? Well, as you lead him, the stone on the stone will soon be gone. When everything goes down in JAT, then you'll be out of your hat, by the method of a random sample that you explain in detail in the law, you'll get some bankruptcy manager out of Babusnica, let's just say, just to remind you, you haven't made it a condition for a bankruptcy manager to speak English, who in bankruptcy JAT will be quite important, and you'll set up this randomly selected bankruptcy manager from Babusnica, without the knowledge of English, without any experience, but a happy winner, and I say happy winner, because it's like a reward when you get some big bankruptcy and he'll be dabbling with claims in Africa, Asia, who knows where all the rest of the JAT's money is scattered around the world. In your explanation, and these ideas about a random sample of bankruptcy managers are said to result in as many bankruptcy managers as possible gaining great work experience. Believe me, it's cheaper to pay them all Harvard and Oxford, so they can learn well than to practice in the Serbian economy. That's when we generally talk about our proposals to amend this law. The scariest and most unpleasant surprise, based on which I see that not only does the government not know what it is doing but has no good intentions, is the fact that the Finance Committee has submitted an amendment to Article 207. The Committee on Finance attached the amendment on the basis of the instructions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not because the Finance Committee remembered it itself, which reads: The bankruptcy procedures which are pending on the day of the entry into force of this law will continue according to the rules which were in force until the date of the entry into force of this law. This shows that the Serbian government has no intention of solving the most terrible examples of endless bankruptcy in Serbia. I can talk about the Belgrade Atara, just to give you an example of 'Rada' and Southexport, which lasts for years, for which no one remembers when they started anything, or why all these violent bankruptcys ended up in prison in the meantime. You've had the opportunity to end these bankruptcys that last indefinitely because there are some solutions in this bill that speed up bankruptcy proceedings. You have accepted one of our amendments whose goal is to shorten the time provided for in the court procedure. There are solutions to the law to shorten the procedure, only we won't apply it to the bankruptcy that lasts forever. With this, New Serbia has a serious problem. We'll report today a few more times based on some of the solutions that you've rejected, which are ours, which are our other parties. I'm not saying it's gonna change anything, but it's our duty to say it one more time, maybe someone changes their mind, maybe one of my respected colleagues doesn't support this law. We don't have any other means. Have we proposed an amendment to what needs to be changed, not accepted, and today we will try to draw your attention to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33121	Six minutes have been used since the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS on Article 1st paragraph 3 and suggested that the word "financial" be added in the bill after the word "understanding". For the sake of the public, I have to read the provision of the bankruptcy bill, which says in Article 1(3): "The bankruptcy implies the settlement of creditors by selling the entire assets of a creditor or a creditor as a legal entity". I believe that after the word "substantiates" it would be necessary to install the word "financial", with the explanation that I have stated in my amendment. However, this amendment was not accepted by the government, with the reason that adding the word "financial" would be unnecessary, and the partial and incorrect precision of the text that would not change the application of the law, since in practice, given all the provisions of the laws which detail the way trustees are settled, so far there have been no disputed situations. Also, there are ways to keep trustees calm by e.g. the conversion of the claim to the share in capital or through the replacement of the fulfillment, where the question of whether it is a financial settlement could be raised. Legally-technically, the settlement of the claim is a consistent and widely accepted term for this situation. I'm asking the government and whoever wrote this explanation whether you've met any of the situations in which you found a non-financial statement in your application, whether it's a conversion or some other form. There's always a financial amount behind all of this, which is required by the trustee, who owes the debtor. No court ruling has a basis without financial confirmation. Regardless of this, you refused, as in other situations, but I will report multiple times, given that I have submitted several amendments. What matters from the aspect of this bill and this matter is important to point out the huge problems that the state has in this area. In fact, everything that was tried in 2004, when the Banking Procedure Act was passed, showed that the provisions of the Law were incomplete, that they were unclear, that they were arbitrary. On the other hand, the shareholders of the bankruptcy proceedings are not on an adequate task. Namely, the bankruptcy and bankruptcy debtors do nothing to speed up the process. I'll point to the basic indicators we have in the bang. The main indicator of the efficiency of the bankruptcy process is the length of the period of standstill and the cost of the procedure. There are more, but these are the most important. Where is Serbia? Serbia, at its length, is at the very top of Europe. We've come up with some data on sites and by various analysts dealing with this matter, that we're somewhere at 2.7 years in the process. What concerns, however, is that the bankruptcy of large enterprises, large banks, large legal entities by categorising legal entities, lasts too long, lasts for years. So today we have in practice a bankruptcy that lasts at the Kosovo Bank for 15 years, a Yugoslav woman who will last 26 years. It's going on, and it's going on. We have procedures with banks that last 8-9 years. The big banks, the seventh year is over, and they're still in bankruptcy. How's that in Europe? In Europe, the average bankruptcy is about 14 months. He's been in the U.S. for nine months. He's been around us for about three years. We must be worried about the situation that a large complex of companies, large businesses, is not being solved. I'll say on the case of "Rada" that went into bankruptcy in 2000. It pulls 400 companies, entire construction and industrial operations, both manufacturers and service providers. 400 companies have been blocked in a particular section because the procedure is not being resolved in this case. Furthermore, with the degree of calming down, it is 25% of the bankruptcy mass in the case of Serbia. In Germany it is 52, in Croatia 30%, in Bulgaria 32%, in Romania 29%. We're somewhere at the end of that scale, especially in our region. The cost of the procedure is very bad. The cost of the procedure is 23% of the bankruptcy. In Germany it is 8%, in Croatia it is 15%, in Bulgaria and Romania it is 9%. This is what needs to worry. The costs of the procedure, only because the proceedings take too long, because we have the will of the creditors and the bankruptcy councils to which it is somewhat appropriate. When I say a little bit then we must say that their desire to do so lasts long. Why shouldn't it last? Who's watching them? Who's pushing them? Do they have legal sanctions for non-execution? They don't. They're left with social property and state property to dispose of as they please, without any control. It's not a hell of a bankruptcy case open in 2006. Namely, it's only one procedure. We know in practice that there are dozens and hundreds of them, and perhaps thousands, to which we should respond and take action against bankruptcy managers, all under the auspices of the court and the bankruptcy council, which also does nothing to speed up this process. Are we going to get something from this law in terms of a reduction in deadlines, a reduction in the length of bankruptcy procedures, an increase in confidence rates and whether or not we are going to cut the costs of the procedure? We won't. In the material regulation that lies ahead, we do not have strict provisions that will speed up this process. That's what the government needs to worry you about. That's not what you're worried about. The alarming situation is that today we have 63,000 blocked legal persons accounts by the tax administration. All those legal faces will end tomorrow in bankruptcy proceedings. Who will lead this bankruptcy procedure 63,000? From your explanation of the bill, you're saying that there are 20,000 more indivisible and only 25,000 or 26,000 active legal entities. These 25 or 26,000 active legal entities must create a budget that we will discuss in five or six days. They must pump into the budget as much as necessary for the irrational public spending financed by this country, financed by this people. What about these 63,000 blocked legal entities? All owners and all those tied up, legal persons and workers who worked in those legal entities, ended up on the black market. The black market is now a business carrier, a business operator. Why? Because we don't have an adequate legal system to stop negative currents. If the company's liquidity is such that the state has to stop it and she did it, she has to finish the procedure, finish it as soon as possible. It's in the interest of the state, that we all know where we are. This is how those legal faces don't work. They went into the gray zone and they work and they do business, they don't pay anybody anything. Do we have a sanction? We don't have a sanction. That should be your concern and common concern. Unfortunately, there's no movement. This legislative project will do nothing to speed up the process, reduce the length of the bankruptcy process, make confidences calm down at a higher percentage. And the third thing, that costs are as low as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33123	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33124	This may be the most important member of this law, given that this article defines the objective of bankruptcy. The objective of bankruptcy is to bring about the most favourable collective settlement of creditors in achieving the highest possible value of the creditor, i.e. its assets. In this article, I suggested that after the words - collectively, add the word - financially, given that it is also related to that Article 1. The government's explanation is the same as in the first case. I don't think they're right. However, what is important in this goal is that it must be openly said that this is just a political declaration, and it does not stand behind it the real desire and goodwill of the state to meet the trustees, to meet, in the extreme case, and to the debtor and to get out of bankruptcy as much as possible, in a way that will undermine his capital and as little as possible his assets, and on the other hand, that trustees settle in the highest percentage. What the legislator did not install, it needs to worry all of us, is a matter of deadlines, deadlines that will have to be respected by the court and which will be a rule, which will be too inclusive, which will allow the bankruptcy trustee to participate in the bankruptcy mass as quickly as possible, and on the other hand, to end the procedure as soon as possible. Here, with this member, we must further note that the creditor in this case is the victim, the victim of the bankruptcy council so far, and will now be the victim of the bankruptcy court and the bankruptcy directors. Why the victim? Because the procedures, deadlines and actions provided for by this law are too long. They must be too inclusive, very short. We have creditors who went into bankruptcy proceedings with very small amounts. I can't complete the procedure under normal circumstances, about these procedures last a year. In more complex procedures, it takes several years. What assets and capital can suffer the way our courts work, and how do bankruptcy managers work? I'll point you to one case. Unfortunately, there was no bankruptcy, but only thanks to the Committee for the National Assembly Industry and the merits of the workers who did not allow bankruptcy. It's about a social company called "Ravnica" from gurre. It's a business that entered the privatisation process in 2003. Unfortunately, the Privatisation Agency has failed to complete the privatisation of the company since 2003. Why isn't that? It's a company that wasn't sold in the meantime, to be bought by someone who wants to deal with the conditioning industry because this company deals with the conditioning industry. That company has no losses. This company has no obligation to the workers. This company regularly pays for profits, material and immaterial costs. This company has no obligations to suppliers. So, a mature and healthy company. The company isn't insolvent, it's not insolvent. Why wasn't it sold? Because it's been set up. It was due to the need to liquidate and reduce the value of the assets and buy on the market from bankruptcy or from the liquidation of those debris remaining after the liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings. But the workers were aware of the situation they were in. The strike prevented two and a half months of people who were appointed by the government from entering the company. On a proposal from the Agency for Privatisation and Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the government appointed President Vuk Peric, at the same time director at the Privatisation Agency. Look, this same Vuk Peric, whose task was to privatise it, is his government obligation, which is why he came here and works in that place, he has not done it in these five years as long as privatisation lasted. He was appointed chairman of the board of directors by the government's decision, and a pensioner named Slavoljub Popovic, a supplier of the company, was appointed. Imagine the situation. What's the conflict of interest? A man who is a pensioner, who is a supplier of enterprises, is being appointed by the government, with the knowledge and address of the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as acting official. So, we don't have young people, legal or economic professions, or any other professions, but we're setting up pensioners, just so that this same pensioner, this same supplier, would buy this company in some bankruptcy proceedings. It is a happy environment, but it should serve as an example for all other workers to fight for their businesses, just as the president of the state, Tadic, said that workers are fighting for their businesses, for their jobs, 400 Ravanica workers, the conditor's industry from Ćupri, defended two and a half months from the insurgency of state authorities, people who came from the Agency, various inspections, police, prosecutors, etc. And they saved their factory. This must be an example to everyone else in Serbia as it defends its factories. Today, this same factory works and generates income. In those two and a half months as they were blocked, while on strike, they didn't make any personal profits, and now they find that through normal work and normal business. You see, Serbian citizens, workers, how to rob. The robbery is supported by state authorities, in this case with the participation of the Privatisation Agency, with the participation of the Serbian government and other state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33125	It's been used for six minutes and 27 seconds. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33126	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, and above all respected citizens of Cupre, there are us from Pomorava who are not so far from Cupre, who we know little about the situation in Ravanica, and yet I would let the Ravanica factory be told not only by interested parties and people who work there, but when it becomes the subject of a serious procedure, how that continent that requires control of financial operations is rounded up, only then can we talk about whether workers have defended or not the factory and whether it took a little sooner or maybe a little later to defend it. But I really don't want to reconsider any views. I think it would be much better if we talked about the factory "Ravanica" and about the business of the factory not during the prism for one year, over the prism for two years, but to look at how much property the factory had in 1991, 1993, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2005, 2006. I think only then could we see whether the factory was saved or not and whether it was meant to save that factory sooner or not. When we talk about this factory "Ravanica", we need to take a look at what was owned by that factory by the year 2000, by 2003, and what is now owned by this factory and where is this property when the factory is not privatized? Where did the property of the Ravanica factory go? I'd be really careful about that, and I wouldn't make such bold claims.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33127	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33128	Mr. Milivojevic, you weren't there, you have no insight into the business of this company. I noted that the company, which has no dinar loss for one year, which has no unmistakable obligations towards workers, according to suppliers, has a clear reconciliation of all obligations towards the state, has a record of the tax administration from 2006, 2007, 2009, which confirms that it is an enterprise that has not committed any violations or a commercial offence in the period 2006 to 2009. The Privatisation Agency has deliberately provided information to the public that it is a criminal enterprise, etc., which has been denied from their side through several tax administration records showing that the company has operated in accordance with the law. That's one thing. Secondly, it's a healthy company that the state was supposed to sell. Just a non-serious state like ours didn't sell that company. The Privatisation Agency has one single task – to sell all enterprises in social property because it is a warrant under the provisions of the Privatisation Act. Why didn't she do it? Why didn't she do it in the other 600 and some company that's been hanging out for a day or two? Why wasn't it done at 444 companies that are simply, at this point, in the sky or on the ground. May they be in bankruptcy, may they be left for mercy and mercy. Why? Because we don't have a national strategy in the system for privatising social and state property. We don't have it written. Every government and every single person in the ministry decides what they want, because we don't have an ear, we don't have rules that will bind us. On the other hand, the same privatisation agency had to complete the privatisation process with 31. 12. In 2008. Why was that transferred in 2009? And today, we have companies that we don't know what we're going to do. What are we going to do with these companies that we haven't sold? What does the national strategy say? Nothing. Because we don't have it. Then we go with arbitrary interpretations. One minister says we'll sell it, the other says we won't, that we'll liquidate, etc. It's one hopelessness, the hopelessness of the authorities because you didn't know what you were in a hurry, etc., expecting everything to go just like the cementists, the milkers and the other companies that were sold in booze. But what about those who are insolvent and insolvent? Nothing. That's what's up with us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33129	You used three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33130	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33131	There's no replica. So you used the time of the authorised representative one minute and two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33132	I've been called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33133	Please, you didn't ask for a word based on the replica, nor would you get a word based on the replica, because Mr Milivojevic expressed his opinion, and he didn't mention you. That's where we finished the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33134	I've been called to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33135	We won't discuss it. Mr. Milivojevic has been called. I apologize, Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33136	Mr. Novakovic, I would like to draw attention that you just violated article 27 in the part where you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. If the MP Milivojevic directly focused his discussion on what Mr. Buha said, he even said that he was so boldly presenting certain facts, etc., did Mr. Buha want to explain something that he did not understand correctly or felt, or did he feel that the address of the MP was offensive? You had to let him get a line, that's the first thing. The second thing, when Mr Milivojevic spoke, I do not know on what basis he spoke, he is entitled to the amendment as a member of his parliamentary group, but in the end you did not say it, so it was not understood whether he was replicating or speaking within his parliamentary group. However, the position of the SRS is that any MP can speak as much as he wants and about whatever he wants, but you can't take the time of the parliamentary group. So, you were under obligation, logically it was that Mr. Buha wanted to replicate, anyone would have done it. If your assessment is that he has no right to reply, then you should have told him on what basis, because he spoke before that, and it wouldn't have made sense to continue the story of the amendment when he was already speaking. If you had told him if he wanted a replica, he might have said he didn't want to, because he wants the time of the parliamentary group as an authorised representative in another way to distribute. So you've broken the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to concentrate while you're doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33137	Article 101, the right to replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we all know very well, it is the discretionary right of the chairman. Mr. Buha hasn't called on that member for a moment. He got the word, because I don't see any reason why the chairman would deny any MP. This is what we're done with. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, the Assembly will declare in the day of the vote that the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radeta, pointed out. Mr. Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33138	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, but above all, citizens of Cupre, I am not obliged to say what I want and what I think, but only what the facts say, and the facts say that the Ravanica factory has not existed since 2006, but since 1958. During that period, some developmental journeys took place, acquired some property, and the property grew to some 1990s, and then part of that property magically disappeared from the “Ravanica factory. ” Many of the facilities owned by the Ravanica factory are no longer owned by that factory, so I just want to say that when we talk about privatisation, successful or unsuccessful at all, all the facts should be considered. I am neither a financial officer nor an auditor, I am a national MP, I have a mandate, both the citizens of Kruševec and the citizens of Čupre, to fight for their interests in the way I do it. Maybe someone thinks I should do it differently. I welcome everyone's kind of political action, political opinion and political struggle, but if the facts don't agree with someone's opinion, it seems so much worse by the facts. However, the facts are impregnable. The factory "Ravanica" does not exist since 2006, since 1958. She had some property in her possession, and I think we've exhausted this subject enough. Let each of you stay in your positions or go out with your MP group in front of the citizens of Cupre and explain who's right or let him look at the results of the election in Turkey, so we'll be clear to him who's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33139	I welcome the citizens of Tzupre. Thank you on their behalf, but the subject is the bankruptcy law and I ask you to return to the law, regardless of what the subject, otherwise of Ravanica, is absolutely, I accept, very interesting and requires a completely different discussion. Mr. Petrovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel a moral obligation to say a few sentences, because I am a member of the Management Board of the Ravanica Society. I would ask you not to use the opportunity of any parliamentary group to buy some political points on the basis of what we are going to say whether something is done right or wrong in "Ravanica". Let the state authorities do their job. There was little turbulence about making with the Ravanica Company. Whoever's been making bigger or smaller mistakes, they'll end up seeing each other. However, just from yesterday's session of the Management Board of Ravanica I can tell you that the 2010 Work Plan was adopted, that the report was adopted financially at the end of the tenth month of 2009, that at the moment "Ravanica" is working successfully, that at the moment "Ravanica" pays salaries, i.e. earning its workers who are quite normal for the turkey opportunities. About what happened in 2006, 2007 or some earlier years, if anyone has wronged the law, etc., they have state authorities to examine it. There have been mistakes, probably on one side and on the other, but my views on the Committee on Industry have been known when I spoke as a member of that committee when it comes to "Ravanica", and I think I have the most right to speak of "Ravanica" because I just came from the Pomorava County and I can say to myself that I am just an MP, because I'm only eight kilometers away from Cupre, these workers, and I don't think of protecting any illegalities, any of which came from the Agency, whether they came from some other state bodies or from the workers of Ravanica. Therefore, we are talking about the amendment and addition of the Banks Act and let us not use "Ravanica", there are many levels in Serbia that we can talk about in the context of another member. Let's concentrate on amending and supplementing the law, to pass this law that may better address the issue of bankruptcy in some other way, or at some nearer time when this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33141	I thank Mr Petrovic and of course we want Ravanica company long and happy, and a successful working century. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33142	The way we talk about these laws in principle, and in particular, it is not very happy in terms of possibilities and the need to repeat some things because of the time gap between these two discussions and the need for each parliamentary group to express its principled position and even for discussions in particular. I will take the opportunity to really repeat the basic finding that this law is in bankruptcy, which is otherwise specific to our circumstances, as it is to other countries in transition, but in our particular, because it was never particularly interested in billing claims, nor creditors, nor are they obliged to do some reorganization in a system of property that was collective, which produced no responsibility and that this kind of inheritance creates a special problem for us in applying the law that was before this. However, instead of the existing law that should have made some positive shifts, we have received a law that produced a caste of licensed bankruptcy managers, with which one term came for the people to understand what the gold umbrella meant, which itself, and using the basic law, determined such fees, that with gold umbrella and special caste of bankruptcy managers could be compared only to the practice that had started to be applied, and it was called the golden parachute, where those who had come from nowhere, from various sides, from the white world, and by private relationships with people who after 5 October 2000 were able to hire their friends, to work a year or two in some of the well-being companies, and then to seek compensation, in accordance with whose height they could do nothing, and to be entitled to be entitled to be entitled gold paramount, because they are hundreds of euros. What I am burdening you as the author of this law is that you are one of those advisors who, applying these golden umbrella and golden parachute systems, leaves the largest number of Serbian residents to live like the ground and in the black mine, because when someone takes the gold, the other remains the other, because the sources are exhausting and are not non-renewable. I resent that you did not prohibit those who paid such severances from using privileged information in those two years for which they received huge money when they were in positions that allowed them, for not punishing such abuses, and for which you were required under the ban on competition, according to the Labour Act. This type of alleged story about the protection of the interests of workers, employees or the protection of the interests of those you are firing in order to allegedly find a job is particularly hypocritical in the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy law in this country is still a synonym for stealing. The application of the Banking Act in this country is still a synonym for enriching the governance structures and directors who, by bringing the company into bankruptcy, have opened themselves companies dealing with the same activity that their company had, whose jobs and the market had inherited. What did the workers get? What did the largest number of workers get? Untrust in the state. A completely established story that most of them, at over 50 years of age, were left without being able to work somewhere, that the state owed them through these and such companies, for example, by 36 unpaid salaries. But if it weren't for anyone's concern, or it became the last concern, and everything under the company of the supposed criteria under which you enforce this law, which is protecting the interests of the trustees. What type of employees were they in these companies? Can they be considered confidants for what they've been carrying out and not getting paid? Whether they can be considered personally responsible and guilty of allowing their employers to pay part of their salary, while at the same time not to pay contributions, taxes and what at the time of the SDK was a regular and compulsory practice, that pensions and pensions were paid to these people. A hypocrisy where you, under the company of law enforcement stories, provide a chance for the company to reorganize, that people get a job, in fact, create a business-privatization crime that leaves a lot of work for the judiciary to be reformed, so it cannot achieve not speedy conduct of the procedure, but also take into consideration the procedures that you transfer to them in the jurisdiction of such proceedings. Writing lightly and superficially from countries in Europe, where there is the interest of a private owner to continue to operate, to regulate his debts, or that one whose claim has been blocked in another private enterprise, through a court of credibility, which is not exposed to political influence, with which time has been known to end, cannot be painted on Serbia. I say for one basic, inherited reason, meaning, objective circumstances, which is the kind of ownership that was collective and where that manner of responsibility was not carried out either through bankruptcy proceedings or through the protection of bonds contracts and purchase contracts in this sense. Instead of becoming the basis for law enforcement and an effective procedure that costs at least, you in one of the amendments, for example, answer to me as an SNS MP - why am I asking them to make payments to bankruptcy managers as you put it in the basic criteria? Yeah, I'm making fun of you because you deserve it. Your basic criterion is efficiency. But you didn't say efficiency for who. Is this efficiency for the state as a trustee, efficiency for jobless workers, efficiency for using funds or efficiency for bankruptcy managers and those who allegedly, by means of a method of now random choice, send to companies to do what has not been done through privatisation? The basic criterion you set in defining this law is not to be implemented, but, as stated in Article 9, the bankruptcy procedure is two degrees, unless this law excludes the legal remedy. I ask the citizens of Serbia to hear this sentence, not to wait for the finished truths that you serve them as the extraordinary success of the work that will be done with this. The bankruptcy procedure is two-degree unless this law excludes the legal remedy. How is the two-degree, if it's behind the score, excluded by this law where there's no right to appeal, where it rules out that revision, and what's the basic, where you say this procedure is, is it true, it's being conducted in fact with a litigation procedure? There are no limits to how long, for example, a request procedure can take. You don't say anywhere how long any court proceedings must take, but this one, which you're interested in, has to be completed in two years. Is that a definition of the time limit for achieving efficiency? No, it's not safe. The system of exceptions introduced in this article, whose erasure I seek, is the rule of your conduct. Public agencies, you say, operate in accordance with this law, so there goes the decimal, if anything else isn't prescribed by some law. When you are told that they do not operate in accordance with the Public Agency Act, because income does not go to the Ministry of Finance, to the Treasury, to the budget, but goes to some blurred roads that you are not interested in establishing and saying, it is in accordance with some special law that regulates the area. A man doesn't have to be a lawyer, so he can see this evil intention, to see this possibility not of a double, but of a hundred times the interpretation of such a legal standard. All he has to do is be conscious enough to remember the effects of these and these laws, and it's not hard to see through the intentions of these and these laws at all. For example, in this law you say that the basis for bankruptcy is late payment, or blocked account. I'll tell you how company, how countless companies have entered this form, that bankruptcy can be carried out over them. Contracts with the end-user some project, to build an object, perhaps even in the regular procedure of public procurement get jobs. When they get a job to do that job, the company that got that job, for example, construction, has to hire a designer, order, do a specific project, the part that she invested for public procurement, is not big, then has to hire workers, get material, get all this neatly paid, with VAT normally, first state what it belongs to. He pays all the obligations to society, maybe even owes himself a loan, to complete the project within the time limit, or to build the facility. What happens, for example. When after 90 days some smaller object, some kindergarten, even for the state, some object ends? There's a problem. The contracting party, the job manager, does not pay, starts to settle obligations to one, two, for several months and the contractual side, means the construction firm enters into conditions that may mean direct bankruptcy. What does that mean? She can't settle her obligations, because she didn't charge what she invested. If those obligations last only 30 or 45 days, the door knocks on the person who pays the tax and can open up a bankruptcy on such a firm, means over a security firm, over someone who respected the laws, who settled his obligations, paid taxes, made a deadline of construction as agreed. During that time, while he is late to pay off some new tax obligations, because the month passes quickly when it is due, but it takes a long time when it is earned, the inspection comes, punishes him, e.g. which did not pay taxes and contributions to workers, fiscal costs, block the account, stop the other business partners from doing business, and there is nothing left for the conscious contracting party but to file a case against the court. But now he needs money for a court fee. He's blocked, how can he pay? How can a legal person pay a court fee in cash? The problem is, he can't. The court automatically, if it does not pay that court fee within the time limit, determines the fine 50% higher and blocks the bill for that amount. The bench goes on and on and on. The company can be blocked so that by a decision of law, at best, which lasts about a year and a half, and most often for two and a half to three years, it's decided, even if it gets, to tell it by the court's discretion, as much money as it can't cover only criminal interest on what the state owed because the state allowed someone who was safe and orderly to get into this situation. If the court has ordered the payment of this debt, when it tries to collect damages from whoever ordered the construction facility from it, Mr. Luka, you have explained how our law allows, this company shuts down the existing one, opens up a new one at the Agency for Business Registers, without any restrictions, because you say it's a world practice, no one checks what obligations remain on that previous company. What's left of an honest man in this country with laws like this? Do you protect the trustee's interest, if someone asked me if this law protects the interest of the debtor or the trustee, do you know what I could tell them - no, a law like this, where for example. It only says in principle -- the random choice of a bankruptcy manager, and it doesn't even regulate a superficially that institute, I can only say this -- in the largest number of laws of the Serbian state, Ilija Markovic, a satirist, best describes what laws are, in them are legal gaps, such holes that have forced themselves into the power of an individual who actually has political friendships. So if he's protecting the debtor, if he's in debt to someone who has ties in power or protects the trustee, if he's still got friends in power. The basic purpose of every law is to be just. This law is not fair. This law prevents the protection of confidential interests and the efficiency of the process, although it is reportedly basic criteria. To conclude, Article 9, which allegedly prescribes two degrees, and behind the comma, as soon as it says "other than", makes it impossible, is the best illustration of the quality of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33143	As an authorised representative, you no longer have time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33144	I'm just going to do a few sentences, finish up around Tzupre. This company deserves attention, not because there was a strike there, but because it's an example of how the state can't work like it did in this case in 500 and some cases. Now we have a legal dilemma -- what is the government going to do about this company? Namely, it's a social enterprise. By law, that company should be liquidated. As a member of the board of directors and MPs, he must know, we have pointed that out to the Committee on Industry and we have concluded that there is no liquidation. We can't put this company in a position that's healthy, which is a credit rating, which is liquid, to be liquidated tomorrow. In this regard, Article 14a of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, all enterprises not sold until 31 December 2008 and all undertakings for which no sale is scheduled, whether auction or tender, are going into liquidation. In this situation, the state needs to find a solution. Why hasn't such a company been sold? It's a basic dilemma, and you know what's behind it all. As for Article 11(2) of the Law proposal, I suggested that the word "sustainable" be deleted. Article 11 provides for bankruptcy reasons, we have a total of four. The first among them is a more permanent inability to pay. What's listed here is incomplete. And so far, this provision has caused huge problems and this legal formulation has continued to be maintained. In fact, there is a more permanent inability to pay, he says, "if a creditor: 1) cannot respond to his cash obligations within 45 days of the day of maturity; 2) completely suspend all payments over an uninterrupted period of 30 days." This rule of law will create conditions for every company in the country to be subject to bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Few businesses today in Serbia have the opportunity to settle their monetary obligations within 45 days and there is no continuous duration of 30 days. We can't do this. In terms of liquidity, insolvencies of enterprises, in conditions of inability to obtain adequate credit lines, in conditions of blockades by the state, economic operators are blocked and there is no possibility of breaking up without adequate State aid, and there is no State aid. Such a legal formulation will create preconditions, arbitrary opportunities for creditors who want to damage a debtor because he has failed to meet certain obligations. On the other hand, what's done so far has been bankruptly bigger tomorrow will be done by a bankruptcy judge, and we won't talk about the wardens because a million situations where they've abused the law, and this is a convenient opportunity for them to achieve what they've done so far through this legal norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33145	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Grujic, you're in the system. Do you want your amendment or do you want the word now? (Young Grujic, from the place: I want a word. Here, you have a word. Mr. Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33146	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, when Minister Dinkic spoke about this law in the assembly a few weeks ago assured us of the good and useful solutions ahead of us in this law. I was really ready to believe his claims. It is possible that I am naive or well-intentioned or I really want to believe that we finally had one bill that is in the interest of all citizens. We in New Serbia have delivered 15 amendments with a desire to help him with that intention, in the general interest. Of these 15 amendments, only one was accepted, and it is terrible that you rejected our proposal to introduce a new member in the proposal, which treats the responsibility of the Privatisation Agency, the bankruptcy centre. The explanation you gave us to refuse our amendment is as follows - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the draft law does not mention the Agency for Privatisation, the bankruptcy centre. That's the problem, not to mention in the Privatisation Agency's bankruptcy law, the bankruptcy center. Let me, who doesn't know, explain the importance of a bankruptcy centre that treats all social enterprises that meet the conditions for bankruptcy. This matter is a completely gray zone, not treated in the bankruptcy law. No one can say with certainty how many companies are under their authority, not because they don't know it, but because it's very difficult to come by. Let me explain to you, when a private company meets the conditions for bankruptcy, it is blocked, it is not solvent, there is a procedure that exists in the previous bankruptcy law, in force and will be clear in this new one. Society companies, when they're blocked, they meet the conditions of bankruptcy, the jurisdiction over them is not taken over by the court, but the privatisation agency, the bankruptcy center, and then the amorphosic state of things begins, nothing is understood, understood, undefined, no one can ask anything, everything is under some kind of secret. They don't end the bankruptcy, no one controls them. When I say no one controls them, I mean the real state bodies, not the para-state structures we have. We need to define this state of affairs. Your explanation is that there is no need to define it because the bankruptcy centre serves only in this short period of time, while privatisation is going on, and privatisation has been going on for at least this long. We have social enterprises that meet the conditions for bankruptcy and they are not under the jurisdiction of the court, which is worrying, but the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It's bad precedent and bad practice. If we have laid down what the rules are for private companies, then the same thing should apply to social enterprises, because as far as I understand it, property social and private is even. This is just another example of how this government has not responded to the amendments submitted by the opposition. The opposition did not write this amendment, I am talking about our party, and I have the impression that others have such a case, not because we had nothing to do, but in an honest intention to improve the law, whose proper use is necessary in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33147	Four minutes and 10 seconds of authorized time...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33148	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33149	From the time of the authorised representative or from the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33150	An authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33151	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has for a long time pointed to the need to amend the bankruptcy law. Our wish was to point out all the many shortcomings in practice, i.e. to try to force the authorities to pay attention to the removal of all those factors that have caused procedural legal doubt, both for the status of creditors and for the status of bankruptcy debtor or bankruptcy. Our expectation was that this proposal for a bankruptcy law would allow for the possibility of recovery of debtors to be increased to a sufficient, adequate extent. However, if the draft bankruptcy law is carefully read, it is clear that it is fundamentally and in principle not different from the one that has been in force for the past five years, and also, the concept of how it was imagined this bill was made for the state in which the market economy operates, it is clear that Serbia is not in such a situation. Hence, and a large number of amendments submitted to the bill. Those unpleasant experiences we have in the past few years, related to various abuses in which both the state and employees of the companies that have been liquidated, the fact that the bankruptcy process lasts the longest in the region and Europe and the fact that this is obviously too much lost time in a situation of macroeconomic instability, in which the state of Serbia, has forced us to submit more amendments on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The one submitted to Article 11(2) refers precisely to bankruptcy reasons, i.e. in particular to the position relating to the threatening incompetence of the law, and as explained by the Proposer, the threatening insolvency of payment exists if the creditor makes it likely that his already existing monetary obligations will not be met by maturity. We have requested the removal of point 2) of Article 1(2). The draft bankruptcy law, since it is obvious that you could hear it from this explanation that the government, or the competent ministry, has given the applicant of this bill, in both legal and financial terms, rather vaguely, and that in application it can only contribute to further problems, and in no way solve what is the essence of this bill, which should solve this and how sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33153	Thank you. Three minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, one minute and 10, I apologize, well, I'm beginning to make a mistake in your favor. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good to have Mladjan Dinkic sitting here today, we'd have something to ask him. This article 11 and an attempt to fix some amendments as best spoken about what awaits us if this law is passed. Article 11: "A bankruptcy procedure shall be opened when at least one of the bankruptcy reasons is established". One of these reasons is, at point 2), the inability to pay is threatening. You have already heard in an explanation from Mr. Vladan Jeremic what is considered to be under the threatening inability to pay. If this applies, then no company, or any company, will work, and neither will the state. It happened several times that, say, VAT returns were almost 30 days late. What happens, say, with these big trade chains, first of all Delta, Maxie, and others who don't settle their obligations for six months or more? Is there going to be bankruptcy in any way? Will this law really apply? They won't, because it's already legal to allow someone to assess whether or not they've acquired the conditions. There'll be conditions for someone, they won't be for someone. It will depend on many reasons, but, above all, there will be political reasons. If that were the case, we are best told the practice and our experience that we already have when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic and the oligarchy that came after October 5th to power. Just to remind you, I suppose you haven't forgotten about the bankruptcy of the four largest banks in Serbia that have executed: Miroljub Labus, Radovan Jelasic, Vesna Djindjic, Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic. It is the Investbank, Beobank, Jugobank and the Belgrade Bank. It started in 2002, and the bankruptcy isn't over yet and who knows when it'll be over. This is one of the biggest criminal actions that has practically destroyed the banking system in Serbia and for which these listed and all those who have helped them destroy the banking system and these four banks in Serbia must correspond. According to the Deposit Insurance Agency's report, it shows banks demand 6.71 billion euros from the economy and own another 56,978 square metres of exclusive business space, while their debts to creditors are 1.37m euros. Almost five times more, and more than five times their value, and they're in bankruptcy. What they're for, it's clear to everyone. On every corner, anywhere, in any village, next to the trade, you will see some expositories of some of the banks that have been opened in 15 years and that are peeling skin off the back of Serbian citizens, and nothing. It is said, according to a stenogram of the 32nd session of the Deposit Insurance Agency, that Labus, as vice president of the federal government, admitted that he and the present were responsible for closing the largest domestic banks. The session was attended by Vesna Djinic, Radovan Jelasic, Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic. So, this five is undoubtedly the most responsible, among them, in order: Miroljub Labus, then Mladjan Dinkic, then Bozidar Djelic, Jelasic and Vesna Djinic. It is said that these banks that were successfully closed only to Sartide asked for a billion and two hundred million dollars, only from Sartide, and Sartide was sold for 21 million dollars. Here's where the biggest robbery is. Here's how they robbed Serbia. One of the biggest examples of the five-member haral gang burning and burning Serbia and robbing Serbia. In all estimates, a bankruptcy procedure will not be closed for much longer, because every day on their accounts, their accounts are alive, money is coming. Let's see how those who ran the banks in bankruptcy managed the property. According to the bank's business space in bankruptcy was sold below the market price, so during 2007, the square meter of the South Bank space on average cost only 30,789 dinars, slightly more than 320, 330 euros, perhaps 350 euros, a square meter of business space. The business space and Investbanke was sold for 53,859 dinars per square. The best indicator that the bank's assets are managed is Beobanka, whose business space is in downtown Belgrade and sold for 77,424 dinars, about 800 euros per square. According to data available to all, the price of business space in downtown Belgrade is currently below 3,500 euros per square metre, and some bars and offices that are difficult to find cost more than 5,000 euros per square metre. Should it be better evidence than this that this gang should answer and that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office should finally initiate proceedings based on criminal charges that Mr Batic, among other things, did not have Mr Batic, and Mr Batic started. The top of all this is information about how much money those who have managed this property have taken. They say the liquidators received 334 million dinars in a year. I am also asking a parliamentary question, to answer me – what were the liquidators and how much individually did they get for the work they did for these four banks? Believe that Serbia has fallen under real occupation, it is formally occupied, but by the fifth column of government on behalf of the occupier. They're not even responsible for this. In America, where there's been bankruptcy for some branches of Beobank, that's where it's legal. That's where they went into the bank, they listed the entire property, and they put it in a special account, because they're aware that if someone ever starts any procedure, they'll have to answer. If they had occupied Serbia and entered these banks, they would have had to do the same. They'd have to write down all the assets, all the debts, all the claims, because one day someone would ask that question, and they'd have to answer. Nothing like this to anyone. The banking system is still completely destroyed, i.e. there is no way to recover, and those who are most responsible still shake Serbia and are proposing laws that will fix the bankruptcy situation. If they'd made a spoon of soup once in their lives, they'd have acted differently. Just because they've never done anything in their lives, but they've come with two bags, a purse and a bow, some with a kalashnikov raided the National Bank of Yugoslavia, that's why they destroyed this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33155	Ten minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word first gets Mr. Mladen Grujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33156	Excuse me, how much time do I have left as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33157	As an authorised representative, you have four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33158	We just heard in the previous presentation, let's call it, the problem of Article 11. We currently have 28 MPs from different parties who have proposed amendments to Article 11. It's impossible that 28 people in this room are crazy or doono or don't know what they're doing. We have a Article 11. The terms of bankruptcy are defined. There are conditions for bankruptcy that are clear to anyone in this room, who's watching this house, whoever we stop on the street. It is known when the company cannot fulfil its obligations. We have a problem with adding another word – over-indebtedness, as a condition for bankruptcy and the way Minister Dinkic explained it last time is not bad. I can agree with that, but unfortunately, the law leaves so much space to be interpreted in a hundred different ways. I believe that Mr. Minister said in his best interest that over-indebtedness is something that can only be used when the company decides to declare itself over-indebted. Sadly, it does not say in the law or I could not read it, or 28 MPs in this congregation did not understand it. I'm afraid we'll have a situation where the term "debt" judges use all the other grounds that are not in the law, and we have many such experiences in the country. The esteemed colleague cited an example of the trade chains. I think it's a much bigger problem for construction firms. Every construction firm in this country belongs, under the new bankruptcy law, to a group of companies for which bankruptcy should be called because they are over-indebted. So all of their buildings, all of their locations that have been paid dearly in recent years, are now much less worth it, not perhaps because these companies have worked badly, but because of the situation in the world and with us. So, they're all over-indebted today, and if someone wanted to and had an evil intention, God forbid, they could declare bankruptcy in these companies. I want to draw attention to the fact that at this point we are talking about a problem involving 60 or 62,000 companies in this country, which, if on average, they have three employees, and they have more. I'm talking about a problem involving 200,000 people. At this point, we have 11 MPs, including you, Mr. Chairman, from the ruling coalition who want to discuss the problem. They can't possibly be interested in that problem. To return and say once again, for Article 11, the 28 MPs proposed, pleaded, asked the government to do something with him. You're deaf. Isn't that a little weird for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33159	Three minutes and 40 seconds have been used. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33160	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I am not known as a man who likes to speak to people behind his back. I answered after Mr. Dragan Todorovic's speech, but after he escaped from the O.R., I would like to talk to you about this topic that the government in Serbia is "the fifth column", I will wait, I guess. I'll be in this room for at least a few more years, I'm not sure about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33161	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33162	The Prosperity Group, Serbia, has submitted an amendment to Article 14, which suggests that a bankruptcy reason which means that the inability to pay exists and that in the sense that 45 days cannot fulfil its obligations or that there has been a permanent disturbance in business, is not in fact. It doesn't matter, I'm talking about Article 11 on this basis, but I'm talking about one of these reasons, and I'm going to say a total of Article 11, where none of the criteria that are bankruptcy reasons is actually precisely defined. What does over-indebtedness mean, what was his colleague talking about? How is it determined? For example, the state has the first to be in charge of covering the current liquidity in the budget five percent of the total income and it has broken it, according to the DRI report. We know how a violation is determined, or how a criterion is established. It just says "overindebted" here. What is the basis of what is determined? It says that it's a threatening incompetence, I'm reading Article 11 of the Law, if a creditor makes it likely that he won't be able to meet his current monetary obligations as far as he can. “Make it likely”? Unheard of. Most interesting - overindebtedness exists if the property of a creditor is less than his obligations. I ask the Lord present on behalf of the Government if this formulation contains the experience of displaying property in the prospectuses for privatisation, where they knew to lose, fortures, forget squares, thousands of squares of enterprises that have a location in downtown Belgrade? Is it about companies where it was known to forget the entire facility or the most interesting companies in privatisation, where it was known to be forgotten in a prospectus of foreign debt, which was left knowingly to charge after privatisation and to pay for the alleged buyer, the money of that particular company, which stood on the foreign exchange account, paid for the company he allegedly bought? I'm saying it's supposed to be, but people like that actually signed up as company owners, and they're very valuable assets, very significant production range, and they're not one or two cases that are the exception. How dare you write a form like this and remind us of that crime that remained unpunished. How dare you say that there is an opportunity to initiate the procedure and that bankruptcy that is allegedly justified, when it is uncontested that the debtor is insolvent due to a permanent business disturbance, which you are merely establishing by assuming? Can one’s fate, life, pay, work be made on a basis to make it likely, assume, or give criteria that are not? In Article 11, you do not have any criteria that can really be called a bankruptcy, and it is truly unheard that such a formulation of what it means to change someone's business or to shut down is contained in something that tends to be called law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33163	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33164	This is where we asked for the word "sustainable" in Article 11(3) to be deleted, and in point 1, "45" to be replaced by "90". Article 11 speaks of bankruptcy reasons, and point 1 provides for this more permanent insolvency of payment as the first of bankruptcy reasons. We asked for the word "sustainable" to be deleted. Why? Because such a provision allows for the possibility of free interpretation, a very extensive, very broad interpretation, and thus the possibility of abuses that can occur in practice. So, there may be a situation here where there is a very different interpretation from case to case, because what in some cases is more permanent inability to pay for someone, in other cases, in interpreting someone else doesn't have to be a more permanent incompetence. The government did not even refer to the proposal to delete the "sustainable inability to pay" clause in its reasons for not accepting the amendment. If we carefully read part of the argument relating to a 45-day period and not 90-day period, as requested in the amendment, we would say who doesn't know where and what kind of society we live in, that we live in an ideal, harmonic, financial environment, where the disorderly reconciliation of the small obligations is not immediately sanctioned. The reality is completely different. If it were ideal, there wouldn't be so many firms in the blockade because of the default. The deadline we propose is more appropriate and therefore this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33165	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 11 The amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, as well as the previous member, in this Article 12, I have suggested that the word be deleted more permanently. Why delete? In fact, this word has no place in this article, and in a language sense it doesn't mean anything. If Article 11, when the reasons for the bankruptcy procedure are cited, it is said that a more permanent insolvency exists if the creditor has not responded to his obligations within 45 days of the date of maturity of the obligation or completely suspends payment for an uninterrupted period of 30 days, what does it mean to be more permanent? The deadlines are set. The deadlines are too inclusive. I can't overstep. What does it mean, more permanent? It's a funny explanation I got on this amendment. The government says - the amendment is not accepted because the debtor is unable to pay but on the first day of non-compliance with his obligations. What does it mean, more permanent? It goes on - a term more permanent indicates the existence of a time period in which the debtor must be incapacitated in order to launch bankruptcy, which is governed by Article 11. Directly indicates that it is understood that it can still continue, etc. There is no overlap between these two deadlines set by the legislator. He says, in practice so far, this term has not led to controversial interpretations, nor to unconsistent application. A miracle. Let's do a language thing that's unnecessary and then say it didn't cause unconsistent conjecture conditions. It's a miracle, but that's what happens with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33167	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33168	My colleague, Srdjan Spasojevic, has submitted an amendment wishing to address the problem of a large number of companies standing in some half-life of the blockade, nothing is happening because no one has to pay the cost of launching the bankruptcy and we have suggested that the Administration be the one who is obliged to do so and we have the answer that there is no money. That's not a good enough answer. Of course that's the problem, but this new bankruptcy law needs to solve the problems we have and we're not going to solve them this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33169	One minute was used by the MP's group. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 13 of the bankruptcy law, showed the peak of hypocrisy, as it predicted that in the event that the property of a creditor is of minor value, all the funds left to cover the cost of bankruptcy are paid into the RS budget. For you, Madam Minister, as the only government official present here, it is not important that the percentage of the settlement of creditors and bankruptcy in Serbia is not only the smallest in the region but also in the whole of Europe. I remind you that the level of settlement of creditors in Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and our nearest environment is about 30%, in Germany 52.2%, and in OECD countries 68.6, while in Serbia it is barely 10%. In addition to this kind of information, you're wondering why bankruptcy creditors aren't interested in bankruptcy proceedings? Why is this the state of affairs in Serbia? Because you have provided conditions and legislation that Serbia also has the most expensive bankruptcy procedure in Europe and it is 23% of the bankruptcy mass in Serbia, while in Bulgaria and Romania it is 9%, and in Germany it is barely 8. You don't define by Article 13. What a minor value that is. You are adding to the cost of bankruptcy, not to worry about creditors who are like the entire Serbian economy in a very difficult situation. The SNS amendment refers to the erasure of Section 3 of Article 13 and the part in which it is said - if, after covering the costs incurred, the remaining funds, these funds are paid into the RS budget. In your explanation, you stated that the amendment was not accepted because by definition it was an asset of minor value. However, Madam Minister, tell us what it is in your opinion, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, assets of little value? What is the exact value that you think is insignificant? Believe me, what is insignificant to you, for this impoverished Serbian economy and the bankruptcy trustees is very important and important. The purpose of this whole law is to quickly launch bankruptcy in the remaining non-privatised 350 social enterprises with over 5,000 employees, to reward your bankruptcy managers who can even be sentenced to a prison sentence of up to five years and that, through a great deal of trouble called bankruptcy, you want to provide funds for the RS budget. Why do you need those funds? To pave the same streets on Vozdovac several times, no tender and no project documentation. You need two kilos of sugar and flour you're trying to bribe the people of Voždovac. I am sure that the citizens of Vozdovac and Serbia know that those who offer these packages bribes today tomorrow, if they continue to exercise power on Vozdovac, will seek bribes, but much greater than flour and sugar. He who offers bribes, as Dragan Gilas and DS do, is ready to receive bribes. The citizens of Vozdovac and Serbia need different authority and different government. Therefore, accept the SNS amendment. Reduce the cost of the bankruptcy process, then pass most of the bankruptcy mass, not to the RS budget, but to the bankruptcy trusts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33171	It was used two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33172	My reaction was not to this amendment but to all amendments. Since we opened the discussion in particular, words have come only from the side of the opposition. The government's representatives are silent. They're waiting for the time to elapse, and someone might think this is an impotence of words or the infirmity of arguments. I'm confident, like all my colleagues, not that we think this isn't impotence, but the power to say arguments can be late, but it can't be missed. As the arguments presented in the DRI report arrived late, but still arrived, they produced a storm of pointless excuses, such as the one which was said that, even at the time of the report, there was a DRI and the report would not contain a provision in which it was actually forgotten to valorise the funds deposited and most of all by the Master of the Restitution Fund with positive exchange rates. Is it possible for someone to believe that the final account of any budget is done on the advice or recommendation of any institution or is it under the Accounting Act and other legal regulations governing that area? I am firmly convinced that all of what is in one quarter of the government's controlled parts, agencies and what is called public money, seriously enough to produce the responsibility of those who have abused money, i.e. that citizens will understand that it is pointless to withdraw the document relating to past events, because it cannot be changed, such a law and what, for example, the National Bank in the projection of monetary policy and the effects of the new policy suggests. And I suggest you look at the National Bank website -- current monetary and macroeconomic policy and movement. Here you will find a proposal to change the structure of the foreign reserve, where it says - that the banks of the Vienna Initiative will change the rate of the mandatory reserve, the dinar reserve, and be different from others. It's something that can still amaze a man in Serbia. The National Bank prescribes a selective reserve for the banks of the Vienna initiative? What kind of formal organization is this? What is this privileged banking institution that can use the revised measures of freed dinar to spend on increasing credit activities, buying the necessary foreign exchanges and placing them in securities of value or paper of the value of the National Bank of Serbia or of the state? Do you believe what I've brought you and what you can see on the NBS site, when you find the data in that same report -- how much the state spent, paying interest on this, how much it broke the law, exceeding the ability to print such securities of value. If this seems unreasonable to someone, it means that banks are not engaged in lending, but are trading -- with the National Bank and the State, regardless of the warning that has been going on for two years now about the devastating policy that the state is funding and fostering, that is, you're dealing with this kind of behavior. I really think that you underestimate the strength of the words and arguments that we present here, and I would like you to be a little more responsible for everything we say and that silence is not your only argument. I would really ask you to consider more seriously all of this as written documents and everything we're talking about here, because silence can be a salvation -- but not for the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33173	Five minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33174	Article 14 The draft bankruptcy law provides that the bankruptcy procedure is not to be implemented according to the Republic of Serbia and the AP, units of local self-government and funds or organisations of mandatory PIO and social and health insurance, legal persons, meaning this is important, i.e. legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units, which are exclusively or mainly financed through the incomes or from the republican budget, i.e. from the AP budget, the unit of local self-government. The proposal that came through this amendment is to delete this "or rather" thing. Why? Because the legal formulation has to be clear. What does it mean mostly? How much is that percent and what is the nominal amount -- it's incomplete and it's unclear? Now to hear what the Government has to say about this amendment, or in response to my amendment, the following is said - the amendment is not accepted because the term "mostly" is a sufficient guideline for the decision of the courts, in particular. A guideline is sufficient, and the assessment of largely budgetary financing has been left to the court to decide on it, in any case. So the court can do whatever it wants, mostly, so let the court decide. It goes on to say, any more precise regulation would be illogical and unnerving. This is really stupid. This is stupid, no matter what, I don't know who wrote it, but the signature is by the government. This is exactly, you agree with the chairman, this is "prenormation." I think the further explanation is too high. It's amazing the government's answers, but given who's working there and who's writing these answers, it's not surprising.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33175	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He has the word Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33176	Two minutes belonging to the amendment. So the bankruptcy procedure is foreseen -- for those for whom the state estimates that they should be over them, for example, by force of the law, to open a procedure, for those he assumes will not be able to settle obligations, which, by the guilt of others, have come into this state of indifference, where we do not know by what criteria they consider to be more obliged than property. The bankruptcy cannot still be executed, it must literally be highlighted - over public agencies, central registers, deposits and clearing of securities of value, and those who are solely or principally financed through services on public revenues. Do you think it's really okay, all possible and impossible laws, means of protection, high walls of ignorance of what these organizations do, protect them from bankruptcy - and why? Should these institutions show that they are working for the benefit of the state administration, i.e. the citizens for which they exist - to have quality and cheap services, transparent business and mode of work or to do what is right for them, to those who have established them, to protect them even though the state has no control over them? There are probably one or two board members who don't file reports. These agencies enter into purchasing and contractual relations with various other companies. So they can also harm someone and that some trustee asks them to execute the bankruptcy, but you protect them. What reason and what do they deserve? What business of interest and quality do they do, if they are on the list of those who earn from citizens a billion and 300 million euros, by doing the monopoly services that the state has given them, and over which the state has no insight? This is the highlight of what is called self-thinking, about the selfishness of a state that can behave like this - because bankruptcy of the state has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33177	It's 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33178	Mr. Novakovic, you began to read these amendments quickly as if you were training with the President of the Assembly, not so soon, but it's hard to catch up. Article 19 provides for official status and look at the protection of bankruptcy managers here, but it is not said that they have immunity, but is said to have official status in terms of the provisions of the Criminal Code which regulates the position of the official. At least one rule of law has to satisfy, it's to be clear and precise. Why is there an authorised organization in this law to deal with bankruptcy managers, and we know by law that there is an agency for licensing bankruptcy managers? Why are you going to such inaccuracy? Do you intend to change something later, so you call this organization an authorized organization? Are you ashamed that those who have produced the most anger in this country and have taken hundreds of thousands of rewards for the damage they have done, by carrying out bankruptcy proceedings or by carrying out the orders of those who have been brought here and chosen to provide them with the protection that officials have in terms of immunity? You say they do a responsible job and are often exposed to attacks by those over whom they need to carry out their decisions, so you protect them by carrying out those decisions as a court order. They don't deserve the bankruptcy directors of the status you're assigning them here, and I really think that this provision is completely excessive in Article 19, and that it's mandatory to delete, because if they've produced an odyssey with their appetites and greed, what else is this, but protection from condemning those who rightly object that these and these people should not be protected by immunity?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33179	From the time of the parliamentary group, 20 seconds. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33180	Article 20 is extremely interesting in its final position, where it introduces this law and otherwise into our legal system the minister responsible for bankruptcy operations. Believe me, I had a non-believer who dared to enter the Department of Justice in this way. What is bankruptcy as a procedure? Does he fall under judicial jurisdiction? Are the provisions of the litigation procedure applicable to Mr Dinkic and you who wrote for him the most important thing is that bankruptcy is carried out on companies and legal persons in the field of economy, so you have placed the power of the Minister of bankruptcy as one who deals with economics and regional development? It is truly amazing that the overlapping of three separate branches of government in which the executive government is trying to put under its control and legislative authority and judicial authority, now takes the situation such that even within the executive body, or government, the minister responsible for regional development and economy affairs, lies in the jurisdiction of the justice minister who, by nature of things, would have to deal with this work. I know there are a lot of cases where you have a problem with how to determine jurisdiction, given what is a dominant feature of determining jurisdiction. There is a problem in determining the method of customsing goods depending on how much domestic or foreign material is installed in certain goods. Is it overwhelming here that there is bankruptcy over some company, as a legal procedure, or that companies are in the area of economy? Or was it overwhelming that Mr. Minister, by the method of random selection, which is just named here as a new method, will choose people who will wonder about the lives and deaths of employees and about the existence or abolition of companies? I think your law pretty much discredits you in terms of legal proceedings, in terms of the basis of this law on the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and it is in some way proof of your obedience and of your obedience to the service of man, not of putting your professionalism in the service of the law that should serve the citizens. As one of the authors, I really don't think this member of the law recommends any further writing, any such or any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33181	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33182	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, members from 19th to 34th. The draft bankruptcy law refers to the legal position and status, powers and part-time work of the bankruptcy manager, which is one of the four relevant authorities in the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure, and as the practice has shown, often perhaps the most significant link in a sensitive chain made up of a bankruptcy judge, a bankruptcy administrator, a trustee assembly and a trustee committee. The reason for my previous claim is that it is within the scope of the business, i.e. the power of the creditor to indicate as many as 20 different items in its jurisdiction and to carry out most of these transactions on its own, has the power to raise credits, to borrow loans, or to supervise domestic and foreign natural and legal persons involved in bankruptcy operations. That's a lot, that's a lot. That fact itself says that it does not matter who and under what circumstances will be placed on such a responsible and important function, often dependent on the fate of the entire company, and hence hundreds and hundreds of workers and their family members. Therefore, my amendment refers to Article 21 of the proposed law, which provides for restrictions on the appointment of a bankruptcy manager, and, among other things, to this article, some nine cases, and nine reasons why a person cannot be appointed as a bankruptcy manager. The most important of these reasons would be: if the person is currently in custody or is subject to criminal proceedings against him, if he is a spouse, a blood or a Tasby relative of a bankruptcy judge or a director of a creditor, if he is a solid debtor with a creditor, and if, in the last two years prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, that person has been a member of the management body or of the supervisory board of undertakings, if he is a creditor or debtor and ultimately, if that person is an entrepreneur engaged in any activity that is competitive with the activity of the creditor. Therefore, I propose adding a new point 1 to Article 21 in front of the existing point 1 which would read: “If he is employed in a bankruptcy debt”. In this way, the existing points from 1 to 9 would become points 2 to 10. Namely, what was the reason for the amendment in the list of circumstances under which a person cannot be placed as a bankruptcy manager, apparently that the promoter forgot that it could not be a person who was already employed in a bankruptcy debtor, which in itself would be inadmissible. If this amendment had not been adopted, then there would have been no interference on the legal side, so that the person employed in it would be appointed as the bankruptcy manager. Therefore, it would be much better and smarter if we were to discuss here today a law that would deal with the resuscitation of production, unfortunately, of failed Serbian enterprises, not to pass laws that would be faster and more effective in putting a lock on a large number of state and social firms, which apparently under such irresponsible authority, are becoming more difficult and more difficult to survive on the market. Finally, I would like to express my regret that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who was announced for today's session, would it be logical to ask him all the questions – is he also designated as the bankruptcy manager of the entire Serbian economy?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33183	Two and a half minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time? Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33184	Kola Krasic submitted an amendment and asked for the words to be deleted in Article 21(1) – or which make it unworthy to do the business of the bankruptcy manager. For the sake of the public, I must read the provisions of Article 21, where he says - a person who, he says, is in custody during the duration of the detention or against whom a criminal procedure has been committed under official duty. A person who has been convicted of acts for which the sentence has been threatened for over five years, and in the end, in these cumulative lists says – or which makes him unworthy of performing the business of a bankruptcy manager. What does it mean to be worthy or unworthy? My colleague Antic, you have written these provisions of this bill. I'd like you to tell me, where is this receipt of dignity and unworthyness? What is the state authority that will issue you with a certificate and how will you assess it, based on documents provided by bankruptcy managers, its dignity or its unworthyness? In the light of this proposal for a law, i.e. this amendment, the amendment is said to be not accepted, given that it is a matter of dignity for performing tasks for certain professions, such as the profession of a bankruptcy manager, especially given that he is obliged to act in the interest of bankruptcy and other creditors who will not choose him most often. In order to carry out these tasks, it is necessary that these tasks can be performed by that person who is worthy of such functions. Finally, it is not unknown in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, as it is known by the current Law on Lawyerry with a very similar text of standards. Comrade Andric, I'd like you to come by, since there is no minister. You'd do well to give an explanation. This is very funny. This will create abuse in practice. Whoever decides will simply turn down those whom he will and says: "You are not worthy, you cannot be a bankrupt manager." It's abuse of rights, just so you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33185	Two minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic to Article 221. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 231 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 231 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33186	In Article 23, we asked that Article 6 be deleted. I will remind you that Section 6 states that the solutions set out in paragraphs 1 and 5 are final and can be fought against by an administrative dispute. In what situations can an administrative dispute be conducted? It may be managed if the conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 5 of this Article are met. I will only remind you that Article 1 refers to the issuing of a licence for the conduct of the business of a bankruptcy manager and says that the licence is issued by an authorised organisation, with its decision on the issue of a licence. Article 5 refers to the fact that, in the event that the conditions for the issuing of the licences set out in this Article are not met, the authorised organisation shall adopt a resolution on the refusal of the licence application. Finality of the solution, with the possibility of managing the administrative dispute, provided for in Article 23(6). The bill can lead to certain side effects. Unnecessarily affected by the delay in proceedings. In terms of bankruptcy, you predict a 45-day deadline with a reason for the speed and efficiency of the bankruptcy process, and here because of the lack of confidence in the final decision of the authorised licensing organisation, you allow the management of the administrative dispute. If an authorised organisation finds that the conditions for issuing a licence are not met and supports obvious, clear and reasoned evidence, the management of a administrative dispute could only slow down the procedure further, which is unlikely to be an intensities of the legislator. There could have been certain corrections here, irregularities within a short period of time, rather than the conduct of a administrative dispute. But it seems more important here, as they say – why simply, if it can be complicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33187	From the time of the parliamentary group used 35 seconds. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33188	Article 23 and this amendment, which I have submitted, refers to the position of the last, ninth, who says - that the minister is closer to prescribing the programme and the way in which the expert exam is passed. Otherwise, Article 23 speaks entirely of a licence to carry out the business of a bankruptcy manager. Of course, the amendment was not accepted, yet the government said it was not accepted for reasons that powers to adopt sublegal acts could be passed by law by a competent minister. It says – what has been done by the applicable Law on bankruptcy proceedings. It is as if the current Law on the bankruptcy procedure of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so it can be the basis. Besides, if this law was good, it wouldn't have been changed with this many members. I again draw attention to Article 136(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies by a certain law and, of course, it cannot be a minister as an elder of the body. This position of Article 23, says the minister is closer to prescribing the programme and how to pass the expert exam, as well as how to issue and restore licenses. I have here a manual to fill out the exams and a test to pass the exams for the bankruptcy manager, for licensing, and it's by the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. Now I wonder, and if Minister Dinkic were here, he would know the answer, Mrs. Minister probably doesn't know, is this test given by the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers contrary to this law, and as a lawyer I see it is? Why does Mladjan Dinkic interfere where he doesn't belong? Just a few examples from this test I'm going to read, and the rest when we talk about bankruptcy managers, just to show the public how pointless these issues are and how meaningless they mean nothing. Which means which party someone belongs to, or representatives of the regime's parties are exclusively bankruptcy managers. We know this well, it is a public secret in Serbia and how much bankruptcy managers earn. You have just heard information from Mr. Todorovic, 334 million dinars for a year for bankruptcy managers for four banks that have been unwarrantedly placed under bankruptcy. The bankruptcy manager is certainly the most profitable interest in Serbia. It is known that every city has a few god-given days that can do that job, and in order to do it, they have been formally tested. Now you'll only hear a few questions that are, like, from jokes -- whether water can be transferred from place to place in the grid. For example, the question: What court is competent to conduct bankruptcy proceedings? Then you have the answer: municipal, county, trade, higher trade. Previously, the test is said to be filled exclusively with a chemical pen, not to stick to a mobile phone, a computer, or anything like that. First, what does the knowledge of the bankruptcy administrator have to do with the court's jurisdiction to conduct bankruptcy proceedings? That's the first question. Is there anyone who passed the law school who doesn't know that everything about bankruptcy can only be conducted in front of a trade court. Or, for example, the question: What is the composition of the bankruptcy council? What does this have to do with a bankruptcy manager? He will apply, and the composition of the bankruptcy council, it is regulated by some regulations. Imagine, a citizen who presses any private suit cannot file it if he does not know in what composition a larger court will decide on the case. This is really God's saving. Or, question: The decision to launch the bankruptcy does not contain: 1) the existence of a bankruptcy reason, 2) the name, last name and seat of the bankruptcy court, (3) the deadline for the application, (4) the name, last name and seat of the creditor. What difference does it make if the bankruptcy manager knows this or doesn't know? This must be known by the court, and when the court receives a request for bankruptcy proceedings, if it is not possible to comply with the regulation, then the court will warn the bankruptcy administrator, give him a certain time limit and tell him in what way he will make the correction. Or, the pearl question: a foreign representative can address a trade court, and this is a 2008 test, 1) via the Ministry of Justice, 2) via the Ministry of Business, 3) via the State Department of Foreign Affairs, 4) directly. I think all these young people are so intelligent that they circled this under 3) through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State, which, besides other DOS, was destroyed by Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33189	Four minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33190	Article 24(3) We've predicted that Article 3 of the bill should be deleted. Article 3 states that a person who does not fulfil the conditions laid down in point 2 of Article 2 cannot be issued a new licence either. Article 2(3) states that a person who does not fulfil the conditions laid down in point 2 of this Article, i.e. who does not provide evidence that, in the last two years, he has performed the operations of a bankruptcy manager or other bankruptcy-related professional affairs, shall be renewed to such a person, at the request of a bankruptcy manager, a licence to be submitted to an authorised organisation. We think this should be deleted and we said the amendment proposed erasure, because there is no legal basis in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, many of the provisions of this bill do not have a legal basis in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, but the government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason that this position introduces the obligation to attend expert meetings, i.e. education and training as a condition for the renewal of the licence to those persons who during the importance of the licence have failed to perform the duties of the bankruptcy manager, so their expertise, ability and work cannot be assessed through supervision, which strengthens the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Imagine, "the profession of a bankruptcy manager", this is really genius, and gives chances to those who for any reason were not able to perform these tasks during the relevant period, that still the license to renew with an explanation that through attending courses they kept their knowledge and further improved them, which is one of the basic conditions for the renewal of the licence. Reward question: Is this a condition that someone may be re-elected as a licensed manager or this brilliant question - could a foreign representative address a trade court through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State that unfortunately does not exist long ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33191	Forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33192	We predicted that Article 24 paragraph 7 would be deleted. Article 7 states that the solutions set out in Article 6 are final and against them can be conducted administrative dispute, therefore, in the event that a person who does not fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, and I will remind you that paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, say that the person has not done the business of a bankruptcy administrator in a secure manner, in accordance with the standards and code of ethics or in another case, did not provide evidence that he has performed the operations of a bankruptcy administrator for the past two years. Therefore, in such cases an authorised organisation may make a solution to the refusal of licence renewal requirements, i.e. a decision on the withdrawal of the licence, on the basis of which it is deleted by the creditor's alternator. So, if he takes his license, it's deleted from the bankruptcy director's directory. The administrative dispute that would be conducted in these cases could only create a kind of confusion in this area, especially in the already started bankruptcy proceedings. The entry of new bankruptcy managers into the bankruptcy process, so the return of the old bankruptcy manager after the end of the administrative dispute in the same administrative procedure would only make it more difficult to make it more difficult for the already complicated bankruptcy proceedings. The security of the conduct of the business of bankruptcy managers, in accordance with standards and in accordance with the code of truth, may be discussed because it is subject to someone’s assessment. However, if this one has not submitted documentation that he has been dealing with the business of a bankruptcy manager for the past two years, what is there to conduct the administrative dispute? However, there are complications here, as well as in many places. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33193	Thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33194	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, as soon as something gets caught by Mladjan Dinkic, it has to be wrong, it's drying, it's getting carried away, it's getting worse. Was the bankruptcy law supposed to be amended? Of course it is. Is it a long process for us to get out of bankruptcy? Of course it is. We expected in the bill, before we could and had the chance to read it, that some good solutions would be given to overcome these problems. However, it has nothing to do with it. How much of the MPs of the G17 plus are interested in listening and following this issue, it shows that order where there are none. Mrs. Matic, when he was head of your party, they were all there. When you are, there is no one. Well done, Vice President of the Assembly, there he is, at least he is brave and encouraging to you. But let's talk a little bit about the amendment the SRS submitted to article 24 of this bill. In the part of this law, Article 24 speaks of bankruptcy authorities, and there is a bankruptcy judge, bankruptcy manager, a trustee's assembly and a trustee's board. The Assembly and the Committee of Trustees are most often saddened and bereaved, which should come to some of the funds based on a wide variety of claims from the creditor, but the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy administrator are very important two linkages and their security and their expertise depends on how and how this process will be completed. We intend to fix this law as far as possible, and Article 24 regulates the renewal and withdrawal of the license. This article has its 9th position in which we intervened by proposing that it be deleted. In order to be clear what this is about, I need to read Section 9. It's a bill of law. A bankruptcy administrator who has been denied a licence or whose licence renewal request has been denied for the reasons prescribed in paragraph 4 of this Act, and is rejected for the reason that the bankruptcy manager in the case of controls or is already found out in some way, has been unwittingly doing his job to issue a new licence within five years of the date of finalisation of the withdrawal of the licence, i.e. the decision to reject the renewal request. He could've done the job unconsciously, he could've been unprofessional, he could've done whatever he wanted. When five years are up, he could even be convicted, when five years are up, he can restore his license again and can re-harve, most often by social property of Serbia. We do not claim that among bankruptcy managers there are no extremely professional, honest, smart and good people. Whether there are fewer or more, we have no idea. We generally raise our voice against those who are unprofessionally and unconsciously and unfairly doing their job. It is enough to mention the bankruptcy director of Moldovan, whom counterpart Petar Jojic mentioned very often here and who is the general public, especially the bankruptcy managers and the bankruptcy judges, known and then it is clear, but when we say - it is not necessary, this one is not worthy to restore his license, then the government says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why a temporary ban on the exercise of activity through the denial of licensing is a necessary safeguard for the elimination of bankruptcy managers who exercise their duty unlawfully. We only suggest that those who carry out their duty illegally may never do so again. What makes the profession more professional? We persist here to the end, and the government is clouding that we have no idea what she's saying. The reasons for the proposed amendment do not state the reasons which indicate the basis and justification of the solution set out in the text of the amendment. This prevents the possibility of abuses observed in practice. The government seemed to have submitted an amendment instead of an SRS. We have seen abuses in practice, and very often the bankruptcy managers are given the opportunity to decide on a very high value, on a large property, and we just want to protect that property from unconscious managers. Mrs. Matic, did I convince you to accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33195	Four minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33196	Article 25 speaks about the directory of bankruptcy managers and the position 4, whose removal I have proposed, says - the directory of active bankruptcy managers cannot be entered in a person who is in a working relationship unless employed by entrepreneurs or a partner, or a commanding society. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I must inform you that this is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that this is a violation of the fundamental human rights provided for by our Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The working relationship is unique and has the same legal character, regardless of whether it is based in state bodies, in economy, in entrepreneurs or in any other institution. It's just amazing that it occurred to you to install this attitude into article 25. Comrade Novakovic, you have to agree with this as a lawyer. When you read the explanation of why this amendment was not accepted, you were worried about living in a state where there is no legal order at all. It is true that Serbia is unfortunately far from the rule of law, but we do have some legal order, but this argument confirms that we do not have it, because the amendment does not accept it because the bill provides that the bankruptcy administrator performs his duties as an entrepreneur or as a member of a company, or a complement of the command society, allowing the profession of the bankruptcy administrator to be given adequate legal status. How can the law on bankruptcy determine legal status in terms of profession, as was the case in that recent amendment? You further say - given the specificity of the bankruptcy procedure and the need for full commitment of the bankruptcy manager to the cases assigned to him, there is no need for full commitment of the case both to judges and to employees of the state administration and to prosecutors and to people employed by other agencies, in state authorities. Whoever is in charge of a case at work, I guess he is expected to be fully committed to solving the case, as an employee of a municipal administration is obliged to be fully committed to the subject where the building permit is to be issued. I don't see why it's otherwise necessary to be a completely dedicated bankruptcy manager to solving his case. It says - the possibility is excluded, because of the complete commitment, the possibility of a bankruptcy manager being in a working relationship is excluded, unless the working relationship was based on entrepreneurs or in a company that deals with bankruptcy proceedings, which is totally logical, etc. I haven't seen such black in white in a long time. Now, of course, this brings us all back to the story of Stephen Moldovan, of these four, of these bankruptcy managers, is there one, is there more of them. We expect Mr Dragan Todorovic to receive an answer to the question he asked in his earlier debate - how many bankruptcy managers who have been bankrupt over the only four state banks for 334 million a year, which you have completely illegally placed in bankruptcy? What's the point here? It is a public secret in every city in Serbia that the bankruptcy managers of the party's G17 plus and that it is one caste that takes big money and runs bankruptcy procedures, as Mladjan Dinkic said here the other day, when in the principle debate he said, that this existing law is so bad, that bankruptcy procedures are so bad, that it has to change urgently. But, of course, he did not say what would happen, what would happen to those bankruptcy managers, who, according to Dinkic, have mishandled bankruptcy procedures and what would happen to all those people who have lost their jobs, who today are among those 700 thousand, who are below the existential limit, below the normal life line, and there are, unfortunately, many more. Is someone going to make up for them because they were in companies that were destroyed because of bankruptcy? Because of the bankruptcy, I repeat again, as Dinkic said, because it was a bad bankruptcy law and because these bankruptcy managers mismanaged their business, and I repeat, therefore, what the whole Serbia is saying, wherever you go, wherever you go, whatever bankruptcy it is, they say - the bankruptcy is being taken by those from G17 plus. There's already a joke in Serbia, I assume you've noticed one cute commercial on television for a margarine, of course, I don't want to mention his name, because I have no right to advertise anything from here, they say, there's a joke in Serbia what is a G17 Plus party? They say margarine. Why? He's getting mixed up in everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33197	Four minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33198	Article 26 speaks of professional supervision. We've asked that an authorised organisation in the professional surveillance process can give certain measures to bankruptcy managers. Among others, it's an authorized organization that can extract a warning, then a public notice, then a fine, then a withdrawal of a license. The only normal and only thing that would be applicable is to impose a fine or withdraw a license, or it would be best for both of us, because if someone didn't do this job well, then of course they have to pay the fine and they have to take away his license. But no, there's a possibility of public warning here. Of course we asked for it to be erased, because by the very nature of it, the public notice has no effect on any sanctions, and I guess there should be a sanction, if this very responsible job doesn't work properly, it doesn't work in accordance with the law, and yet, God forbid, it abuses. We had cases, you know, that the officials were getting public notices because they were in conflict of interest and we don't see anyone shaking because of it, but they were still in conflict of interest, but they were still falling into conflict of interest, so they took some other functions, etc. So public notice is really something that's equal to a child's game. We still think it is necessary to delete it, although you from the government, Mrs Matic, say the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the goal of passing this law. I suppose the aim of this law is to operate bankruptcy proceedings in accordance with the law, to work in the best faith, in the best interest of all those employed in these companies over which bankruptcy is carried out. I don’t see what that goal would be otherwise, that is, what is the goal that is to be achieved by making someone who is doing a bad job public notice. This isn't just any job. A poor bankruptcy procedure implies that many people will lose their jobs, that many companies will be left without property, that many creditors may have to go bankrupt themselves because they will not charge out of bankruptcy. So, this is too serious, too wide for someone to just get a public notice, to tell them -- but never again destroying any new business society, never stealing that kind of money, but here, we'll give you another chance, you're being publicly warned. We mentioned you here in public and Bojan Krishte, we warned him here publicly and Mladjan Dinkic, and about breaking into the People's Bank with long weapons, with a sock on his head, we warned him about the National Savings Bank, we warned him about a lot of things he did. Did we have an effect? Of course, we didn't. Until the D.A. sits down, he folds his tab and does his job, frees public warnings to people who are without morals, because if they hadn't gotten into a situation where they had to be told neither public nor secret warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33199	One minute and 55 seconds. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment concerns Article 26, which in this draft bankruptcy law regulates an area concerning professional supervision, i.e. the measures authorised by the organisation in the professional supervision procedure, and you could already hear in the previous presentation of a colleague of the Verica Radeta on how absurd these measures are in this way, whether it is a warning or a public warning. It is also interesting to note that this argument came from the legislator, therefore, that the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the objective of adopting this law, because the introduction of several types of sanctions and the imposition of appropriate sanctions in relation to the severity of the failure is made possible by sanctioning and the slightest failures in the exercise of the duties of the bankruptcy administrator, which contributes to the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. It seems to me that this very profession of a bankruptcy manager and one of the most significant problems in this whole thing. For example, it only works, I'm going to provide some of the data concerning the number of bankruptcy managers in the surrounding countries. For example, there are 108 bankruptcy managers in Slovenia, Croatia 4,000 bankruptcy proceedings and 486 bankruptcy managers, in BiH over 500 bankruptcy proceedings and 194 bankruptcy managers, in Macedonia there are some 3.467 bankruptcy proceedings and 202 bankruptcy managers. What is evident is that the problems in this area have a lot, and in particular the 'thanks' for it are borne precisely by the bankruptcy managers and what has been regulated by the law so far, which is why what has already happened to colleagues and talked about, examples of long-term bankruptcy in Serbia, and the cases are shiny. Perhaps in all of this, we should look for a link to the fact that bankruptcy managers are first and foremost well paid for the job and, of course, they are not in a hurry. An example of the former economic giant "Beka", which went to the era in 2003 and cannot come out until the property ownership issue in Croatia and Slovenia is resolved, or until all disputes are over, is perhaps one of the exact examples of the overall situation in this area. What is the problem, that even the adoption of these new bankruptcy rules will not speed up the process, because, of course, they only apply to new ones and that practically means that the Beka case, as well as many other companies, will still be in the fog, or the solution will not be seen, at least for some reasonable time. Of course, the workers, the employees, suffer the most in all of that. There's a lot of examples. This time I'll just mention the "Belgrade" shoe industry and the dispute that's under way. Of course, these days we have also heard about the problem in Zorka in Šapac, Janko Lisjak, and this is to add only to the "Belgrade" shoe industry, where since 2003, although there has been a contract concluded between the mentioned company and employees, and there are a few dozen of them, therefore, not respect certain legal provisions regarding first of all and the payment of back-up and consequences which are merely the repercussion of what the Serbian economy has been led to in most cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33201	Two minutes and from the time of the parliamentary group. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33202	The bankruptcy is complex, difficult, very often and sad matter and problems, but approach as if it's voluntary, as if it's not taken seriously. Let me tell you, Mrs. Matic, it doesn't fit with your character this, you'll be remembered as the person who managed to organise the first session of the electronic government and that's something that's good. There's no bankruptcy law with you. When it comes to bankruptcy, it means an attempt to rebuild is being torn down in some way. We have two options here, to come to bankruptcy or to reorganize. But that's what you're going to do, and it's not worth it. We wanted to be a little more specific than the bill promoter here predicted, so we're talking about professional supervision in Article 26. The bill, item 3, among other things, sanctions, the penalty measure, as you will, I speak to the public so that everyone understands, the warning, the public notice, the fine of withdrawal of the license, of course the meaning has a fine and the withdrawal of the license, there's a public warning somewhere, but there's a great deal of value here. When we were just explaining the amendment to Article 24 of the Law, and when we said no more returning those who, in an unprofessional or in any other way, tarnished that profession, did not allow the same persons to deal with it again, we had the intention to act preventively. You know, if those who are bankrupt managers, who are preparing to become such, if they know that there is a possibility of losing their license and that they will be denied a great opportunity to earn, they are usually well rewarded, then they will take more care of it. And maybe once they'll sacrifice a five-year-old break or five-year-olds, they'll get a big, enormous fortune based on one or two cases. You know about how it ends. We suggest that, in addition to fines, the amount is defined. I'm not sure colleagues that this is the happiest solution. We've suggested a hundred thousand to a million dinars. Maybe it could have been more or less, but it just can't stay with a fine. Now, when the government states the reasons why it does not want to accept this amendment, it says - so it will be regulated by a special law, fines, but first, it must be known that there is a fine. The special law may regulate all those sanctions and all the measures. This Article 26 was absolutely unnecessary and very often a major expert on the G 17 Plus party is linked. I don't personally think of Mr. Novakovic, the very job of Mrs. Matic, having any bearing on it, but when you have good personnel, when the bankruptcy managers are mostly cases, of course it's not always like that, related to the party G 17 plus, why don't you send those very professional staff to “Viscoz”, to “Krusik”, “Milan Blagojevic”, to “First Partizan”, I can't say “Ravanica”, because Srdjan Milivojevic will stand up and tell me not to touch Ravanica, let's not send there, there is a good standing, business. Why don't you send Bojan Krishti? Why didn't you send him to Viskoza, so he's staying there, so let's take off all the hats so we can say you really have experts in Serbia's lottery, at Nicole Tesla Airport, now there's one who thinks and calls himself a political elite, sitting in two seats, I won't say which, public enterprise, losses are covered. It's easy, it can lead anyone. Let's get these professional staff, the ones we say are our best, that these parties have the best personnel, let's send them where it's a little harder, so Covic doesn't go anywhere where it's hard, to send some others.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33203	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33204	This is where we predicted that Article 26 of Section 3 would be deleted. Article 26 regulates the issue of professional supervision of the work of the bankruptcy manager. Professional surveillance should exist. There should be an institution or organisation to control the work and business of bankruptcy managers. This is done by an authorised organisation and, in accordance with Article 26, it may impose certain measures, as we have heard, such as public notice, fine and withdrawal of the licence. You know, this reminder is a public reminder that reminds the most of old times “the honorable word of Titus. ” It used to be, Madam Minister, I suppose you don't remember that time, but here sits the heads that remember this very well, and the time of another Tito, who certainly wouldn't have looked kindly at the Resistance or any of the things, but good. The measures expressed in the solution are said in the view of Article 26(3), which is finally. Is the organization, which is authorized to supervise the work of bankruptcy managers, without sin? It shall be granted the discretionary right to decide what measure it will apply in a specific case. Whether it's Tito's pioneering word or warning, or it's going to be one of the two more difficult, drastic measures, fines, or withdrawal of a license, that's a matter decided by an authorized organization. Can subjective sightings occur here, and hence, making an incorrect decision by an authorized organization? Can even the possibility of abuse by an authorized organization occur? I'm sure he can. It is the fact that the protection of the debtor and the bankruptcy of the bankruptcy is compromised if the unwitting bankruptcy manager continues to continue to take harmful actions in the course of the bankruptcy process, however, what if this procedure unwarrantedly extends and even more damaging consequences resulting from bankruptcy and bankruptcy. The finality of the solution is the automatic exclusion of the bankruptcy manager with the possibility of a solution and the automatic exclusion of the bankruptcy manager, with the possibility that maybe after the administrative dispute and return to the same case. So, go back to that case in bankruptcy, and the consequences after that can be even bigger and more devastating. That's why I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33205	The minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33206	Article 26(6) of the word ‘remembrances, public warnings’ shall be deleted. The amendment proposes erasing the proposed measure, since it is very few sanctioning effects in character and will not achieve the purpose of punishment. As for disputed bankruptcy in Serbia, they were introduced to sell large companies with valuable assets cheaply and to be seized by resellers, tycoons and others. A commission or a caucus would be taken by members of the bankruptcy mafia. It is widely known that Belgrade Robing Houses have been sold, Inex in bankruptcy, most of the assets sold, Jugoexport in bankruptcy, also part of the assets sold, Beko in bankruptcy, and part of the property was sold, the C Market was sold, the construction company "Rad" in bankruptcy was also sold, part of the property was sold, "Bim Slavija" in bankruptcy, part of the property was also sold. The state is damaged by 50m euros. The indictment has hundreds of pages. The state doesn't react, it lets this company, these companies that used to rely, fail and be bankrupt and eventually sold out. Also mentioned was the Leader just before. I'll just say a sentence or two. First of all, the DS has been accused of sharing oil and sugar with voters on Vozdovac, and the party that does so has sued them, but it has only gone one step further. The mentioned part includes home appliances, mobile phones, and we even saw on TV that they shared construction material for a few private houses. How and how to buy the cheek exactly they worked, along with the "yellows" on Vozdovac and working all these months.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33207	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33208	I have submitted an amendment to Article 26 of Section 7 and requested that this article be deleted. Namely, it is a formulation, and in this position, where the proposer says – an administrative dispute may be conducted against the solution set out in Article 3. Article 3 refers to measures imposed against a creditor by an authorised organisation when certain sanctions, i.e. public notice, fines and withdrawal of a licence may be imposed. It is a problematic provision of attitude 3 which does not allow appeal to a first-degree solution. That's why we asked to delete it. It is a constitutional obligation and the possibility of anyone who has been denied a certain right to appeal in a certain procedure. Namely, Article 36(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that everyone has the right to appeal or other remedy against a decision to decide on this right, obligation or law-based interest. This isn't the only provision. It is about several members in this bill of law who have been denied the right to appeal. Comrade Andric, it is clear that this is an anti-constitutional provision and it would be appropriate for you to accept this amendment. When I suggested erasing the 7th position in this article, I thought too much of an emergency remedy, i.e. administrative dispute. Why mention him here? An emergency remedy is not appropriate to mention here. We have the right to a constitutional suit, so you didn't state it as an emergency remedy. It is inappropriate in law to talk about extraordinary remedies. On the other hand, you have not enabled what is under the Constitution of obligations. In attitude three, you said the solution was first degree at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33209	It's been used 10 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33210	We have submitted an amendment to Article 27 which speaks of the possibility of a bankruptcy manager to raise loans and loans, to be in debt, and we think that this provision is contrary to the basic purpose for which this law exists, because that a creditor can take credit or loan without security or, with the security of property that makes up the bankruptcy mass, is simply not allowed, because this calls into question the possibility of creditors, decisive or any other, to make their claims available to the maximum extent possible, which is the basic reason for the existence of this law. I really didn't want to ask you for a replica. To say that sharing a poor person with nowhere to live is not the same as buying votes. So when someone gives, it's important whether they give theirs or take state or others to give to someone. It's important for which reason he gives. We all need to be aware that there is one up there who looks and measures the behavior of all of us, so that justifying the DS by attacking the SNS is simply not appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33211	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33212	This 32nd member of the draft bankruptcy law refers to the resolution of the bankruptcy manager. We have proposed an amendment, an SRS parliamentary group, by adding in point 1 of point 2 of this proposal of the law, that a bankruptcy judge under official duty resolves a bankruptcy manager who has been removed from the directory of bankruptcy managers, as well as in other cases prescribed by this law and amendment, we have tried to carry out one legal and technical correction, which, in our opinion, defines the obligations of the bankruptcy administrator more clearly and fully, by adding to this law – and to other regulations. Because it is obvious from the discussion of all MPs that such a bill of bankruptcy is quite flawed and that in principle no fundamental quality shifts will bring about compared to what we have so far. Experience shows that it wasn't right. Otherwise, this area of resolution is practically due only to what is happening in the election of bankruptcy managers, and currently there are several hundred bankruptcy managers in Serbia. One of the crucial reasons was that several people were constantly getting jobs, and that this bill was once again a bad sign of the fact that this time the proposer had defined that a computer selection of directors was random, and that there was a possibility that, if it were a high-value procedure or so on. a specific case, the bankruptcy judge shall make a direct choice with reasons. Of course, what we don't suspect will happen is that one bankruptcy judge is likely to choose the same bankruptcy manager more than once. It is clear that something will not be right, and that control will be carried out by the High Court of Commerce, because the bankruptcy council will no longer exist, and in practice so far, it shows that in over 90% of cases only confirmed the decision of a bankruptcy judge, so the complaints went to the High Court of Commerce, which was buried with these complaints, so it was clear that in practice it was known to lead to the paralysis of the court. I believe that such a formulation of Article 32(2) would in principle do no harm to such a bill, but rather, we would be in a situation where, as I have already said, we would define more clearly and fully the obligations of the bankruptcy administrator in order to avoid any possible irregularities in their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-03-0.u33213	One minute and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This would end today. We'll continue the session tomorrow, Friday, December 4, 2009, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for the relatively correct but very good atmosphere.
