ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27433	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask the question of the Justice Minister, Mrs Malovic, and the problem is next. In the prison last week, on Wednesday, Bajram Sejdinovic, from Bujanovac, died. According to the Pristina-based Koha Ditore, which is also called for by Dragutin Vidosavljevic, a representative of the NGO for human rights from Leskovac, Sejdinovic was ill and was 13 times sought medical treatment, which he did not receive. Medical assistance was given to him too late, only after ten minutes of unconscious standing outside the prison infirmary door, when his death was already established. In the article Koha Ditore, based on the mentioned source, and also on the prisoner's statement, prison conditions are very bad, that Albanians are particularly treated, and that they are often exposed to physical attacks and other prisoners, and all this depends on political turmoil in the country. I will also remind the Citizens' Protector, early in the year, to initiate a procedure to determine the excessive use of force in the arrest of the so-called "Gnjilan Group". In the first day of this group's trial, we heard, I had the opportunity to hear the statements of the two or three, that the prison guards were physically harassed in prison! I demand that these allegations be examined and to establish the truthfulness, and then to see what measures are to be taken against all perpetrators of overruling official competences. Also, I ask, what will be more concrete about improving the conditions, both in the county prison and in Belgrade, that any judicial process would take place normally and that a possible indictment would be found in normal conditions, not with pressures and not with such acts – by overcoming official jurisdiction and violating basic human rights?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27434	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27435	I have more questions. The first question is, are protests banned in Belgrade, or are they banned only from people who love Serbia and workers who have nothing to eat? In fact, representatives of several NGOs protested 11 October in front of the Serbian president's building demanding that July 11th be declared the day of the Srebrenica genocide. The campaign, which took place since February of last year, was attended by representatives of the civil sector from Montenegro, BiH, as well as 13 international networks of women in black from Israel and Palestine. The co-ordinator of Women in Black, Stasa Zajevic, said she expects Serbian President Boris Tadic to meet the international obligation, respect the dignity of the victims in Srebrenica, to begin a more serious and determined battle with the impunity of violence and crime. So my question for the interior minister is – are protests and public gatherings in Belgrade forbidden or are only allowed "women in black" who speak of Srebrenica, although such a declaration has never passed through Parliament? The next question, which I ask you, is -- how are we preparing to visit the Russian president who, as you know, is right on the 60th anniversary of Belgrade's last release to come to our capital? We are all witnessing that there have been a lot of debates about returning their names to the streets of Belgrade, but we have succeeded, the representatives of this party government have managed to train with the Russians precisely the strictness, so the conclusion is that once the names of those streets will be returned, but perhaps with some other names. I'd like to know what foreign policy means on the agenda of this act of minimum goodwill, and why is it such a problem to return, say, General Ždan's street name Resavska, U.S. Marshal Tolbuhina, her name, etc., instead of being replaced by MacKenzie? The impression that we are not at peace is this – this is how this other Serbia would react, if in some scientificophanastic assumption Russia were to court, not America. Imagine, for example, that the bombing changed the name of George Washington Street or Roosevelt?- I'm sorry. I am convinced that on the eve of May's visit to Vice President Joseph Biden, these 'other Serbs', their fighters, 'naricals', would ask for the honor of a high-ranking guest to return their previous names. As Russian President Dmitri Medvedev comes, why would he do a minimum act of goodwill and return the real names to the streets? Of course, the first question is whether Dmitri Medvedev will ask questions that are much more significant and more difficult than the name of the street. I'm afraid there will be a lot of questions, including the issue of this assembly's decision on military neutrality. The next question I ask is also about the foreign minister and it is – what exactly happened to "butmir" and why did Dodik come to Belgrade? So, was it about trying to break Republika Srpska, about revising the Dayton Agreement, because that's what we and as far as we are concerned, since Serbia is the guarantor of the Dayton Agreement? It would not be bad to find out what the outcomes of these negotiations were and why the atmosphere was so painful, including that Dodik must come to Belgrade to simply agree his opinions with the opinion of our statesmen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27436	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first question is for the Minister of Economy and Regional Development and the Minister of Justice. Is it true that the bankruptcy manager, and I know that exactly, Agroziv has charged 250,000 euros for all to hear well, '250,000 euros', and at the end of the restructuring, another 500,000 euros should be charged?- I'm sorry. Well, what stories of savings, restrictions, reductions, when Serbia is obviously a mother and a stepmother! So, the man has so far charged 250,000 euros under the Department of Economy Regulations, and I mentioned the Ministry of Justice because it goes through the Trade Court in Panchev. Furthermore, the question, let's see how the "Agroziv" affair in the first place, for what reasons, motives and initiatives, has surfaced and four people have been in custody for a year and a half? Is the reason one of the tycoon in Serbia that was supposed to take over the animal and animal products market, processing, with the help of one company, from the former Yugoslav republic, behind which it is actually hiding, because 60% of the markets were held by an Agroziv state-owned company with these animal meat and meat processing products, and someone wanted to take over, with the help of two banks in which the same tycoon was one of the largest shareholders?- I'm sorry. The second question, again for the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. What's going on with the company Education? At the end of last year, a tender for the privatisation of "Prosveda" was launched, and then ministers Dinkic and Bradic took pictures and named the bookshop "Geca Kon" as a cultural monument. Then, during the tender, conditions of privatisation were changed, which is not allowed, due to cultural monuments. It's nice that it's a cultural monument, but what about employees in "Prosveta" who don't receive salaries for almost a year! The company has completely failed, the blockade is tens of millions of dinars, and the debt is several million euros. So, what will happen to “Prostration ”? When I mentioned the Privatisation Agency, she seemed to have become a crime agency! Here are two companies, speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, in the territory of Obrenovac Municipality. – The wood combination "Bora Markovic", which was once a symbol of the wood industry, had several hundred employees who became social cases. The man to whom the company was sold, via the Privatisation Agency, has been charged with organised crime and has been in custody for a long time. It is the same situation with various "First Iscre" plants from Baric. One of the customers of the Baric's First Iscre plant was sentenced to four years in prison. Now, these are the new owners of the privatized state, or social, companies, who don't meet any obligations under the contract! If they don't get caught - they become owners, if they get caught, they end up in Central Prison! So, is this a message about new privatisations and new investments in which victims are only workers of these companies whose owners become a variety of newly-compromised businessmen and mostly criminals?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27438	He has the word Mr. Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27439	Madam President, you have referred to the heads of Parliament's groups, MPs' clubs, a memo containing the Constitutional Affairs Committee's conclusion of 29 September 2009. I did not attend that meeting of the Constitutional Affairs Committee because I was at a second meeting, in Strasbourg, at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And it reads that this conclusion reads: "It is necessary for the National Assembly president to hold a meeting with MPs in the National Assembly in order to set out a list of priorities in the adoption of laws and obligations that the competent state authorities did not meet in the sense of Article 15. Constitutional law’. To remind us of what it is, the DSS Parliamentary Group asked you several months ago to call a session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee to be discussed – what obligations did the National Assembly fail to fulfil in the adoption of laws and harmonisation of laws with the Constitution of Serbia, which should be fulfilled? We've held two meetings ever since. One was two and a half months ago and now on September 29th, on which this conclusion was reached. What did you do in the meantime? This conclusion was delivered to us the other day, and the session was held on September 29th. I have not heard from you that you have even called a meeting of the heads of parliament to discuss setting a list of priorities, nor is this conclusion showing what criteria are. And I'll remind you that outside of article 15. There are constitutional obligations that the National Assembly has not carried out, as is one of those mentioned in this letter, which is the adoption of laws on the National Assembly. The second obligation, for example, is the adoption of a law on the transfer of powers to the AP Vojvodina, which you also did not bring, although you have a legitimate proposal of 30 MPs in this assembly waiting months to be put on the agenda. We are now in the regular session phase. This proposal does not need to be repeated formally. I need you to put it on the agenda. Your previous explanation that you are not doing so because there is no government opinion is humiliating for the National Assembly, because there is no deadline within which the Government should have that opinion yes, nor is there an obligation for the Government to give it. The explanation you gave at the time, that – the opinion of the Government is necessary, because it is a serious and important law, is in full contradiction with your behaviour in this House when it comes to the adoption of other rules tabled by smaller groups of MPs from the ruling coalition, such as the ban on anti-fascist assemblies, which also had no government opinion, which you gladly voted for, however, with certain changes. So, I don't see why such a humiliating explanation should be the reason why the law on the transfer of the authority of Vojvodina is not found on the agenda of the National Assembly in the autumn session. I ask you the most beautiful questions – when will you call this meeting? And that's not -- I'll call soon, but say date. Be brave, say today's date when and at what time the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups with this topic will be held. Otherwise, I don't come to the meetings of the heads of the parliamentary groups you call, because they are without agenda, telephoned and happening to them, in my previous experience, just listening to your wishes about what a session of the National Assembly should look like and nothing constructive is being agreed. When I am confident, on your part, that a meeting of the heads of Parliament will be convened in a normal way, written on the way, with an advanced agenda, with the aim of making a deal on it, I will come to that meeting. That is why I ask you – when will you call, with a agenda like this, the heads of the parliamentary groups, so that I may come to it on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group. The second question – when will you really put the laws that we have proposed as a parliamentary group together with New Serbia, and when will they be in regular procedure, at one of the regular meetings of the National Assembly? You can't avoid that obligation, it follows you according to the Rules of Procedure. If you avoid it, you directly violate both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27440	Thank you. We had a meeting of the heads of parliament, that is, I called on the heads of the parliamentary groups, informed them of the conclusion, and agreed that everyone within their parliamentary group should prepare for a meeting where we will discuss priorities. Meanwhile, as on several occasions so far, the Assembly has reminded the government and the restoring ministries of the constitutional obligations under Article 15, therefore, to comply with the laws with the constitution. What was the idea of a meeting you weren't on because of legitimate occupancy, of course, you were in another important place, was the idea of even making it more concrete for those resolution ministries and the government to appeal to speed up the process of compliance with the Constitution on a legislative basis and to single out those laws that MPs consider really need to be agreed on, and we know that the constitutional obligation to all be, and we know that it is physically impossible for the government to agree on the same day and at the same time interval. Therefore, it is now in the parliamentary groups, in line with the agreement that we had just before this meeting, that each one should bring its priority, and we will consider it, the heads of Parliament's groups, at a meeting that I will schedule as soon as I am informed that within the parliamentary groups it has been done. So, please engage within your parliamentary group as head of Parliament's group for the realization of the Constitutional Affairs Committee's conclusion. Now I'm telling you in public. As for the law on the powers of the Vojvodina and the public, you are aware that, in parallel to putting into the procedure of the bill that you delivered by the Government is very intensively working on identical matter and it is not at all controversial to put this law on the agenda, but I am afraid that it will be formal and that we will essentially discuss such a significant matter on the proposal. As you know, I propose the agenda, and the agenda is decided by the Assembly, immediately, before I draw up the agenda, I agree with the heads of the parliamentary groups on what they will really have and most of what will be on the agenda. In any case, the proposal for your law will come on the agenda, but given that the government is ending the proposal for this law and preparing it, I think it is two acts of which are certainly more comprehensive than the one that the government is doing, but of course I will respect the procedure and come to the agenda. I will give you a measure because of the often repeated findings and other MPs and me – shame on you! It's just not right. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27441	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you always give me a chance to ask a question that I think represents the essence of relations in Serbia. And you will say that I may be misreading you, but when you can, in all the media, misread me, misdemeanorly and maliciously, perhaps I could be here as an MP to afford myself some of the rights given to me by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have now told Mr Aligrudić that the bill tabled by one MP or a parliamentary group, the author of the proposal under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will be such that it will only be formal debates and that there will be no fundamental debates, please, or be careful what you say or read what you say, so that you do not repeat it, and that the fundamental debate will be exclusively on the proposal submitted by the Government. Now, that's the Assembly since you've been running it! Exceptions submitted by the Government and proposals submitted by other authorised representatives are never on the agenda. Well, you even take so much power to say -- that's not on the agenda because the government hasn't considered it or worse, because the government is preparing a proposal on this matter. Please equalize the proposings in this National Assembly. It may be a formal debate for you, none of you can attend that session, it may not be the agenda, but it is your duty, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to defend the dignity of the National Assembly. Not by warning us not to speak to you, you were ashamed, for this is our judgment. If anyone tells you, shame on you, it is his judgment on some of your actions. And, don't punish for the court, punish for the actions! So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, don't make this assembly a government facility, because it makes us so bad in Serbia. You have several draft laws that we have passed – they will never be on the agenda until the government regulates that matter. Well, I'm sorry, if someone wanted us not to have a division of power, well, the Assembly wouldn't have passed the laws, but the government would have passed the laws, as it is now laying down different regulations that have nothing to do with the law or says -- until we have a regulation, there's nothing to do, so they don't bring in a year or two, or we bring in a law here under which they're obliged to deliver a contract to us within a month on some borrowing, so you never let us know, or send us that contract to see. Please rise a little above the ruling coalition. If you want to be the government of the Republic of Serbia, take over a ministry. There are former and current socialists there, you can behave very nicely there. There's no authority here! You're here just like all of us. Here all the proposals are equal, valued by the date of arrival and must be on the agenda. It's a humiliation to us that you are now telling us that what the government is about to endure will be on the agenda and that only a fundamental debate will be held. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27442	Mr Nikolic, of course, that all the promoters and all the proposals have the exact same specific weight in accordance with the Constitution and the practice of this Parliament. I was only talking about the way we adopt the agenda, that is to say, I reminded myself of the way and the real possibilities for something to come essentially on the agenda, and it's not at all controversial. However, I fully understand your tendency to be my advisor, as a former radical, since you're talking about former Socialists. Let me express my belief that this is probably not in line with your deep ambitions, those that are deep inside you, and it is most likely that your continued need to evaluate this way my work has some deeper reasons. Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the recently called Kosovo Privatisation Agency has launched a privatisation process for the part of Inexa property in Brezovica. It's about the following facilities: "Brovnara small" and "Bravnar large", as well as "City cafe". The owners of this property are the 51% Public Business "Skialds of Serbia", and the owner of 49% of this capital is the "Fond Inex-Interrecsport" A.D. Belgrade. It is an attempt on another robbery of Serbian state property in Kosovo and Metohija. If you look at the prospectus published by the Kosovo Privatisation Agency, you will see that each of these facilities has been assessed, that its initial value has been estimated at 20,000 euros. The actual market value of these facilities is, of course, several times higher. It is obvious that it is an attempt to privatise something that is not theirs, which is part of the state property of the Republic of Serbia at a price that is truly scandalous and humiliating. What is the problem in this whole story is the fact that behind this attempt to privatise Serbian state property in Kosovo and Metohija stands a certain Aleksandar Janicijević, director of the "Inex Ski Centre" in Brezovica. Otherwise, it is a man who also serves as vice president of the municipality of Strpci, but not those of the Serb municipality of Strpci, but of the so-called Šptaral municipality of Strpci, and it is obvious that all of this is done in the interest of the so-called Kosovo Privatisation Agency, and of course in the interest of Eulex. My question on behalf of the SRS is this – what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to prevent this call of privatisation, in fact, to rob the state property of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija? And, finally, what will the owners of this capital, first of all, the Public Enterprise of the "Skialds of Serbia", which is under the patronage of Mladjan Dinkic and his Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, be taking action against Aleksandar Janicevic, a man who should, by definition, protect Serbian interests in Bezovica, and in fact work openly for the interest of Shipara, or the interest of Eulex? So -- what measures will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development take against this man who simultaneously performs his role in this Shiptar local self-government in the municipality of Strpca? Just to remind the representatives of the government, who are present here, that Bezovica is not only of tourist importance to the Republic of Serbia but also of exceptional strategic importance. I am taking this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to convey to you the message of the Serbs from the municipality of Strpci, that they are ready to, under the leadership of the president of the municipality of Strpci, the Serbian radical Zvonko Mihajlovic, the bodies defend this property and will not allow the robbery of Serbian state property in Kosovo and Metohija. It is property created for years by the Republic of Serbia and maintained, above all, by Serbs from the municipality of Strpci. So Serbs from the municipality of Strpci and SRS in Strpc, as well as Zvonko Mihajlovic, the president of the municipality of Strpci, will not allow this property to be sold, no matter what the so-called Kosovo privatisation agency said. And we call on you, gentlemen of the government, to take action with your friends from Eulex to stop this shameful privatisation process and to replace Aleksandar Janijevic, a man who openly violates the interests of the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija, especially Serbs from the municipality of Strpci. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27444	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Petar Janjic, head of the office of Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society and Snezana Obrenov-Ivanovic, deputy minister. I welcome them, and Mrs. Minister. We move to a joint single search of the 10-15th agenda: –Employment of Members of the Council of the Republic of Republic Services Agency, the RRA, the termination of the judicial duty, the member of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors of the Law Department and the Members of the Committee of the Serbian Parliament Do the Commissioner, the Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, the National MP of Bosko Ristic or the National MP Dragan Todorovic want a word? Yeah. ) Ms. Minister Jasna Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I present before you a proposal for a decision on the election of the Post Office Council, which should bring the postal sector into a state of regularity, i.e. respect for the law. The postal service law entered into force in March 2005 provided for the establishment of the Postage Services Agency as an independent regulatory body to issue licences and exercise control and control over the postal service market. Unfortunately, for more than four years, this market has been in an irregular state, resulting in a large number of lawsuits before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. We even have a lawsuit in front of a court in Strasbourg. Today, there are five names of people with great experience in the postal transport sector and who will take on the role of an independent regulator of this market, which has been experiencing major developments in the world in recent years, but also in us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27446	Thank you, Mrs. Matic. Do Mr. Ristic or Mr. Todorovic want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word, first of all of the reported ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, and today we have the common agenda points and I will look again at some points of the agenda that deserve attention to be mentioned at today's National Assembly meeting. First of all, I would like to say something about proposals to elect an election member of the First Chamber High Council of Attorneys and a proposal for an election member of the First Assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. I'm not going to deal with personal solutions when it comes to these proposed candidates, but I'm going to look back at the fact that the moment of their election is practically late. The point is that in the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, candidates were elected six months ago, practically, and I cannot accept that for such important bodies dealing with the choice of judicial officials, candidates from the ranks of lawyers are elected in October of the month, and we already know that there are candidates for their election at the High Court of Cassation. What does that mean for these people who are now elected here? In what way will they affect the choice of the country's most judicial functions? For what reasons have these people not been elected in time or since their choice at some point failed, why has it not been done two months ago, because it is known that in July the candidates for the holders of judicial functions have been completed? There's a form being implemented here to fill out these places and the question is, how are these people going to even participate in this election? I said I would not enter personal solutions, but I believe that the choice of candidates from Nis, for the High Council of the Judiciary, may be a precedent, because we already have one man from Nis who actively participates, who is a member of the Committee on Justice, who is in the High Council of the Judiciary, and therefore the question arises – why is there another candidate from Nis? Such behaviour creates a monopoly when it comes to selecting legal holders, and this is a bad message, so it should be deployed to even parts of Serbia, when at least lawyers are concerned. What I'm going to point out in particular is that I believe that the counseling that was in Vranjska Banja for the holders of judicial functions was made a precedent, because all the top state officials were at this counseling session, by the prime ministers and resolute ministers, Madam President, even you were there. Never before has the prime minister visited such a place, in my understanding, it is one of the means of pressure on the holders of judicial functions – to have a choice before them, because the prime minister appears as executive authority in a place that is narrowly professional, and so far, he has always been justice minister, Supreme Court president and competent. In addition, one third of those judges who were there are likely to no longer be the holders of judicial functions, as a large number of judges, about a thousand, will lose their jobs. This is the time that, since we will have a choice on December 1st, we will look again at and refer to some of the illogicalities regarding the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code and others, which are currently being implemented. I will say that the territory of the District Court in the King is reduced to 19 judges by the number of legal holders. I'm going to give an example through the King, and that's what's happening in the entire territory of Serbia. The district court that had 12 judges will remain with six judges. The municipal courts within the District Court in the Kingdom are the Municipal Court in Vrnjačka Banja and the Municipality Court in Raška, they will become judicial units, and the total number of legal holders in municipal courts from 35 to 27 will be reduced. If we add that the Trade Court, which now has 12 judges, will have only six judges after this re-election, the question arises – how will the country's justice system be more effective, how? But every day in the press, we see both the minister and his associates in charge suggest that the judiciary will be more effective? I'm asking, how is that possible when only in one area like this 19 judges are less?- I'm sorry. I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here today. I would also point out that at present, there is a catastrophic situation in every court when it comes to executive proceedings. I brought that up here eight or nine months ago when we discussed this subject and got some assurance that the minister was going to do something about the amendments to the Code. Practically, when it comes to the executive procedure, we have paradoxical situations for Serbian citizens to exercise their rights for three and four and five years, and when it comes to the executive procedure, there is an end. There's the end, all costs to the state, all taxes, citizens to meet, and then their rights cannot be realised. I'm afraid, when we have this much reduction, that the execution procedure in the courts will function even more disastrously. Practically, executive judges don't do their job because they're often unable to execute because of various assists, and that's where the whole story ends. It's been going on for years. In the annual deployment of judges cases go from one to the next, while the executive judge renews the procedure, it goes so in a circle, and it lasts for years. Practically, the situation is catastrophic in the judiciary, especially when it comes to executive proceedings. I would like to point out once again the dissatisfaction of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group that such important laws are, when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Law, and all that happened over the summer, which was brought into an emergency procedure. Believe that there are legal holders who didn't know at all that the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law would be changed. It was done quickly, without certain discussions, working groups, everything was absolutely done ad hoc, so people are completely confused. It is certain that the holders of the judicial functions are forced to remain silent, not to be advertised for all of this, because they are awaiting re-election, and many fear that they will lose their jobs, that they will not be elected. I will point to another paradox, which mentions Professor Momcilo Grubač's finding that the new Code of Criminal Procedure has come into force, but that its application has been delayed. It is the invention of a legislator who is anti-constitutional, who has adopted this code of law as an emergency. I want to make another disastrous solution here, I'm telling you, once again, that the judges were not prepared to pass these laws, and they are the ones who enforce the laws, for example, the situation that only the prosecutor, the defendant, and the defendant, are practically, alone, spared the prison sentence. It is an unacceptable solution, because on a proposal from the council, according to the judge, the president of the court imposes such penalties without being present at all during the debate. However, it is bad that in one year there are so many changes, above all, Serbia's citizens will be damaged, who will know when they can achieve their right, because judges and courts will not be more effective, but will be a worse situation. I also note that for certain procedures when it comes to reviewing, let's say, the territory of Raška, which is now a judicial unit, the citizens of Raška and the surrounding places or Vranjska Banja, will have to come to trials in the Kingdom, which requires great costs, and when they can't achieve any of their rights or it will be too expensive for them, I'm afraid (and once again note, that we will have a large number of crimes, because, unfortunately, citizens will be forced into certain situations, when they see this, with all this happening, when it comes to these laws that will be applied since 2010) to take justice into their own hands. I don't think the billmaker has thought enough about all these possible situations, but we'll see. Once again, I think there are so many bad solutions for a very sensitive branch such as the judiciary and the judiciary and that citizens will not be able to do so. I'm afraid we're going to make one mess in the judiciary, and that's certainly not in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27448	Thank you. The word has Miletic Mihajlovic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27449	Dear Presidents, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have several questions in this debate and certainly deserves attention to say on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a decision to elect the Council of the Republic Postage Services Agency. The postal service law was passed in 2005 and under that law, more specifically, on the basis of Article 65, the Republic Postage Services Agency was established, which has practically not yet performed its function, since it was not elected and established by the Council of the Republic Postage Services Agency, and given that it was not possible to say that this lack of agency in its function led to chaos on the postal service market, where postal operators operate without compliance with the provisions of the applicable law, with very big or harmful consequences for the state of the Republic of Serbia and for the public operator 'Post of Serbia'. Otherwise, the Agency is competent to adopt general conditions for the provision of postal services, on the basis of which operators also adopt their specific conditions. The Agency has a very important role, because it also deals with licensing and work authorisation, according to strictly defined conditions that it prescribes and all of this does not exist today. It should then monitor the implementation, i.e. the compliance by the operator of the conditions contained in the issued licences. Of course, the Agency also plays a significant role in regulating such relations that provide sound competition in this area, which is not at all available today. Finally, by forming the Agency and putting it into office, we would have had compliance with the standards of the international community in this area. The agency has legal personality status that gets registered in the register, but it is very important that we say at the moment when we talk about agencies, which is not very popular in Serbia today, because today it is often understood that these are budgetary authorities on the burden of citizens, that this agency is financed exclusively from its own incomes. So, of those fees prescribed and paid by operators and not to spend budget funds with their operations, it does, on the contrary, contribute to budgeting. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this selection of members of the Council of this agency, noting that it is members of the profession and who, in fact, and under the Law on Postal Services, can only be people who rule this matter and who are professional and who will certainly make their full contribution to the full function of this new body, or this agency, and which will make order in the postal service market. When it comes to a list of candidates for a member of the RRA Council, it is also necessary to do so, given that this Council achieves full legitimacy in the performance of its important function and in the regulation of all relations in this area. On the agenda, we also have a proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office, which is in some way a formal question, because it is actually a matter of harmonising the legal situation with the fact that the National Assembly's decision is declarative, given that the judicial function in this case ceases under the law, but the full importance comes from the Parliament's decision and it is good that we put it on the agenda. Then, we have a proposal to elect an election member of the first session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the line of attorneys and a proposal to elect an election member of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors, which is also a procedural issue. It should certainly be completed by these bodies, that they have full composition, because they face a significant task in the framework of judicial reform. The reform in the judiciary was really necessary, but I must say, it is a very large and difficult task. Maybe we didn't even make it halfway, by bringing legislation or a significant part of the legislation in this area, we didn't finish the job, because implementation just follows. There are very difficult tasks both in front of these bodies and in front of what is the path of reform. Of course, these problems are big and should go to meet and supplement the legislation in this area. We just had an objection to what was an execution, an executive procedure. There's a really difficult situation here, because we have been in practice running court proceedings for years and then, when it's decided and the time of execution comes, it's like there's never been a case in the first place. I think it's inadmissible to have in the judiciary a regulated course of certain procedures under the law, and that it can't end the way it should, fully and in favour of justice, I'd say, first of all. The SPS-JS will make its full contribution to what is the debate and what is the formation of these decisions, so that the competent authorities in their areas can normally function and make one contribution to the normal functioning of the system in the state of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27450	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group that it is scandalous that by who knows which time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a debate on the points of the agenda that are absolutely unrelated to each other. It would really be good for representatives of the ruling coalition to explain to us what is essentially the same materially in the proposal for a decision to elect the Council of the Republic Postage Service Agency, the List of candidates for a member of the RRA Council, then, the motion for a decision to suspend the judicial office, then, a proposal for an election member of the First Council of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order, a proposal to elect an election member of the First Assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors, a proposal for a decision to supplement a decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? So, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is already who knows which way, joins together in the discussion of grandmothers and frogs. This is another confirmation of the fact that the ruling coalition only cares about turning the National Assembly into a large factory that operates on the norm. Norm was appointed by someone outside the Republic of Serbia, and we are now all obliged to meet that standard. Whenever a meeting of the National Assembly is concluded, the government says, well, this assembly of the National Assembly has passed so many laws and made so many decisions. How many of these laws are applied in practice? What's their quality? To what extent are these laws really in the role of improving the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? No one's asking that, but the important thing is that we've passed 100, 200, 300 laws, that we've brought together something that's incompatible to finish the debate as soon as possible and to approach the vote. It turns out that the National Assembly is a voting machine, not for a reasoned debate, not for a face-to-face but for a vote – let's put out rather quickly and better what the people of the government have suggested, what some other authorised promoters have proposed, but without much debate. What reasoned debate, what fundamental debate, what quality debate can be held about the points of the agenda that mildly relate to one another?- I'm sorry. Since we are talking about some topics that are of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which are in the face of circumstances directly or indirectly as part of the agenda of this session, it would be good to say more about these topics. One of the topics that interests all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the issue of direct TV transmissions of all sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As is known, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, the opposition led by the DS, she claimed there is no democracy in Serbia without direct TV transmission. After that, a syntagma was insulted – that direct television transmissions are some democratic fluid, which cannot be questioned in any way. However, we are witnesses in 2009 that this is not exactly so, that it is one democratic fluid, but which can be questioned and which is in various ways questioned. It all began with the delayed transmissions of the National Assembly sessions in some small hours, when a small number of Serbian citizens could monitor these delayed transfers, because the Serbian Radio Television justified itself by allegedly taking over some of the obligations, which relate to the transfer, according to the rule of some sporting events, so that it was unable to fully monitor and transfer the sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The RTS College's decision to continue co-operation with the National Assembly and to transfer the meetings of the Serbian Assembly, but with the alleged respect for the programming and editorial independence of the Public Service and its previously assumed duties, is at least incorrect and is not quite in the spirit of these democratic flows that you boast. In a letter addressed, you know Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, therefore, the letter addressed to the National Assembly president, analyses the conclusions of the parliamentary Working Group on the issue of television transmissions from the National Assembly's session. The RTS College concluded that this is not the legal obligation of Radio Television and that it is only possible if the National Assembly pays half the alleged costs of one million euros. What do the facts say? Assembly transfers are the above-average programme on the second channel of RTS. The average daily attendance of the Second Programme is between 0.8 and 1.3, and the average ratings of congregation transfers are usually double, and unrarely congregation transfers have the most convincing view on the Second RTS programme, even higher than the top sports events. This just confirms that viewers and how they want to monitor congregation transfers and that, above all, it is a moral obligation of RTS, as a public service, to provide. RTS is a state capital company, and if it did not help the state, or the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, RTS would certainly be doing far greater losses than it is now doing. For example, in 2007 alone, the Serbian government wrote off the RTS commitments of nearly two billion dinars and allocated about 11m euros from the budget for the purchase of RTS technical equipment. If these facts are considered, there is only one possible conclusion, which is that RTS must ensure continued transfer of sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is unacceptable that what happened in the previous period happens, and it is related to these so-called delayed transfers. These delayed transfers greatly disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly, disrupting the dignity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not true that the meetings of the National Assembly are not being followed. And how they're being followed. This shows parameters and RTS itself. So, Serbian citizens and how interested is what is happening in the National Assembly. For the SRS, it is inadmissible to break the long tradition of transferring the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the ruling coalition is in the interest of keeping these transfers as low as possible, to delay transfers, and it would probably be the easiest thing for them to do if these transfers were not. The question now arises – why is it necessary for the ruling regime not to have these transfers and that Serbian citizens do not know what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? There's a lot of reasons for that. One reason is this: the government in Serbia has obviously begun preparing citizens of the Republic of Serbia for a decision to join Serbia's NATO pact. Today, small children in Serbia know that there are some parties in the Serbian government who openly advocate joining Serbia's NATO alliance. First of all, that's what I mean by SCI and G17 plus. It is also widely known that a good part of the DS, headed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, is seeking to join Serbia's NATO pact. You know that the largest number of Serbian citizens oppose it. That's one fact. You have decided to change that fact by serving citizens from day to day only the information that is important to you, in order to change that negative attitude towards NATO. We are, in fact, as a state and our army, already introduced into the lobby of the NATO Pact. Laws on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say that the government of Serbia, that the regime in Serbia and that it intends to include Serbia's military and its members in NATO operations that are happening today on various meridians of the world, particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan. You know that Serbia's largest number is against the NATO pact, but you have decided to change that attitude. It's a long-term project for you. There are various ministers in the means of public information, as well as various representatives of the ruling coalition, and then they explain to us -- well, what are you going to do, we can't do against the world's forces, that's the necessity, we can't join the EU if we don't join the NATO Pact, it'll be easier for us as a state if we join NATO operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, we'll have some privileges, as you say, benefite, we'll get some economic benefit from that co-operation with the NATO Pact, etc. The only place in Serbia where Serbian citizens can openly hear arguments as to why the NATO Pact should not be entered is the Serbian Parliament. There is no other place in Serbia to talk about it openly. SRS MPs are using every possible opportunity to warn Serbian citizens of the great danger that threatens them if one part of the government in Serbia is to join the NATO pact. What kind of citizens of Serbia have an interest in Serbia becoming part of NATO alliance? They have absolutely no interest. The Americans have an interest in Serbia being part of the NATO Pact, because they need cannon meat in Iraq and Afghanistan. Why would American soldiers cut off their heads, let them do it in Serbian, let them do it in Czech, Polish, Bulgarian soldiers. That's why they care about Serbia entering the NATO Pact. Is that our interest? Well, it's not. What do we have to do with what's going on in Afghanistan? The Americans created Al-Qaeda. The word Al-Qaeda in Arabic means 'base' in terms of 'data base' because the CIA had in its computers a database of all members of Al-Qaeda during the 1980s, when they created Al-Qaeda to fight Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Then it was appropriate for them to have members of Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan cut off heads, legs, arms, and bury them up to their heads in the sand, to give them all kinds of tantalum pains. At that time, for the Americans, members of al-Qaeda were Democrats, human rights fighters, for the freedom of the Afghans, were part of this vast alleged Western coalition against the Soviet Union. Now, don't lie to the devil, when that Al-Qaeda stood up against its masters today - now, let's pull soldiers from all over the world to defend American interests in Afghanistan. Well, the world's top drug dealers are Americans. They have an interest in being militaryly present in Afghanistan, not to defend the people of Afghanistan from the Taliban, from these extreme Islamists, as they say, but to have control over those fields where they are planted to drink. The Americans trade these opiates around the world, their services benefit enormously from it, and now it takes Serbian soldiers to defend such corrupt, immoral American interests in Afghanistan. You're saying that Serbia's economic interest in entering NATO is a pact and that our army is taking part in these so-called multinational operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Well, they're more expensive, gentlemen, these tin crates where our soldiers are coming, than all those billions of euros and dollars you're supposed to get for it. Well, there is no price for Serbian citizens to pay to have their sons, husbands, brothers from Iraq and Afghanistan returned to them in tin coffins! That's why you want there to be no transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- that the citizens of Serbia don't know what's coming for them. In conditions where the Serbian Army is not present in one part of state territory, in KIM, it is scandalous to say it is going anywhere. What is this state in which in one part of its territory its legitimate armed force is not present, and now we're going to send Serb soldiers to Iraq and Afghanistan or who knows where in the world to defend American interests? I guess we should first take all the measures that the Constitution tells us, which is Resolution 1244, which provides us with declarations and resolutions adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the Serb army and police first return to KIM. When a Serb soldier is also in Pristina, and in Gjilan, both in Strpc and in every other part of KIM territory, then it can be said that we will eventually send Serb soldiers, but exclusively to peacekeeping missions. To send Serbian soldiers on occupation missions, to put American interests to death in Iraq and Afghanistan, to what normal man in Serbia could such a thing come to mind? Unfortunately, one part of the government of Serbia and some ministers fell. They would like to take money from Americans and English, send Serbian children there to die in Iraq and Afghanistan, and Serbia reportedly will benefit from that. Now, in order not to talk about it in public, if Serbian citizens didn't know what a part of the Serbian government is up to, then let's cut the television broadcasts, they're very expensive, they're not looking at them, it's more important football, it's more important cricket, it's more important basketball, it just doesn't matter what's going on in the vaults of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! What other reason is there for you from the ruling coalition not to respond to direct television transmissions? Here comes a huge deception of Serbian citizens, which is the so-called rationalisation of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, reduction of the number of employees. Now, if you follow a few statements from our ministers, which is the rationalization of the state administration -- we're gonna fire coffee cooks, we're gonna fire the porters, we're gonna fire the drivers, we're gonna fire the dactylographs. They are the biggest problem in Serbia, when they are fired by the state administration in Serbia will be fully in line with European standards?- I'm sorry. So, what's the rationalization of the state administration? Where is it in some democratic world to talk about firing employees, and nobody's talking about reducing the number of ministers and reducing the number of ministries? What is this rationalization where the ministers will continue to be as many as they are, and you're supposed to fire people who work in the state administration for 10, 15 or 20,000 dinars a month? What kind of rationalization is that, what are those savings? Where's the morale? If something is rationalizing, then I guess we should start with the head. Let's cut the number of ministries. Why do we need so many ministries? Let's cut the number of ministers, let's cut the number of state secretaries. In certain ministries, for example, at Mladjan Dinkic, you have more than 20 state secretaries. I am really interested in what these people are doing, which is what they do, which is a description of their work, which is their contribution to repairing the situation in Serbia. No, you say the number of ministers must remain the same because it is so prescribed by the coalition agreement, it must remain the same number of ministries, don't give God some mother's son to be a minister in Serbia, and his mother gave birth to him to be a minister. No one lives in Serbia can be a minister, but he can. A crown would fall off that man's head if he weren't a minister. He's got to be a minister, now that some mother or some father is going to be out of a job in the state administration, and he's working for some pathetic monthly amount, that's none of your business. So you're preparing a law that will be directed directly against small, ordinary people who work in the state administration. Nothing else will change. The minister will be as many as there are, their secretary of state as there are. We now see that individual ministries in the Serbian government are announcing even new employment. There, above all, is thought of ministers from G17 plus – but we will fire people who are porters, cleaners, drivers, couriers, etc. So, when we fire them, then we'll solve all the problems in Serbia?- I'm sorry. You're making a big mistake, you're making a big con for the citizens of Serbia. In order not to talk about it, let's start with the practice of delayed television broadcasts. What you are prepared to do to Serbian citizens can only be heard here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That rationalization you came up with, gentlemen of the Serbian government, is nowhere in the world. If you want to reduce the number of civil servants, then start from yourself. No one can convince the SRS that at this time of the great crisis, at a time when the state obviously has difficulty in functioning, that Serbia needs 25 ministers. Since the time of Prince Michael, Madam Minister, since the 1960s, and until 1918, the Serbian government had seven or eight ministers, and they had no problem with Serbia being one of the most successful states in Europe. With seven ministers, we managed to free KIM, free southern Serbia, or Macedonia, and practically, we with seven ministers managed to create that great common state of Yugoslavia. You with 25 ministers are unable to achieve what it says in Resolution 1244 to return to Kosovo and Metohija Serbian soldiers and police officers, at least those thousands of soldiers from Resolution 1244, and you say – we need 25 ministers. For what? What are these people doing? What's their contribution? There's no contribution. They're spending huge budgets and then the Vlachs don't know each other, so we can meet the IMF's god-awful demands, get some more credit to pay back our grandkids, not you, then we'll fire people who still work for some lousy salaries in the state administration. Since these decisions are also on the agenda for judges, i.e. the High Council of the Judiciary, you also prepare them in the judiciary. Since early next year, a large number of judges in Serbia will no longer be. And that's the key to your reforms. You'll do what... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27452	Sorry, sorry, it's been 20 minutes. Do you want to maybe use your group time? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27453	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin at the beginning on behalf of the LDP Parliamentary Group to express the strongest protest of the merger or of this kind of merger of agenda points. I'll try to make a different argument than my colleague's. We don't mind saving time. We support this and, of course, we think that the Assembly should work even more efficiently, but not by joining the agenda item, where the proposal is to elect a member of the RRA, which I will talk about, a decision on the election of the Council of the Republic Post Office, well, this termination of the judicial duties, but the election of a member of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the selection of members of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors in the Order of Lawyers – this choice completely destroys the reputation of these institutions, completely destroys the reputation of the institutions that already exist, and condemns in advance these institutions that we are just forming for the first time. The only common denominator for the merger of these proposals for the selection of those five people is that these are some people that the Assembly should choose in some places and nothing else. I tried to find another thing to tie these people up, but I couldn't. But what the dots are connected to in one, that's just one thing. There is another much worse thing – none of the candidates for any of these functions that you are proposing today have been seen by any of the MPs. In what way will the congregation declare themselves? I must tell you that even our Rules of Procedure means the right of the Committees to organise something called the so-called public hearing, where representatives or candidates would be given the opportunity, similar to ambassadors, to present their programme and explain what they want to do and why they want to do it. In such a way, the congregation would have the right to choose these people, with these people having much greater authority. Unfortunately, this shows that it is, more or less, a political trade and that they can agree with their colleagues. The only goal of this debate is to meet the minimum legal obligation and to get some people elected in some places. We all know in advance that this is a new source of scandal and affair in the coming period, because we know absolutely nothing about these people. And we are expected to elect now a member of the First Chamber of the High Council of the Judiciary without the presence of a Justice Minister or a member of the First Council of the State Council of Prosecutors, also without the presence of the justice minister. Or, a member of the Republican Broadcasting Agency, which I am now going to talk about, without the presence of the Minister of Information, and only a month after the incredible shame and scandals this assembly was shaking the entire public and forced for the first time in Parliament's history 250 MPs to enter the hall, and again the same mistake. I believe, Madam Minister, that you are not fully aware of the RRA case, but allow me to remind you that she does not have two members at this time. The mandate expired on 17 February this year, today is October 13th. So, eight months, there's no slightest indication that the state wants to at least restore some of the authority that the body has, and even when it comes to the Assembly proposal, one is missing again. Is it such a problem to choose both missing members of the RRA, which is only one surface of the media scene that is catastrophic, with which everyone in this assembly agreed only two months ago. And then we all accused various mob associations, criminal associations behind some newspapers, accused parties that have their own newspapers, and we all dealt with it, but today I think it's time to talk about the role of the state in creating this chaos. So, eight months without bodies that are required to regulate the business and functioning of electronic media in Serbia. Well, what's strange then is that Aleksandar Tijanic is the director of "Serb TV" and blackmailing the president of the Assembly by sending an account of 500,000 euros? I don't know if that's true, I'm talking about information from the newspapers, which is the only information available to us, because, apart from the plenary session, no other part of the assembly is working. Therefore, a proposal was to elect a member of the RRA Council as in 2003. So they were all in front of the congregation. Every MP of the assembly had the right to ask them any question they wanted. They had the right to give their own program based on which the congregation decided which one of them would choose. It's not necessary for us, it's necessary for the public. The public has the right to know why a party or a parliamentary group voted for one candidate and another for another. This is completely avoided, and we now expect that the body chosen in this way in the Assembly, under the carpet, to have the authority to fight the media chaos that exists in the country or with companies that create so much public opinion. Believe me, this is a waste of business. It doesn't matter what the result of that vote is. I won't talk about this second, I think it's much more scandalous that the same kind of hearing procedure has not been conducted in the other two institutions – the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. I think it's scandalous and time will confirm what I'm saying, don't have any doubt about it. What is the further responsibility of the state in creating media chaos? In addition to what was necessary to propose two, instead of two, we have one candidate again, for one we know, it is Gordana Sushi, because we will vote for him because we know who the promoter is, that is the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia and that is why we have defined ourselves, but there are many questions that we do not have an answer to. The same RRA I think sent research this month for the sixth time, among other things, to the government, by which the so-called "Republic Public Service", or RTS, does not perform any of the 11 functions of the public service. By blocking the election of members of the RRA Council, the government is holding Tijanic as director, destroying the institution's authority, from one party, and their physical impediment to work, on the other hand. I'll remind you that the mandate of two other RA members ends on February 17th, that's in two months. It is now clear that by February 17th of next year another member is not elected and that this prevents the RRA from working. That's the only reason, it's not a matter of technical complications that we didn't choose two members of the RRA today. But we'll all be here in February, so will you, so we'll talk about it a little bit more, Mr. Zoran Ostojić will talk a little bit more about RTS. Three or four months ago, the Public Information Act, which was adopted scandalously, with many amendments, first media associations, then two LDP amendments, questioned the Serbian government. As I recall, since 2000, it is the first time that one law has led to the rise of tensions in society, conflict or division. Now the government wants a member of the RRA to be elected in the same way. What else can we conclude from this than that it was actually a government's intentional move? I can't conclude anything else. If someone makes one mistake once, then it's understandable, but if they do it another time, then either he's not capable of understanding what it's about or doing it on purpose. I don't think you're incompetent, that anyone in that government is incompetent, at least by looking at personal interest, so this is what you're doing on purpose and there's no other word? There are a whole series of things that have to be done to take care of a media scene, for which everyone is taking care of, and especially the minister from your government, which is also under the circumstances of your party, who has advocated and agreed with us here in the Serbian Parliament. I will remind you, the adoption of an effective and enforceable law on the prevention of media concentration, significant changes and improvement of the Law on Broadcasting – well, we are eight months late with the election of members of the Council. What changes to the Law on Broadcasting can we talk about, when will they come to the agenda – 2050, when all Serbian citizens also get passports?- I'm sorry. Amendments to the Law on Public Information and Modernisation of the rules on the functioning of the public broadcasting system and something that is very important, which is digitisation, the digitisation for which we gave ourselves a deadline by the end of next year. We're eight months behind with the election of members of the RRA Council, and that digitalisation is being conducted by the RRA, on the one hand, and by your ministry, on the other. So, this RRA, I tell you as ministers, will not exist next year, February 17th, it ceases to exist. Of the nine members there are six, if she doesn't come one she can't make any decision. None! What's the position then? I guess what we're gonna do. At the end of next year we will postpone to 2015, with amendments and additions to the Law – number 2012 changes to number 2015, and nothing, again connected to about 30 points, who knows what, but the problems remain. Most of all, LDP resents the fact that today is not the presence of the Minister of Culture and Information. We had an agreement that was reached here in the Assembly, not at any secret meetings, which is to make'media strategy'. The strategy should be made with the presence of both press associations, media representatives and ministry representatives. To satisfy the public, a working group has been formed to create a'media strategy'. That was a month and a half ago. I don't think the minister wanted to come here today because he knew he'd have to answer the question of what's going on with that media strategy after a month and a half. The proposals of this "strategic" exist, it's a very important document from which all the changes to all these laws I've been talking about, and that's the only way that this media scene wants to be taken care of. That's what we offered our help in. It's your business whether you accept it or not. We're only telling you what's the right way. The choice of one member per member of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, however, to the real needs of our society or to the reality of this broadcasting agency – is not a media scene. It's not a media scene! Two European institutions: The Council of Europe and the OSCE are helping the state of Serbia formulate a'media strategy', and are helping to draft all these laws. What's the state's response to that? The formation of these working groups is accepted, and people who write laws are placed in that task force, which cannot be implemented. Understand us, it was our fault – false professors of political science, people who falsely represent themselves as professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences sitting in a working group. It was our fault in 2001, but you're also witnessing it. Why are they in the task force today? What the Liberal Democratic Party is asking the Government is that the Minister of Culture and Information comes and explains the composition of a working group that creates, first, a media strategy, and then all these amendments and additions to the Law, because we don't trust these so-called experts, who write laws to get fees, and then get fees from the other side to change those same laws! And if they don't accidentally get involved in the process of amending the law, then they're raising shit and getting into the campaign by not choosing sides and choosing funds, all of them, falsely representing themselves as amazing experts in the area. It's one of the main problems of a media scene like this. We ask you, if you have an answer, excellent, to tell us, very clearly, a list of laws to be passed? That's one thing. When will the'media strategy' be passed, when will the laws be passed, as long as the government has arrived at writing these laws, what is the plan?- I'm sorry. “ But first, answer, what about the'media strategy', have the press associations agreed to participate? We talked to both associations, they told us they were ready to say yes. What happened after that, are they ready to participate in making'media strategies' or is that'media strategy' going to be the fortyth item of the agenda, about God asking what, and that we're going to adopt it, and then a month of explaining to everyone around how we actually had a good intention?- I'm sorry. Now's the time to decide. We offer our help, it's a political thing whether you accept it or not, it doesn't matter, what we think is your obligation, is that if you want to be a European government, accept the assistance of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, change the composition of the working group, replace it with younger people, more ambitious, who are willing to do what has been done in Europe for hundreds of years, or at least a hundred, and that, every time or every time, you submit a report to the Committee on Culture as long as it has arrived in formulating these documents. Today we will also talk about the Radio TV of Serbia, because every choice of members of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for us is a good opportunity to talk about Aleksandr Tijanic, and on the other hand we are grateful that you have shared this choice, which is not two members, but we will again have the opportunity to talk about it. I can now only announce that the LDP, along with some other parliamentary groups, has ordered an analysis of the RTS programme. That analysis will be presented by Mr Ostojić. And I'd like to ask you to stay here so that you can understand the scandalous state in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27454	Thank you. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, I would like to inform you, in accordance with Article 93(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that by the opening of the search for a word, MPs, with a number of MPs, the following parliamentary groups: the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Liberal Democratic Party. I give my word to Mrs. Milici Radovic. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, of all the points that are joined today into one, I will remain at those points concerning the judiciary. No matter what the judiciary is not on the agenda today, I will take this opportunity, as an opportunity, to say a few words, because I find the situation in the judiciary alarming. The fact is that most citizens are not satisfied with the way the courts work, but the question arises – are judges the only culprits for the situation in the judiciary today? I'm absolutely convinced they're not. Today, the state is constantly putting pressure on the judiciary by treating it, not as a separate branch of government, but treats it as something that is subject to it itself. This seems, among other things, to impose on the judiciary some radical solutions, which in the worst way change both the position of employees and, in general, the overall atmosphere in the judiciary. All we will remember is the Law on the Order of Courts, which abolishes 104 municipal courts, and to this day we have not found out by which criteria it was done. In this way, just as justice must be made available to all, another set of negative effects, from the enormous layoff of workers, to the very death of a large number of small cities, whose citizens themselves will be gravitated to the centres. In this way we will come up with a situation – that the idea of even regional development and decentralisation will be completely abandoned. Of course, none of us deny that justice is a necessary reform, but it must first be realistic, feasible and well-designed. It is more important at this point – that the same rules, when implementing the reform, apply to all. I want to say here that the law, or body that we have established ourselves by law, which refers to the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, must have absolutely the same treatment as all the other bodies themselves. Namely, it must not have a privileged relationship and privileged status in relation to others. I am primarily speaking from the position of re-election, because the fact is, if the re-election is established as a rule, despite the opposition of a huge number of professional public, then it is imposed as a rule that it must apply to all – from the judges themselves, even to the bodies that today, tomorrow, will choose all these judges and re-election them. Of course, this speech of mine notes that I am not at all concerned with human resources, because I believe that the names that are proposed today are much less important than the very principle that was established in the election itself. The fact is that Serbia's judiciary is in a very serious situation. In my view, the most damaging thing is that a general picture has been created in public – that the entire judiciary is corrupt, that all judges are unprofessional, unworthy of performing their functions. Simply, from day to day, respect for judges and courts falls as a very important institution. The parties have become so boastful that they literally open the courtroom door with their feet. They're threatening not only verbally, but also physically assaulting the judges themselves. On this occasion, I don't want to mention a series of tragic events that happened in our judiciary, but unfortunately, there are. I am saying all of this because I believe that this is also one of the reasons and causes – why we are meeting in our society today with some very unloved, in general, the consequences and events that we are aware of today. For this reason, I believe that the state should primarily change its attitude towards representatives of the third-largest equal branch of government and try to change together with them the picture that is ruling in the judiciary, instead of constantly imposing radical solutions that continue to be aimed at further destabilising the judicial organism itself. Exactly, one in a series of these radical solutions is a huge reduction in the number of judges. Serbia today has about 2,400 judges, but since 1 January 2010, the figure will be 1,838. We notice that the number of judges will be reduced by 562. A large number of judges are frightened, and rightly so, because they'll be out of a job. This may not be such a shocking figure if we look at it in an all-out picture where recently in Serbia, 100,000 citizens have lost their jobs, but it is shocking if we look at it from the point of view of the judiciary itself. We need to know that a judge would be created if it took time, it needs to make a huge effort to master and acquire certain legal knowledge and skills, but it is also necessary for the state to invest in it. That's why, from this point of view, this is one worrying, in my opinion, information. I believe that the reforms in no country were carried out overnight. What today is called reform, in my opinion, is more like lustration and the creation of justice by political key. If the aim of judicial reform is a faster and more effective trial, then I rightly ask the question – how will it be possible in one situation where the number of judges will be reduced, where the number of courts will be reduced and the inflow will remain the same or unchanged? I've talked about Belgrade's justice many times before, but it's just impossible to get around this subject. It's a typical example of a overbooked judiciary, the justice that's the most burdened. Today we have a situation where a judge litigator has an average of 300 cases in his work, a culprit between 150 and 250, and an investigative judge of about 500 cases. I just want to ask the representatives of the Department of Justice, who are not here today, how do they even imagine that they will come to a faster trial and to a more effective judiciary, if it is quite clear that the judges who remain to work will be additionally burdened by the cases of those judges who will become excess? Of course it is clear from this, not that we will not have a more effective judiciary for these reasons, but there will be much less room for the trial itself. The Belgrade judiciary will have two in fact instead of five courts, and the number of cases will remain the same or unchanged. To me, simply this mathematics with which the representatives of the Justice Department have been going public all these last days, and in fact in recent months, in order to create an effective and much faster judiciary on trial, is not clear. If we add to all of this the fact that our administrative staff in courts are so unhappy with their material situation that it's completely destimulated and demotised to work, then we can really rightly say that the judiciary today is in a chaotic state. I think it is necessary for the representatives of the Justice Ministry, otherwise the creators of most poor legal proposals, instead of threats and daily threats, to try to find common language with representatives of the judicial authority and finally start to respect them in order to increase their self-awareness of the necessary respect of state institutions among the citizens themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27456	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27457	Ma'am, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27458	You have 67 minutes and 12 seconds!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27459	Thank you for letting me concentrate in time and space, because there's thunder coming. You were able to connect incompatible. Of course, you thought that in a lot of topics that are one item of the agenda would forget some things, but you can't forget some things, you can't possibly forget. Dear citizens, in order to complete this RRA, with all that Andric has said, well, Ostojic will probably talk about it, and what Martinovic has already said, we have two candidates. The first candidate of Gordan Suša – until "Eight Session" was power! When the communists fought, she went into opposition – now they reconciled again and, behold, they brought her back to power, but she was in great conflict with B92. Not only in financial, property, but also in the one – aperkat, crochet, etc. By the way, you know her by "Jutel," you know her by other things, and you know that it's some kind of exposure that needs to seduce some order. I don't see the difference between her in the RRA and, say, Konstantinovic on the Administrative Committee. The Resistance, the CIA, they're here together. What did these yellow companies think of? As an opponent, they appointed a man from Sapac, whom the RRA had been calling, punishing and warning for attacking Cedomir Vasiljevic on his private television, and abused the position of director of some television. Now, about that, it's like taking someone who's been punished with a 40-year sentence and asking him to be a minister of justice. If any of these candidates pass, they're done. If none of these candidates pass, they're done again because they don't need institutions. The RRA was at one point used to perform the feudal division and the tycoon division of the media. You know exactly how much anyone paid to get a channel, frequency, law, etc. Even those who started with the RRA Bill draft or the Public Information Bill, this famous American office that financed it, raised their hands at the time that the job ended up with Zarko Korac and some Veljanovski, who is represented as a professor. So, however you turn, you can only choose a worse solution. That's RRA for you. As far as the Post Office Council is concerned, there's another party division. I have a letter where the district court's verdict, which had to be passed within 48 hours, traveled for 25 days. I guess if I hadn't been interested, that verdict would never have come. Why? Because the President of the Municipality of Rakovica was gnawing, and one and another post office - there is no delivery to that address until further notice, until we finish the dirty work. Why do we need institutions when they don't work? What is the need for us institutions to reflect a party division that already exists in some way in the current government? Then why did you invite us? To choose between extreme nonsense and extreme corruption?- I'm sorry. There's no need for us to do that. I am taking the opportunity to inform citizens in the Republic of Serbia that they know why this is the situation. It just doesn't have to work for any state authority, they're all paralyzed, absolutely all of them. And how interesting this subject is, well, look how empty the hall is - an empty hall because it's already over. How? He'll let you know when the day of the vote comes. Now tell me how a normal man can be defined between Susha and her opponent. If he wants to stay normal, he can't vote, because every other decision is wrong. It's the beginning and the end. The question arises whether or not we have the High Council of the Judiciary and this larger prosecutor. I'm saying we don't have it, because he's never chosen a full composition. But they are already in competition, they are already preparing, they already have a plan that the courts are to sell, which the prosecution buildings have to sell. They've already decided who's going to be the judge. Just to remind you, in 2001, 2002 and 2003, when we criticised you for choosing judges and court presidents, you swore, in that little room down there, that it didn't matter, that there was no party division and so on. And now the letters of the Democratic Party's municipal committees are being circulated, who will be the judge, both the SPS and the G17 plus and so on. And then you talk about an independent judiciary. What kind of "black" independent judiciary?- I'm sorry. Do you know, say, that the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade is under the control of the DB, both judges and prosecutors? That's why no matter what, no affair from Rakovica can be resolved. None! Everyone there is in power except the SRS. They remembered, so the municipality and one private investor from New Belgrade made the Incubator Step company; then, the municipality that the cooperative land, 166 hectares, so, it comes out about 200, and there they will develop a social housing, so social cases that have no money or bread, allegedly, will make houses with the help of the company, and they will provide some donations. Nah, he's gonna buy a legal peasant land, a California country, that a farmer's cooperative can't get back because of Domiko Transport, because of the dog hotel, the president of the municipality, his deputy, Dacic's father-in-law, who's been out there for 25 years. So, how come he gets to court? Which court can handle this, please explain? The simplest thing, we can't get the fake terms back. Here, tomorrow is session SO, will any of the reporters go to the movies? After that talk, from seven days ago, they went to check on something and who they found to ask – the president of the municipality! Find someone to ask, well, is he gonna say that? Ask these in Skojevsky – what has fallen there and who is making it? It's a residential neighborhood. Why? To legalize? A politician from Croatia, his son-in-law bought the Guard, is making an asphalt even though there is a ban. Everything's covered with bans, but everything's moving on. That's what's happening in all of Serbia. There's some paper for everything, some cover, but those who are in power move on. Nothing can stop them! Why? They've got most of it. What's that? In the media, they've provided as much as 127. How are they? Minded, beautiful, talking for 10, lying for 20, acceptable to the European Union, and citizens? They don't care. Who's asking the citizens? They should be low, small, condescending, obedient, because if they're not, they won't even get social help. I get the impression that if you've accepted something as a European liquid, you've accepted something the worst, which is a crime, and then you promote crime as a European liquid. I don't know what these people in Europe are doing. Have they not been offended by such a way of presenting European values? There's nothing, people. The problem isn't the law. The problem isn't who he's proposing. The problem is who's in power. In this country, it has become quite schizophrenic for the past year, imagine what is happening – Natasa Kandic publishes a book with missing and killed Serbs, someone goes to lick the State Department, and here he was blue from great patriotism, Boris Tadic sings songs "Red Stars" and "From Topola to Topola", drinks champagne and enjoys, and he doesn't know where his borders are, or where his country and every day demonstrates only one delicacy – that he prefers to be abroad rather than in the country. A little, a little, a little abroad. A little bit, a little bit, and abroad! He can't, poor thing, face this reality that's dangerous in Serbia. Dangerous! Why? Because you give people no perspective, no hope, no future. Can you imagine what our justice system will look like from January 1st? It will be worse than it was in Croatia six or seven years ago, when they made a so-called transformation. It happened that everything he knew went to the lawyers without the ignorant being left behind. For five years, the courts were blocked. Small percentages can measure how many judgments have been strengthened and what has not been restored to the retrial. Criminals flourished, enjoyed themselves. The Rakovic clan is stronger than the Earth and Surcinian together. Why? There are also the sons-in-laws of the President of the Republic, as the citizens speak, there is the director of Telecom, and there is the lady who was once moved for tax purposes. Out of the O.R.: all go thief! Can you imagine the man who discovered the great crime had to answer? Why? Because as an employee of the Administration of Revenue, he attacked the president of the municipality because he told the president of the municipality, Bojan Milic - I will not participate in crime in the payment of taxes on absolute rights. Last week I was in that disciplinary procedure. There is no work, but the IRS must also listen to the president of the municipality and former head of the SUP. You'll hear more about the Krakovic, how the beatings, the four of them, went into a man's apartment to beat him up. Why? Because there was some possibility that he might be able to say something he heard or saw. So, what kind of horror are you seducing in Serbia? You've seduced economic, social, political long ago. What's going on with your ideals? It's just violence! You've come with violence, violence and conduct! What else could you do? And you to carry out the reform, and you to get the state out of the crisis?- I'm sorry. As a member of the High Council of the judiciary, you proposed Goran Ciric, a friend of Bosko Ristić, a lawyer from Nis. Imagine, who could be elected Judge? The one who respects those two law offices. We're wonderland. The lawyer's office of Constantinovic and Homena, which is the state secretary, the defence of Tadic, the president of the Republic. Well, you and the Agency can write whatever you want. There is no law, no law! It's about party, relative and other criteria! I wouldn't be surprised if someone said that the wife of some president of the Republic owned the Montera construction firm. That wouldn't surprise me either. The word is, though, you know. There's a lot of talk. But there's probably truth where it's told, but the problem is that no one's going to check it out, officially, so they can take responsibility for those who are guilty or those who promote crime as a value. We have the continuity of crime at all levels. It started with sanctions: then the OSCE, at the time the European Community, and the UN also made a ring around Serbia to avoid trading, or to trade controlledly with the authorised goods in the social programme. And that's when a group of mobsters, who broke those sanctions, promoted themselves without the success of cheating on our organs, but made it possible for the one on the other hand to control it. They've won a terrible fortune and they're harassing Serbia today! And they are able to identify what their government will be like! How many tycoons do you have that chooses who will be the government? That's how this government was formed. That's how this government accepted -- give us a $3 billion loan, we don't care about Kosovo, take it straight to the IMF. Who is this political ideal that guides you, if it isn't that "drp" system? The smooth, nice, smooth, two-minute statements on television, nice, all nice, 'cause the whole world wants them, even wider, and bigger, they're ideal, young, beautiful, and we're gonna end it all. And where are the jobs here? And where is life in Serbia? Yeah, yeah, "Life can't wait," so you said, but whose? Maybe yours. What about the others? You don't see them. Let's make something up. If they're not civil servants, then we'll be soldiers, if they're not soldiers, then we'll be cops. Well, the police don't have shoes, see for yourself! In a few days, he'll be wearing torn shoes. Well, what do you need the police for?- I'm sorry. You've had enough cobras. You've had enough of Miki Rakic! You've had enough, Gilas! That's enough for you, Krstic! That's enough for you, Shaper! That's enough for you. Can a lawyer be a member of an organ that sets up judges? Is that a conflict of interest, people?- I'm sorry. More, especially, a friend of Bosko Ristic's. So put in this one that plays the minister of justice, and what will that judiciary look like when the elections are over? And your citizens will call upon you in all the places where the courts are being extinguished, where they find it difficult to do justice, and I call upon the citizens to call only the MPs of the parliamentary majority for all that is wrong in this country! Not Young Dinkic and these, no, but these messengers because they support them! They stimulate them to destroy the state. Now, that's the problem. You've got jewelry: he's been in the bar this, in the bar was what, he's quality, he's professional and so on and so on. He's gonna make the choice?- I'm sorry. It's supposed to be, first of all, moral! Did you suggest someone like that for a function? No, it's someone who accepts everything to end, just to have some convenience. Now, that's our problem. He boasts a few days ago, someone, says – 200 and some laws passed. And then, the next day of information - 200 and some law should be thrown out of legal life in the Republic of Serbia! So, what are you guys doing?- I'm sorry. We've turned your attention a million times to what's going to happen, in advance, in advance - don't do this, it's not right, it's wrong. No, you're smiling, we've got most of it, we're going to vote! And you have accepted any corruption to present it to politics. It's not politics! It's not Parliament's burning policy! It's not politics closing jobs! It's not politics, it's crime! That's the word. So I call upon the citizens, where you find MPs of the parliamentary majority, stop them, ask them, what do you do, people, in that assembly, what do you demonstrate?- I'm sorry. Extreme nonsense or extreme corruption?- I'm sorry. Well, that's why people didn't send you to the National Assembly! You're an example of the Municipality of Rakovica. Light case?- I'm sorry. There, the Democrats got involved with everyone, and they're harassing, they're harassing; the cops get gigs, the councilmen get a business space, the other councilman installs a trafo station, everything they can: they get phones at 700 euros to be on the line, they make something out of buildings, there some money, they buy everything! This one boasts that he has intelligence, cameras, the whole community is recording, that no one is illegally building, except him, Bojan Milic, and some of them there, I don't know with nicknames -- and you know, as soon as someone has nicknames, the Argentinean, the Spanish, I don't know, it's a criminal. And you all know that, all of Belgrade knows, everyone in Rakovica knows and no one can say. Why? Someone thinks we're gonna be quiet enough to get out of this crisis. You're wrong. You're wrong. You're wrong. This crisis is not about silence, it's about harshly true criticism! And to reason with you, that you make normal regulations, that you choose normal people who can enforce those regulations. Can you imagine – if you are a boardman in Rakovica and you have your own gig or you have your own store, you are free to pay value added tax all the time! What's the criterion, then, how do you apply the law? So, the law applies to these others, and to these, no, it's just a matter of work! There must be no law, no vote, no vote – the power is down! And when a man has no confidence in the law, when a man for a reason has no trust in the court, when for a reason there is no trust in the authorities, what is left of him? He's left with natural rights, and that's self-help. Each individual to help himself to preserve his own life, and his own children, and his own property, and his dignity and his position. Every day we come into a situation where we realize more and more that we need to unite for self-help. Why? There is no law, there is no regulation, there is no state authority that can normally apply the regulation. I've reached the verdict of a woman, shame and shame, shame and shame, the judge of the county court says - I'm not interested in counterfeiting. And that's why her sentence travels for 25 days. And what's she interested in? What's she in court for? Why is she in court, why are people in court as judges? To carry out some justice, to apply laws, or to be similar? Like who? Like who?- I'm sorry. The one who drinks champagne in the stadium, where alcohol is forbidden? The great partisan sings "From Topola, from Topola, to Ravna Gora"! He accepts us all, just to be in power, people, so you don't understand! He's going to sell Serbia tomorrow just to stay in power! He doesn't care! He's got someone of his son-in-law over there by the crab! And no one can look him in the eye, and the income management man who discovered the crime and talked, will get the termination of the employment relationship after 30 and a few years of working hours and everything will be legal. Well, aren't you recalculating? It's much stronger my right to self-help than your violation of the law. Remember, my right to self-help is stronger than your violation of the law, and those of normal and these written! Explain to me, what is this quality for the judiciary that Goran Ciric will be elected as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary? Find me one good reason why his choice will rebirth our judiciary. He's gone! Can you imagine what's going to happen in some organ where Bosko Ristic is? Let me remind you, who broke up the S.R.J.? Who wrote the Constitutional Charter? Whatever Bosko Ristić did in writing, it's all gone, it's all ruined. Tell me, what good has he done in life as a politician? There isn't! Why? He's got a job to kick ass, to humiliate. Tell me what Homen did right. Tell me what this Constantineovic did, what Velya says he has billboards. What did that resistance do, tell me? Burned the congregation! Well, we know, anyone can light that. They're getting TV from the gym. But explain to me, what did he do well?- I'm sorry. Well, I'm a poor Democratic Party when it fell under the influence of the Resistance. Well, Chedomir Chupic of the Resistance, he couldn't pass for an MP, you transferred him to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Cedomir Cupic to fight corruption? Guys, please, are you serious? Gordan Susha to be in the RRA? Aman, guys, well, what is it: a search-and-search every day? Sonja Licht is now a political adviser to the younger Jeremic, all tied up. So who is the husband to whom, who is the wife to whom, so it is properly arranged, then the media brainwashing begins. And what's left for a man? Two bricks of deer beers and a slight whisper, not to look at reality. Now, that's what you want, to undo the dignity of this people, and I want you to be the snivelings, because you're doing everything wrong! [[Applause]] Look at the branches you brought to the state: for nine years you have been in power. What good have you done? We owe 30 billion! What company does it work? You saw, beef soup, chicken soup. Now, what did you burn? What are you guys up to? You run the country?- I'm sorry. Woe to this people when you guide him! Of course, we're going to vote against all of this, because you're no longer able to suggest anything normal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27460	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27461	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would refer to those points relating to the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors and the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I hope that re-election will result, that this is an opportunity to separate the grain from the weeds, that this choice will be made on the basis of fair criteria, in principle of knowledge, expertise, security, responsibility, efficiency, performance, and not on some other criteria and principles, because if it were by some other criteria and principles, don't give God, party or party membership, then it will be – we were free of charge. However, I believe that this choice will be fair, that this zero selection should be carried out and that this will then produce the result and, in doing so, the basic criterion should be the results of the work. When I was in my role as minister of justice in 2001, I tried to make one selection, not this much of a cloister, not this extensive, but to remove those who participated in election thefts, in mounted political processes, or whose results, and most of them were disastrously bad, as one of the pillars of each state and every government. You can't judge someone who confirms 10 or 15% of the convictions. Well, when will the people who come before him seek justice to get to that justice? That's one thing. I hope that the criteria for selecting prosecutors, which is an even more delicate thing, will be fair, too, and that these prosecutors will not be just an extended arm of power. Because here we have countless cases of selective justice, where some people are persecuted, put on a pillar of shame. And in all those announcements of various forms of mafia, which were raised by previous authorities, you have such cases where selection was made, where people in the same position, some even with uncomparably more potential responsibility, were abolized, or amnesty, and others arrested in front of cameras, such as Dragan Djajic, Radet Terzic, remained marked for life, placed on a pillar of shame and nothing. And some others, both in the football mob, and in the bankruptcy, and in other forms of the mafia, simply, as loved ones of that time, the authorities remained intact. This must not be done in the future, that there should be no marathon processes, such as, say, this, I'm only talking about the last ones, who have occupied the public's attention, such as the Topcider -- as an example of the vermin of those who need to establish the truth and establish justice, not that families fuck for five years, such as, from the unloved to the unloved, turning various thresholds, and the whole public knows the truth. And the birds on the branch know those two guys were killed! And they're all acting crazy. And it's the twilight of justice. Not to mention criminal charges against government officials, against individual ministers, who have been in office for years. There's no story about fighting corruption and crime unless there's a fight against white collars. And I expect it from the new judiciary. Or, for example, the crimes that are farce – the case of Agroliv, in my twenty-five-year career, I haven't seen it. Four men are in custody for a year and a half, the other 17 defend themselves from freedom, and then they come in and sit in the courtroom with the audience, along with the press, the defendants go out without reporting to the chairman, without him finding it, coming in, coming out, and sometimes they're not there during the whole search. It's a judicial cartoon. I hope, too, that the composition will finally be established and that the RRA will finally begin to do what its task is. Not only with regard to the allocation of frequencies, where there was countless selectivity, but also with regard to, here I am finishing, an analysis of the content of programmes of individual TVs and radio stations. I'm done. Please, look at what's being broadcast every night on TV. Look at the defiles of various mediocritys that young generations need to serve as role models. Expansion is, in enormous quantities, primitives, proscaluca, ham, spine and then no wonder these various forms of aggression, hooliganism and whatnot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27462	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27463	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, indeed when we hear a debate on these united points of the agenda, anyone who observes this transmission simply cannot see any connection between these issues relating to the RRA, to the mail, to the choice in the bodies of the judiciary. No matter what days we have heard about the efficiency of the Assembly, the essence is not to pass a series of laws, but to have quality discussions and to have the opportunity for the public to see what we are discussing, as well as what problems are related to the topics we are discussing. I will focus in my debate on the situation in the judiciary and on the issue of elections in these two important bodies, in the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, because I believe that what is now happening in the judiciary, this major reform, as the government has announced, is causing major problems. I'm free to say fears with legal holders. Practically, the judiciary is standing in Serbia right now. Anyone who deals with this business knows that discussions and searches are not scheduled until the end of the year, that this is being transferred to 2010. The judges don't know if they'll be elected, and for those reasons, they don't want this whole job to work. Those who expect, as they have announced, that the reformed judiciary will start on January 1st, I can say freely that they deceive citizens. I'll just take an example of Belgrade courts, where out of five courts, we should get two. I ask – how long will it take to seduce all these objects into two new offices? The estimate of employees working in the administration is that it will take months and maybe half a year. Then the question arises – is 2010 also lost for the judiciary, and perhaps the most lost for citizens who expect to exercise their rights to the institutions of the judiciary? It's a kind of problem that's extremely important. Another kind of problem is that by entering the judiciary in this reform, there has been a significant reduction in the rights of citizens to justice, but not only that, but there have been major problems in many cities and municipalities. There was a statement here that 104 municipalities had been shut down. This government is abolishing the institutions. It is the first government in Serbia to abolish institutions. The government is firing despite the promise of mass employment, according to the prime minister's exposé -- 200,000 new employees. The abolition of institutions and dismissal is the policy of this government. Now, in these municipalities, where you don't have a court, where you fire in local self-government, you fire in courts, of course, according to the World Bank's recommendation, schools will be closed, a question of a normal and civilized life arises. Not to mention the availability of justice and the right to a natural judge, as it has often been said here in the debates that we had had to see in a series of laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And the fact that one judge from one place is going to travel to another and that it's going to ensure that there is no corruption, is something that absolutely can't convince anyone. I will remind you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that when representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the National Assembly were presented, a pompous reform of the judiciary was announced, the abolition of courts in these small towns -- as if the largest corruption in the judiciary was in those small towns. And it's not big in Belgrade, it's not big in Novi Sad, where judicial institutions pile up, but in Raca, in Zablje, in Žabari, in Surdulica is the biggest corruption?- I'm sorry. The question is, who in which way does he deceive and what does this whole judicial reform want to achieve? Is abolishing institutions and firing the path to efficiency, what are they talking about here? Is the smaller number of judicial officials something that will contribute to efficiency? I'm sure it's not! We fear that on January 1st 2010, because of all these problems, it will be the introduction of great turbulence in the judiciary, and certainly, that citizens of Serbia who want to exercise their rights will not be able to do so, now they cannot have scheduled discussions and searches, and will have lost all of 2010. Then we ask the question – what about efficiency? The 1st of January will be here soon. I don't want to talk about colleagues who are elected to these two high and important institutions, but I want to point to a kind of hypocrisis that exists with the ruling majority, which refers to the autonomy of Vojvodina. Here, we have the opportunity to listen for days to the statutes, to listen for days that this may come one day, that maybe the law on determining the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina is filled with the mouth of Vojvodina's autonomy, and there is no representative of the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers in this institution, one of the largest legal chambers with the longest, almost centuries old, tradition. On the one hand, we are inventing new institutions in Vojvodina, proposing statutes, and institutions that have existed for so many years, we ignore them in this way. Then the question arises – are those who talk about the autonomy of the Vojvodina, the rights of citizens to autonomy, the strengthening of their institutions, in fact, genuine? They made a mess with the statutes, they don't know how to get out of it. So, Vojvodina has no right to autonomy under the Constitution, their institutions are ignored, like the Vojvodina Bar, one of the largest in Serbia, while at the same time pleading for it. The Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, she spoke of it, in response to our head of Parliament, the President of the Assembly, with an amazing finding that the Government's proposal would include more comprehensive solutions. Please respond - how do you know what solutions will be contained in the government's proposal, and such solutions are reportedly not contained in the proposal sent by the DSS Parliamentary Group, and what is that supposed to mean in light of this debate and the postponement of the statement of the Statute? So, exactly, this is an example of how those who are full of the mouth of regionalization are abolished by the institutions and courts in municipalities, whose mouth is full of the autonomy of Vojvodina, are ignored by large institutions, such as the Vojvodine Bar, and at the same time, invariably delay the adoption of the statutes and one bill that is here in the National Assembly, which is proposed by DSS and NS, do not want to put in place. You don't want that and you need to say it out loud and clear here. And what's behind it, we'll definitely talk about it in the next period. In any case, Serbia's judiciary, following this reform now under way, following an election procedure conducted in the judiciary and the prosecution, is in great trouble, is in great doubt and is in great fear. As fear comes out, it's a big question. We are convinced that it is not a good solution to establish new foundations of the judiciary in this way – by abolishing the courts and pressing the judges, as well as by party choice of judges. And in any case, the laws that have been passed and which are now beginning to apply will not achieve what is the ultimate objective of the judiciary, which is that when a citizen comes to court, justice comes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27464	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27465	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have one more papazian than a united debate, that is, agenda points. I have tried, using this something of my legal knowledge and years of experience, to try to find a connection, let's say, between the proposal for a decision to elect a Council of the Republic Post Office and a proposal for a decision to suspend the judicial duty of the judges who retire or, for example, a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee and I could not find any connection, especially in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, which I suppose should oblige all Members of Parliament, including the President of Parliament. According to this Article 142, which has been called upon by the Proposer, the merger of these agenda points and for which you voted from the ruling majority, probably not knowing what it says in this article, I will remind you that it says, "The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint review of several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and they are conditioned or the solutions in which they are interlinked." It is clear that none of this has been fulfilled, but that only speaks in favor of our claim as to what you have turned the National Assembly. When you represent the National Assembly, I think of you, Madam President, then boast of how many laws we have passed, how many other acts, and the other day you said that a proposal on amendments to the Law on travel documents would soon be found on the agenda, that this is a very important law for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, when we talk about this law, then we'll remember what we told you on the last day of work in 2008, when we said it was impossible for you to do the job you committed yourself to. So from month to month, year to year, you can propose changes to the law, because you're completely unprepared to carry what you bring here, in fact, into action. Why am I saying this? Because even today, at these united points, we have evidence of your incompetence, not only of you personally but of the assembly majority, we have proposals that have already been voted on, which were obviously and then ready to vote, but because of the failure to find the MPs who voted for these proposals, I remind you, that was the day you had to vote for several hours, so you voted several times on the same proposal, to explain to the MPs that they should press a certain key if they wanted to vote. It was the day you were caught in the act of voting without a congregation majority, that some others helped you, etc. That is why today we have a proposal on the agenda that has already been discussed and voted. As we heard and as the Serbian citizens have heard, there are six points here that have nothing to do with each other, and colleagues from the SRS have talked about some of these proposals. I will focus on problems related to Serbia's judiciary and proposals relating to this particular area. We have two decisions here where we are proposed to stop the judge's duty because of the retirement of some judges, or as they say, they are suspended from duty due to the completion of the working century. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to mention the names of those people. People have probably earned, at least as far as the formal fulfillment of the conditions are concerned, and we need to make this decision, I can only wish these people to enjoy their pensions for as long as possible, but it's a good thing that we got this in the agenda, to discuss exactly what is happening in Serbia's courts right now, and in the context of this so-called reform of Ms. Malovic or, better say, Mr. Homen, because he is obviously the idea leader of this, God forbid me, reform. Today, we have a general chaos in Serbia's courts. No debates are scheduled, or scheduled with many months of delays, to come about at a time when this reform, or redistribution, and this new choice of judges, ends. Also, we have big problems in courts where judges don't talk to each other mostly, of course, prosecutors, because you put that problem in them, I mean the congregation majority. Of course, we don't even have a representative of the Justice Ministry here today, Mrs. Snezana Malovic. Mrs. Minister, who is present here, should be present, I have no objection, but she will obviously listen to most of the debate concerning some other resors, not the resort for which she is responsible. What's worse, we don't even have Bosko Ristic here, who's proposing in one part of these decisions. Of course, to get back to this story about the current problems in the judiciary. Why do they happen, and why did I put it together when I retired? Because today, almost all courts in Serbia know which of the judges will remain judges and who will not be. This contest has been called a purely formality. This is, in fact, supposed to be and will be covered by courts being cleared of those judges who are not prepared to judge by the system – 'we have received a verdict', but want to do their job according to the law, according to their profession. It is already known how many judges and prosecutors, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, who have met one of the requirements for retirement, who will remain in those posts, do not think, say they are leaving because they have good ties in the DS municipal committees, which are close to the party, many are even formal DS members. This is, indeed, a smile on you or not, something that is the issue in Serbia's judiciary. I am in this period until Parliament has worked around 40 municipalities in Serbia and talked to many people, not only members of the SRS and our municipal committees, but also the people I met on the street. I had a chance to meet both prosecutors and judges. Of course, I don't want to mention their names, because it could have a bad effect on this job that's coming next, or, I don't know if it's again or if it's the first choice, it probably doesn't even know who's proposing this law. It is interesting that on the basis of these proposals that we have and you will probably vote positively this time, if in the meantime you learn how to vote, because last time you didn't get something out of hand, and this high council of the judiciary and this prosecution, and especially the High Council of the Judiciary will be an absolute advice from the DS. No one can question that. Here is an example – Bosko Ristic, an indisputable member of DS, Snezana Malovic, indisputable from DS, Mrs Nata Mesarevic, no one can say that he is not a regimeal judge. She is the one, I recall, who introduced the nowhere-seen principle into the Serbian judiciary – 'we have received the verdict', instead – we have reached a verdict. Now we have a proposal from the Bar Association that will still be members, on behalf of, of course, I was good at saying, the Democratic Party, and actually, the Bar of Lawyers. Here we have to have a little fun with the materials that we've just received from the Serbian bar and remind ourselves of some things, first of all, of Article 36. The law, which says, is that the process of proposing candidates for an election member of the Council of Lawyers is organised and implemented by the Law Chamber of Serbia, in a way that provides for the widest representation of its members. Therefore, this law, i.e. this Article 36, is not applicable when it comes to the proposals of the Chamber of Lawyers, i.e. the Management Board, that is very important, I will explain this in the course of the debate, so the draft Chamber of Lawyers for the selection of an election member of the First Chamber of the High Court and the election of an election member of the First Assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. Something very interesting and, please, follow these dates. Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Committee on 7 March 2009, informs Serbia's Bar Association that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided on the election at a session on March 30th, so he did not choose, etc. This is really very interesting – as Bosko Ristić was twenty-three days before this decision knew what the outcome of the vote would be, but it seems that everything is possible for you. Serbia's lawyer chamber sent a letter to members of the Justice and Administration Committee in this parliament. I'll read some parts that are really interesting. It is said: "Serbia's Bar Association held on 20 June 2009 a Assembly of its members, which, by its nature, provides for the highest representation of its members," it is in accordance with Article 36, "in which it took of three candidates to select one and propose it to the Assembly. On this occasion, for reasons unknown so far, in the re-voting the item was removed from the Assembly's agenda and was never returned to the agenda. The candidate now run by Serbia's Bar Association is the candidate of the chamber's Management Board, which cannot, by its nature, ensure the widest representation of its members, which is a legal prerequisite for proposing candidates. '"This, of course, is absolutely true. Also, we have information that the lawyer from Paracino, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, was the candidate of the regional bar for Kragujevac and was proposed twice for this function, and that right in the Assembly, later on on the board of directors, but of course, obviously the man does not meet some conditions that only the DS is asking for and could not be elected. Why in the beginning did I say that the candidates who will be elected, which is likely to be chosen, are exclusively DS personnel and that they will choose judges and prosecutors together with Bosca Ristic, Snezana Malovic and Nata Mesarevic? You yourself wrote in this proposal some details that clearly speak about it. You say that Serbia's Bar Association is acting in accordance with the provisions of Article 36(1) and Article 53. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary submitted the first proposal to the candidate on 28 January 2009. At that time, the proposed candidates did not receive the necessary majority of votes to select the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and then we have a second proposal that, as you have heard, is not in line with Article 36. The law on the High Council of the Judiciary. It is very interesting that someone who is willing to be chosen against the law will accept such significant functions as to determine who can and who cannot be a judge, or a public prosecutor. In this proposal, I did not mean to mention his name, but some of the characteristics that we have received about him must be presented, and the characteristics that we have just received from the promoter, says: "After a comprehensive discussion involving all the members of the Management Board, representatives of the legal chambers in Serbia, a number of present lawyers, the Serbian Attorney General Board has decided to propose to the National Assembly as the sole candidate to Dejan Ciric. ''Let's say, here's a question - why isn't there another candidate, Zoran Zivkovic, a paracin lawyer, who was an opponent? It is essential that it be the only candidate who, we are now talking about his professional engagement, informed the National Assembly of the Bar Association, a member of the working group of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia for the creation of a Strategy for reforming the free legal aid system in Serbia and a member of the Commission of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia for the drafting of the text of the law on the judicial exam. It is clear, therefore, that it is a man who is capable of the Democratic Party, because he would only be elected as such to be a member of this working group, i.e. the Commission. And even worse -- it is obvious that this man is already on the payroll of the Justice Ministry and that he is the second representative of the Justice Ministry, and by law only one and that minister, that is Mrs. Snezana Malovic, this also says that this proposal is completely contrary to the law. We also have a proposal from the Attorney's Office regarding the election of an election member of the First Chamber of State's Attorneys. The same explanation after a comprehensive discussion and so on, is proposed as the only candidate, Miroslav Bojic, a lawyer from Cačka. Also, his professional biography states that he is a member of the Justice Department's Commission to draw up the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that he is a member of the Commission of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, from that time on, to harmonise the rules of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, these characteristics are certainly not a guarantee that this gentleman will apply the law by being the same for all, and that all will be the same before the law, when it comes to the choice of judges, or public prosecutors, in this case, and we in the SRS do not expect, nor can we believe that these two men as representatives of these future bodies can work impartially and can judge who truly deserves to remain a judge, or public prosecutor. Meanwhile, Serbia's Bar Association, dissatisfied with what was happening, or one group of lawyers, has appeared in line with the Statute of the Serbian Bar Association, and it is a matter of really eminent names, mostly Belgrade's lawyers, here, let's say Biljana Kayganic is one of those lawyers, and they say this – Serbian Parliament delegates' proposal for a session of the Assembly of Lawyers pursuant to Article 17. The Statute of the Bar Association, therefore, this group of lawyers says it's date 5. 09. In 2009, the Administrative Board of the Law Chamber of Serbia decided to propose candidates for election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and for the State Greater Prosecutors of the Order of Lawyers, opting for candidate Dejan Ciric and Miroslav Bojic, and that the decision was illegal and illegal, since the proposal for candidates for those bodies was not carried out in such a way as to ensure the widest representation of its members, as provided for in Article 36(2). Laws of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, these signed delegates of the Assembly of the Bar Association, pursuant to Article 17. The chamber's statutes suggest that the president of Serbia's Bar Association schedule a session of the Serbian Bar Association, where, among other things, these candidates would be discussed, not on this, but on candidates already discussed in the Assembly, but on the contrary, the Governing Board adopted the law. Why did we need to introduce you to this? Well, just for the reason you're counting, you who will vote for these proposals, that you already tried to vote once, so you failed to allow most of it, and only because there was an error in the vote, but on the fifth day in a row, so you couldn't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic could no longer allow you to repeat the vote because two or three people were not in the hall and did not vote. We want to warn you that you will have problems in the public again, you are showing one exceptional insolence and self-will, you are not interested in what the profession says for any area you decide on here, as you were not interested in the opinion of public opinion and legal profession when it comes to this new network of courts, and then the other day, Ms. Malovic says, explained, convinced, that this reform will bring some miracle unseen in the area of justice, that the courts will work more efficiently and then gave some explanation, or remark. I really couldn't understand it, I'm probably not as smart as Snow White Malovic, but maybe you'll understand. Mrs. Malovic explains why we need this kind of reform, why courts should be abolished, i.e. to reduce 104 courts in Serbia. He says -- you know, in the Community Court of Ariel, any case can be resolved in three years, and in Belgrade it is impossible, now after this reform it will be evened out. In what sense, I didn't understand that she found a modusa and a way for some object to be completed in Ariel in three years to end in Belgrade in three years. I understood that similar cases that last 17 years in Belgrade and in Ariel instead of three years would last 17 years, because it would be a problem with what we talked about when we talked about this so-called network of courts, when we tried to explain both the minister and the ruling majority to do something that would bring great problems first to the citizens of Serbia, citizens who must seek justice in certain situations. Minister Malovic argues two days ago that access to justice is still possible. Of course he is, but in what way if someone from Ariel has to go to the Main Court to get to Uzice, how long will it take him to pay for a lawyer, how he'll be able to find an expert, how he'll make sure he leads the witnesses and so on. Another problem that follows the application of these laws and the so-called reform expected by the end of this year is the problem of reducing the number of judges, reducing the number of prosecutors and reducing the number of court administration employees. A reduction in the number includes a large number of cancellations. It is estimated to be about 3,000 resignations: around 600 judges, 400 prosecutors or deputy prosecutors and 2,000 court administration employees will be out of work, following the "successful" reform of Ms. Snezana Malovic and this regime. So don't worry about citizens' interests in any area. You heard from colleagues who spoke before me how much you don't care when it comes to people, not to say ordinary people, we're all ordinary people, there are some who have special powers and act like they're "God of Days" and they're in government, in Boris Tadic's regime, they act like they're laughing at Serbian citizens. Last night, we were able to see a minister who said we'd leave the recession at the end of the year or the beginning of next year, but if the citizens weren't hoping, that doesn't mean the citizens would live better. Citizens must be tortured for at least another year because, according to the smart minister, it is better to be out of recession than in recession. Of course, it was accompanied by his ironic laugh. That laugh was about all Serbian citizens, it's obvious. Day after day, we have such situations and such cases that ministers make fun of what citizens of Serbia are; they don't care that people are out of work every day, that they don't care that every fifth citizen in Serbia is hungry. Also, these days I've read in the press, which has startled me, and the government says that the salary of 8.160 dinars or 8.360 dinars is, I'm not sure, a profit under which someone who receives less than that is considered poor! Now, I would very much like to, especially if the finance minister is here, it might be convenient for you to answer Mrs Dragutinovic, perhaps your colleague, and any of the MPs of the assembly majority -- how is it not a poor person whose profits are 8,160 dinars? How can you live with that kind of pay, and you think that someone who has that kind of pay, or profit, is above the poverty line? Isn't that mocking the people? Is it not a mockery to all those who make ends meet, and especially to those who are left without a job? We're going to have a chance to talk about this law, and I can see that today it's in our material, which is about reducing employees in the state administration. I haven't had a chance to read the bill yet. I did listen to the ministers and I did follow what was going on in that area. There, too, will happen'miraclely unseen' – that all the employees you've been taking to the party's task will remain employed, and they will lose the job of people who are 20 and 30 years in the state administration, who have baked a trade in that part, that is, in the work that they do. The question is, how are you going to work later when you fire those people who only know how to do the job? Of course, we'll talk about it then, like I said, when this law is on the agenda. We are now talking about what is related to the area of justice, to judicial reform. It has repeatedly been tried with reforms in the area of justice and has never been fully successful, it has never been possible for our judiciary to be independent, to be independent, to have judges decide according to judicial duty. There were always those who were influenced by the executive. So far, it has been a small number of judges and fewer public prosecutors. These were mostly those listeners, who were recognizable in every court, wherever you went to Serbia, or who was the regime judge and who was the regime prosecutor. What is now done, this is the worst ever tried or implemented reform. Today we will have exceptions, judges who will be tried by law, that is, after this reform, we will have most of the regime's judges, judges who both Bosko Ristic and Snezana Malovic, and this Ćirić and Bojić, I do not know what they are called, will be able to turn the phone and tell them – this case will be tried like this, this one to judge, or to judge, this one to put in the drawer, to bring this to the table. The reform of the judiciary was supposed to be the opposite of what you've done. It should have been that way to reduce the number of regime judges, to work and to judge by law, and to make prosecutors independent and independent in their work, and so do the judges, but you didn't want it. Also, as part of your story of even regional development, you should have developed a network of justice in Serbia rather than shutting it down, not asphyxiating it. I'm sorry that Madam Minister, both of you, I look at you when I'm talking about this, because you're part of the government, although I don't believe you're personally responsible for this. This even regional development shows you that it's just something that sounds nice to you, and that's not something that's the government's intention and this regime, because you're going to be out of a job both judges and prosecutors. On the other hand, there is a problem, i.e. it shouldn't be a problem, but in this situation it will be a really big problem, when 500, 600 judges are out of work, and they can't be lawyers in the court in which they were tried. Imagine someone who, for example, for 30 years was a judge in one court and now he can't after 30 years of judicial experience, because he wasn't like him, since he doesn't have a moral political resemblance, since he didn't show willingness to judge by the orders of the executive, whether it's local executive or republican executive power, that someone will have to move out of his place of residence, because he has to work on the territory of another court. Did you even take care of it? Are you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who voted in favour of these laws and who will vote for these candidates' proposals for this first session of the High Council of the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, or did you take care of that? Do you even talk to the people? Do you even know how to live and what the real problems of Serbian citizens are? Do you ever get out of a car or do you have any contact at a store, at a market, in city traffic, in a public place, where you can meet an ordinary man, who has a lot of problems, who has a lot of objections to the functioning of the government, what we get, what they get from the congregation majority, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm convinced that, at least, sometimes you talk to a man. Does anyone ever stop you on the street? We do have such contacts every day, in addition to the citizens writing in the SRS, in our parliamentary group, people meeting us on the street, calling on the phone, and our municipal committees, complaining, asking – how can we help them? I am, I say, in a tour of 40 municipalities in the past month so much I have heard, again I will mention Arile, because Mrs Malovic, people on the municipal board say – don't be afraid of the municipal board, we are doing, as you can see, excellently working, our problem is raspberries, our problem is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has deceived us by standing exclusively, when it comes to ravines, on the side of the 'cold-refrigerator' and what has left us ragged, which we are all now at a loss, and what is worst – the government has managed to buy leaders of this protest'malinar'. When they came before the government, they stood, lay, sat for 24 hours. And that someone who represented them, after that time said he had arranged everything with the government, that they could come home. He did agree that only his raspberries would be sold, or paid at the price that all the "malinaries" asked for, remained on what the government was conditioned by "refrigerators". Why am I talking about this subject, about this agenda? Because I'm talking about something that's life-like, everyday citizens' problems, which nobody in the government cares about, about which nobody in the government wants to hear what the citizens say. That's why I'm worried that the MPs of the ruling majority have no contact with the citizens. Dear colleagues, you were elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose you should meet the demands of the citizens, as much as it is in accordance with the law. You, as the ruling majority, are certainly powerful in the sense that you can tell the representative of the Government or the Government of the Republic of Serbia – we will not vote for this law; we will not support this proposal, but we will not allow you to trade, make some new parliamentary majority, that you buy each session in one way or another, but we are asking that the Government works in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can do it. As MPs of the opposition, we can draw attention. Unfortunately, there are fewer opportunities from this pay phone, given the limited time, given the merger of so many agenda points – that it would not be possible to devote enough time to one item at a time. Of course, it's only because you're in a hurry to appear in public and say, how many hundreds of laws have we passed? Every two months we have amendments and additions to the same law that we are making today, nobody cares, you don't want to talk about it, you don't want to talk about anything that is essential to the work of this Parliament and the work of the Government, and above all that is the fundamental problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one in the public has answered the questions of what will happen to three thousand people who are currently employed in the field of justice, what they will do in the next period, how their economic status will be regulated, whether they will be subject to some social programme, whether they are subject to the Labour Act, whether there will be some special social programme as you have foreseen for employees in the state administration. It is not good, Madam Ministers, to boast in public, as Mr Milan Markovic did the other day, so it was titled in one newspaper "Insured Money for Fires". Put your photos on the front page of the newspaper and make a statement when you provide money for new jobs. It's easy to share people's layoffs in both the state administration and the judiciary. And you know how much you yourself have been responsible for the enormously increased number of employees in the administration for the nine years that you've been in charge of Doss and how much you've satisfied your party appetites and employed your party officials or the people who helped you during the election campaign, who've glued posters and so on, how much you've been responsible for this enormous increase in the number of employees, and you swore in 2000 that you would provide an up-to-date administration, a cheap administration, instead of eight thousand, we've received almost a baratile of 28 thousand employees in the state administration, and the latest statistics say that these are 32,000 employees. Apparently, those four thousand that have appeared in the last 2-3 months, they're employees of your agencies, they're those who work in parallel state or para-state bodies. It's the ones we talked about a year or two ago, how popular the various agencies are, that the manoeuvres are stuck, that you can't go over the back of citizens to foster and hire your party workers and officials. Of course, none of them are going to be out of work today, 104 agencies paying for Serbian citizens, who are not serving for anything and are not needed at all. Or, if these 104 agencies will remain, then gentlemen, you ministers, pack up your personal belongings from the ministries and get out of there, because parallel authorities and agencies and ministries are not needed and that we are in the best economic situation, are not needed from a legal aspect, especially in this situation where there are so many problems that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia suffer on a daily basis. So we're saying that no one in these 104 agencies is going to lose their jobs because they're your agencies, you've tucked in your dear activists, and without a job, there's going to be people with 30 or 35 years of employment who can't be hired anywhere anymore, who don't stand a chance. How they will survive, whether they will survive, that neither you in government nor you in the congregation majority care at all. How will he survive these three thousand, at least three thousand, employees of the judiciary, and of which, two thousand employees of the judiciary who have a salary of about 14 thousand dinars, with a maximum of 21 thousand dinars of high volume? So it's not about you protecting the state budget this way, because it's not about money that's important to the state budget. You haven't cut your salary in public enterprises yet, which we talked about more than a year ago. You've brought the regulation and still your party officials who are officials, i.e. in management and public business administration, have a fantastic amount of... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27466	Time's up, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27467	Madam President, distinguished ministers, few colleagues and colleagues, I will have to refer most of my presentations to the few, in the hall present, representatives of the ruling majority. We at the LDP are just looking forward to that sometimes you're actually making some moves that represent the behaviour of the so-called pro-European government, and then you're very quick to deny us. So is your activity with regard to the Broadcasting Agency Council and the selection of members. You've allowed the RRA to not have two members for almost a year. In the spring, you forcefully changed the Law on Broadcasting and introduced that the Committee on Culture and Information if the promoters propose more than two can and should throw out the rest, excess, and choose two who will reach the Assembly. You didn't do that either when it comes to this missing candidate for the RRA Council, who is being given and proposed by NGOs and citizens' associations. It'll be an interesting discussion when it comes to it, to see third bullet theory theorists reward or try to reward. Let's go back to what's ahead of us, which is the choice of candidates proposed by professional and journalistic associations. Yes, there are two candidates, one is NUNS, for which we will vote, that is Gordana Suša, and the other is the UNS, or Ljilja Smajlovic, and probably the vice president of your party, so you will probably vote for this other one, but I don't think it will change anything in the creation of this country's institutions. That's the way the elections are derrogated by the institutions. The Institute of the Broadcasting Agency Council is important to you. It's the only institution headed by the bishop at the moment by the bishop of Porphyria. And yet, they say that she's conservative, that she strictly takes care that in Big Brother or Farm, or in other reality shows, there's no scene of explicit sex, I guess only implicit, and then the other night, on one commercial television, a woman talks about how her father abused her, how she had three abortions, no, 50 times abortions, that her father's been raping her daughter for years, and the manager asks that woman if she's having orgasms while being abused by her father, and nothing happens. Since nothing is happening in this case, then it is normal that nothing is happening in a more drastic case, which is that the state of Serbia still does not have public service or has a so-called Public Service which has become a commercial service. A colleague, Andric, spoke about the fact that RTS does not perform any of the nine functions of the Public Service. He's making one that's not among those nine, which is that it's the most visible. However, these nine public service obligations mean that it cannot be the most visible. And that's why in my presentation, I'm going to do a little bit of this so-called thing. A public service that we don't have yet, or a commercial service that we got from our money, money from our subscription. It's important for every company, and I'm so glad that there's no Dragan Vujadinović who likes to write about this, there's a finance minister, she'll understand it, so for every company and for the normal business of every company, it's about rentability, security and liquidity. These three principles, unfortunately, RTS don't come true. This was done by experts and signed by one of the known company balance sheet experts, Dr Jovan Rankovic, when the final accounts for 2008 and 2007, (here comes Vujadinović, now, Dragane, something for you) is showing that RTS is falling apart. At the end of 2007, the balance sheet had a accumulated loss of billions and 765 million, and in 2008, the loss increased by another 176 million, so at the end of 2008, the loss of RTS was almost two billion dinars. This increase in loss is a sign that business with loss of RTS ate 27.96% of total own capital. This all resulted in a lack of own capital of three and a half billion dinars, which means that 50% of the fixed assets of RTS are financed by borrowed sources. This increase in accumulated losses has also caused an increase in long-term loans of 652 million dinars and in the short term by a billion and 300 million dinars. This has increased not only the state of responsibility, but has compromised the profitability of the company by surrounding that the increase in liabilities, both long-term and short-term follow-up of their price increases, i.e. interest and the increase of the income payments. The two 2007 and 2008 reports do not make it very clear that the right reasons for RTS's business with such losses can be drawn up. What is most interesting – what is strange about it? It's strange that incomes are increasing, and losses are increasing. In 2008 alone, revenues are higher than those of the previous year for nearly two billion dinars. Total RTS revenues in 2008 are over 12 billion dinars, 140m euros. So RTS spends about 11 and a half million euros. What's he spending so much money on? Like, spend on sports transfers. In the past year, eight hundred and four million were spent on sports transmissions, as if RTS was a sports channel. And it doesn't say in those nine public service obligations to be a sports channel. I'm not talking about wages, not talking about a fun program when I say that RTS has become commercial television, I mean, "I'm changing grandmothers for women" and such shows and shows that are paid and 100 grand, 100 thousand euros. And what is the function of the Public Service? It's all the opposite of that. What the public service needs to do doesn't do. Here's an example -- if a match, for example, is to be seen by Serbian citizens, commercial televisions would be unable to pay their rights, because it's expensive, from abroad, then public service should jump in, because that's what citizens should see. Anything else commercial television can buy, talk about sports broadcasts, entertainment shows, it needs commercial television to do. It often happens here that in this competition of commercial television and RTS, RTS wins, pays the rights twice as much as they cost, and that's taxpayers' money, our money. So, for years, such a situation has been tolerated in RTS since Kostunica took over the government after Djindjic's murder and placed his party and political press commissioner there, and you keep your mouth shut. Now you have most of it. You mean – what does RTS have to do with the election of a member of the RRA? There is! We're responsible for this business. You, primarily, because that RRA council is elected by the RTS Management Board, and this board is leading the RTS into bankruptcy, and that RRA council, headed by Prime Minister Porphyri, is not responding. So, RTS before bankruptcy, when the government starts forgiving his debts, it will, Mrs Dragutinovic, be an additional burden on taxpayers. People pay taxes, part of that tax goes RTS. People pay a subscription to have an education, school, science program, and they have "Marriage 48 hours" and "My cousin from the village", "The village burns, and the grandmother combs." It's not a public service. You do not want us to sit on the Committee on Culture and Information and talk to candidates – whether they will tolerate this behavior of the RTS Management Board, because of citizens. Those who run RTS are: academician Nikša Stipčević, Dragomir Antonić, ethnologist, Prof. Dr. Jovan Babić, philosopher, Slavoljub Đukić, journalist Milica Kuburović, journalist, Predrag J. Marković, historian, that's the one who has quizs, but it's not a conflict of interest, Dr. Bosko Mijatović, economist, Dusan Savic, sports worker, Dusan Stokanovic, economist, it's the one that has a religious calendar that costs 300 thousand euros a year. These gentlemen are responsible for the bankruptcy of RTS. These gentlemen and ladies received two and a half thousand euros from our couples in 2007. That's what taxpayers cost. Their wages are higher than yours. Your party discipline may require you to keep it all the same, but hopefully, then, your colleagues from New Serbia will survive in that idea with those books they shared here the other day, because that's all they can teach you. Interests that are visible from this tolerance, the conversion of the Public Service into a commercial service, the interests that are visible from such a board of directors, who, on the day he was elected, chose by the manager, who is not guilty, at the end of the day, he doesn't have a college, so he doesn't even have to know that the company is better managed, the new people are responsible, they're chosen by the RRA, and we choose the RRA, therefore, we're responsible. Interests are so visible that in the end you will suffer great political damage because of it. As an opposition party, I don't care! I'm interested in you having political damages, but that will cause damage and pro-European ideas in Serbia, and that's why I don't care. That's why I'm warning you, take your mind off it! Make a deal with your cabinet, President, to amend the Broadcasting Law, to fix the media scene, to finally start building institutions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27468	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Post Office, a list of candidates for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, proposals for decisions on the termination of a judicial office, a proposal for an election member of the first composition of the High Council of Lawyers, a proposal for an election member of the First Assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Court of Justice and a proposal for a decision to supplement the decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Madam Minister, to you and your associates. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the Inter-International Monetary Fund under the basis of the funds for the Allocation of Special Rights of the Wolfes approved by the Board of Governors No. 64-3 AND BR. 52-4 (principles) You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government. The report of the Legislative Committee and the Financial Committee came in. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, which means that it belongs to them: to the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; to the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; to the parliamentary group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; to the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the Group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not done so by now, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda, the parliamentary groups will represent: MP Milos Radulović – Parliamentary group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Jorgenka Tabaković – MP for Serbia, MP Boris Aleksic – SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's draft law on the regulation of obligations under the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allocation of special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 and no. 52-4. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27469	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, you have before you the draft law on the regulation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the IMF, based on the use of the allotment of special drag rights. You won't mind if I take this opportunity to remind ourselves all of the roles that special rights play. It's a form of international reserve activity that's catatonic. It was created in 1969, with the aim of supporting the Bretonwood system of fixed exchange rates as a complement to the official official foreign exchange reserve of the country. The countries that were then in the fixed exchange rate system had the need to hold some of the reserves in gold or in the currency most commonly applied, which was a dollar and to exchange these reserves for domestic currency in the foreign exchange and gold market. That way they kept the courses stable. However, the international supply of gold and dollars was relatively small to support the global development of trade and the development of the financial system, which is why the IMF, as an international financial institution, has actually created a new reserve currency, which is a special right to draw. Just a few years later, the Bretnowood system had a breakdown in 1973, so somehow special rights to drag were lost in part to the role they played in the fixed course system. So it's not money, it's not the IMF's claims, it's not the Member States' obligations. The special drawing rights are potential claims made by the IMF, i.e. potential obligations of the Member States. The interest rate on the special draw right changes weekly, always on Fridays, and the current interest rate on special draw rights is 0.26%. How do you allocate special drag rights? They're allocated to quotas. The odds are calculated on the basis of the formula. There will be an opportunity to say what kind of reform is currently being conducted and implemented in the international financial institution, i.e. the IMF. So there's been a change and a change in form. Basically, there are two kinds of allocations: one is a general alocation, and the other is special. The general allocation of special draw rights is based on the long-term needs of the international community and so far only three general allocations have been allocated. The first was between 1970 and 1972, the second was from 1979 to 1981 and the third in August 2009, the largest in its value. Just pointing out when there were general alllocations is that it's always been about some crisis years. Therefore, this general allocation, which was allocated in 2009, is essentially helping Member States to increase their liquidity. In addition to the general location, which is about 250 billion dollars on the level of the world economy, there is this special allocation. The decision was made in 1997, but only now was it implemented. The intention is basically to correct injustices against those countries that became members after 1981, so they could not participate in the allocation of general allocations, and 20% of the IMF member states, including Serbia, are now. Where did the general and special allotment of these funds come from? The most important source is bilateral loans concluded by the IMF with individual member states, it was rightly concluded with Japan, Norway and Canada, then with almost every member of the EU, Switzerland and finally, bilateral loans that enabled general and special alocation were also received from China, Brazil and Russia. How much did the Republic of Serbia get from this general and special allotment of special drag rights? So, based on the general Allocation, 346,7, the roughest, millions of special rights to draw or about $550 million, and based on a special location of 41.7 million special rights to draw, therefore, about 66 million dollars, all together something around $620 million is available to Serbia at this time, based on general and special location of special rights to draw. When we talk about this arrangement, I would like to point out that this is not a loan, it has nothing to do with stand-by arrangements or extended arrangements that Member States have with the IMF, this is potential money that can, and of course it doesn't have to, use without conditions. So if not used, the state has no cost, and if used, the only cost is the cost of interest, which, as I said, is 0.26% on the annual level. In doing so, it should not be forgotten that the interest rate is variable and changes on Fridays every week. It is possible, theoretically, that if more than 70% of voting rights are collected, to decide to withdraw, or cancel, this allocation. Like I said, this is the third allocation, there were two more, so far these decisions have not been made. In this regard, the Republic of Serbia, as well as any other member who uses these funds, would have to repay, or annul, an allocation given. When I said that funds are used unconditionally, so basically there are three possible uses of these funds, it is possible to help pay-balance problems, therefore, to be support and increase the country's foreign reserves, it is possible to use them for budget needs, to cover deficits, or to finance debt payments. Are we going to benefit from these funds? Sure, yeah. Why? Because they're the cheapest. You can't find cheaper funds on the market than these, but we will try to use funds not to finance deficits, but to pay off debts, or to refinance existing debts. Once again, it is about the funds available to each IMF member state, without any conditions. It's about the cheapest means that can be found, they can retire very quickly. So I ask the Members of Parliament to vote for this law in the day of voting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27470	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Yes, Mr. Vlajko Senic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27471	Dear Madam Ministers, honourable presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I will take this opportunity to take advantage of, in fact, the broader talk of the role that the IMF has played in Serbia since 2000, the situation in which Serbia is today in economic terms and the necessary reforms that the state must do, in the coming period, so that we no longer come into the situation in which we are today. Before I gogo, I'll say something similar to what the minister said during her presentation. It is important to know that the global economic crisis, which took place at the end of 2008, actually began officially and lasted throughout 2009, led to serious reforms in international financial institutions, that the IMF had gained a key place in the fight against the global crisis, although the global crisis of the IMF was becoming a less and less important institution, even asking the question of the justification of its existence, functioning and purpose. Fortunately, because as a world and as a state, we have had previous experience with crises, this time the world has reacted much faster and more decisively, and I think that Serbia has reacted well, for some future time it will show how effective this reaction has been and how effective we will succeed from this crisis to come out. All the parameters, which are economical and very concrete, say that the world is slowly on the way out of the crisis, that in 2010, the year when the world's social product is growing, unlike this year, when the first time, it seems to me, after World War II, is going to happen. It is a trend I believe will be seen in Serbia as well. We're going to have a social product drop of about 4 or 4.5% this year, and next year, in some better version, there could be a year of stagnation or some minimal growth. It is important to say that over the past nine or ten years, and we will hear it for sure today, we have had a lot of criticism about the role of the IMF in reforms in Serbia. There's two things that need to be separated. On the one hand, financially speaking, the role was not so important, but, from the point of view of the credibility of reforms and the message sent to other potential investors, Serbia and the IMF's co-operation was more than important. What the Minister was talking about is something we haven't influenced as a country, but in any case, it's a good opportunity for us to come to significant funds on the international market under the most favourable conditions, far more favourable than any other potential sources of funding. What's important, too, is something beyond our stand-by arrangement and something we won't have in some future period of obligation to repay. After 2000, the first stand-by arrangement, we, then as a federal state, signed, in 2001 at the amount of 200 million special rights to draw and it ended in 2002. In fact, it was this initial support for changes in Serbia and the construction of institutions and Serbia's return to political and, above all, economic flows. By 2005, after that, we had no stand-by arrangement, but we had a so-called extended funding arrangement, during which Serbia withdrew 650 million special rights for three years. The arrangement was paid prematurely in late 2006 and early 2007, which was then a picture of Serbia's good financial situation. After that, according to the Statute of the Four IMF, a post-monitoring programme for Serbia was continued, which proved to be good, as it practically relied on the start of a crisis in Serbia in late 2008. We, it should be said, were certainly the first country in the region to initiate negotiations with the IMF at the end of 2008 on a new stand-by arrangement, because it was already clear that the global financial crisis, which exists, would spill over to Serbia and would be a significant support for the IMF. At that point, we thought that support would be only institutional, advisory and that we could go without financial support to go through this difficult period of crisis. In time, however, we proved that we needed both financial support and a concrete IMF loan, and we first signed a stand-by arrangement in January 2009, amounting to $350m of special drawing rights, in order to make the second revision in May 2009 appear to me to increase that quota to 2.6 billion of special drawback rights or to about 10% of Serbia's social product or 560% of our IMF quota. We've withdrawn 750 million special draw rights so far. What may be more important than all this, the agreement we made with the IMF was the basis for a Vienna initiative or a Vienna deal, which allowed the external exposure of banks in Serbia to remain the same as during the previous year. We all know that the biggest problem for developing countries, which are extremely highly dependent on capital imports, was just a credit drop and a lack of capital. I think it's important to say. Serbian citizens should know that the agreement, which we have signed, has allowed a large number of our commitments to be refinanced, primarily I am talking about private sector obligations, not so much about the state sector's obligations. That's how we affected the economic downturn, probably less than it would have been if it hadn't been for that Vienna deal and the debt refinanced. What do I mean? I want to say that all these agreements, the revisions, the arrangements were from time to time, every two, three, four months, depending on when they were happening, one picture and a passing time how our, above all, financial system works, how the international community looks at the quality of reforms being carried out in Serbia and what it is necessary to do in the future to continue that support. Once again, it was not financially decisive for Serbia, but in any case, it helped to make other investments, foreign, direct or greenfield investments easier to come to Serbia if our co-operation with the IMF institution was shown to be positive. This calls for avoiding the political context of co-operation. I think we're in a situation today where some other countries are using IMF support. I will state the case of Poland, which does not use a stand-by arrangement, but uses another way of funding, too, by withdrawing loans as an economy that is certainly on a far, higher level and level of development than Serbia is. Twenty countries in the world are currently using such a form of arrangement as Serbia is using. I think this arrangement that we have made will show that it may not be necessary for us to withdraw all resources, but it will be very important for us to say, institutional support for those reforms that stand before us. In that sense, it was the third revision of this arrangement and what we expect at the end of this and early next month, a consensus with IMF representatives on what quantity and quality of reforms in Serbia should be implemented in order to get support and to be able to overcome the problem of the deficit that will definitely arise for 2010, because the current model of balance in Serbia is no longer sustainable, we cannot count so much on income from privatisation and cannot count on such a capital inflow. It is very important that these talks continue in this institutional sense and that they represent an international support for reforms Serbia needs to carry out in some future period. I will take the opportunity to say that these are, I would say, three, four key areas of reforms that the government, with clear political support, will have to implement in the next period, which is actually best shown in a World Bank report, which is also done on the initiative of our finance ministry, and on the cost of the World Bank. These are reforms in the pension system, it is a continuation of reforms in education and health, and it is a reform in the social benefits that exists, from Serbia's budget, which are not given through the regular pension system. Of course, I'll give you just one example, probably the hardest area of reform awaits us in the pension system. This retirement rate will lead us to the fact that next year 14% of Serbia's social product must be allocated to pensions. I really don't know all other countries' data by heart, but I guess this is one of the largest percentages that exist in the environment, and probably in the world. We will have to make certain changes that will allow for the proper quantity and quality of pension payments, but in line with Serbia's economic capabilities and in line with the fact that the system must be sustainable. Some analyses say, regardless of what we had to do politically in October 2008, the law that led to the pension increase, that due to later monetary adjustment and the fall of the dinar course in real terms, there may have been a drop in pensions for their users. So these are the things that we should be able to come up with a new basis on which our economy will function, that our fiscal expenditures are consistent with revenues and that, as part of that, during the previous presentation here, we have heard criticism that the upcoming announcement of reform of public sector employees' cuts, that there are ministries that have 20 state secretaries and similar, incorrect information that is not necessarily answered because they are completely incorrect and false, but I think that this is one start of reform in the state sector that is necessary and limiting the number of employees in the state sector is certainly the first step. Some other government may have a chance to do it in a better way, but I'm sure what it seems now, which will appear in the next period, is something that is necessary. What is important, I would point out that thanks to the support of the international community, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance announced the data the other day that 4.5 billion euros of grants have come to Serbia since 2000, it is important, especially in light, to say that constant criticism that changes have not led to capital entry. It is important to know, of course, that in the coming period, we are no longer the country of this degree of poverty that can count on such support from the international community and that we will have to turn to ourselves, look for resources for our growth and progress, and look at a different concept, or save money that we have. That's about one review. What we are considering today is only one good opportunity and the benefit the Serbian government will have from the IMF. It is very good and encouraging to hear from the minister for what purpose these funds will be spent. Therefore, unlike the funds the state receives from the stand-by arrangement, which is in the account of the National Bank exclusively for the strengthening of foreign reserves, although there have been some talks that these funds will be able to be used for the budget, these funds are exclusively used to support the budget and it is good that the government's orientation is such that it is used to refinance existing loans rather than for some new consumption. In any case, we will support this law and citizens should know that this is another support in the series that we have received because our political and economic orientation today is what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27472	Thank you, Mr. Senic. I set a break until 15.00 hours, then Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic will have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27473	Good afternoon, we'll continue work in the afternoon. The word has a master's degree, Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27474	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I would say that the last stay of Madam Minister here was marked with 90 million credits from business banks, where conditions are extremely difficult compared to what we have here as a possibility of using, that in the meantime, in a report from the government's session, we have received information that the government will be in charge of new, additional 120m euros and that it has called a tender, similar to when it was given the opportunity to be in debt with another 90m euros and that the bonds of the Republic of Serbia, its securities of value issued by the Treasury, with 2.2 million this year from the month of February, reached a very significant value which is now 76.6 billion dinars. This means that in just eight months, the state has managed to increase the debt balance by more than 74 billion dinars. So our condition isn't pink at all. This loan, whatever the basis for using the money is ours, conditionally speaking, deposits and membership in the IMF, as special rights to draw, I don't believe it will leave us the possibility of using that money without giving me that money, because it's being given in some other currencies and withdrawing, and we don't take advantage of it. But what I, as a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, can resent the government is not what is owed and by printing securities of value and by taking credit at various prices, but by not taking advantage of the reserves in the tax policy. So the solution for our country is a fairer distribution of what is being created. And that's where the public spending structure starts, and the deficit we're in debt for, the budget, the loans and everything else. It's just that we need to change the incentives. In this country, it must be cheaper for people to invest in jobs rather than speculation, action, property and securities of value. In particular, this country did not take advantage of the opportunity that many use – to tax the financial sector. So we stimulate the financial sector in every way possible, teaching people to make the best money and not to open productive jobs and do production, but to make money on buying apartments, renting, buying shares and keeping securities of value. Nor is VAT taxed on that traffic, Article 25, I will talk about it in the second part, with practical effects, and I think that the most significant part of financial traffic – the National Bank's relations with business banks and charters of values that function in each other, is our big problem. The problem in terms – that banks, instead of giving economics and citizens under more favourable and competitive conditions compared to a closer environment, trade with the National Bank because they have safe income and are not taxed for it. I will give details, but to interest both you and the citizens: In 2008, the National Bank paid business banks per course from last year 124m euros in interest on money, i.e. charters it itself issued and printed. So 124 million euros! If we had taxed only those 124m euros with 0.2%, this country would have a significant 20 billion dinars, which would make its deficit smaller and not be the only state that taxes financial wages, as many countries do. And those who don't want to do it right now, and I'll tell you later on in concrete examples. As an economic theorist, Tobin's tax is known to you as a tax on a kind of financial transaction, a familiar way to correct or correct the disparities in development, which Tobin then meant, that is, to be used in times of crisis to cover the deficit. Something I personally resent to you, Madam Minister, is that you did not engage in the control of public funds and budget users. We have adopted the Budgetary System Act here that has allowed you to significantly tighten control and flow and spending money. The money's got enough, but it's spilling over, and these spill mechanisms are the problem of this country. These spillover mechanisms are not inconceivable, they are known to scientists like you, and I am responsible for saying that it is not the ignorance of the government, I am now not accusing you personally, because you alone cannot do anything – that it is interests or fears that someone's interests are touched by political motives, that is, what is said that this government must last a full term, and how many citizens it costs, you are not interested in it. We're interested, all citizens are interested. I'll give you just a few examples that this country doesn't control money flows. The state is the biggest debtor. Her health care fund owes to wholesalers and pharmaceutical houses. This country owes its public enterprises to contractors. For example, the salaries of the Civil Aviation Directorate and the revenues they make on the sky-control monopoly, which is a state and national resource, are not under your control, nor have they reduced your wages! Ma'am, you've also received an application for this, and I expect those who have sent you an application to respond. For me, the most interesting figure – today is about saving workers in the state administration and it is said that 3,400 will be fired and that there will be 28,000 left. I've been following politicians' statements very closely, reading the expert press, budgets, budget accounts, and I've never seen the number so far that you've admitted that there are 31,400 employees in the state administration. Since that's now 26-digit increase to 28, and we've all been here from all parties saying that this figure from 7,000 to 28, you've justified that figure in one significant part of the collapse of the state community and by taking some responsibility, but we all knew that there were politically created jobs, that's all the president of the state had to say. However, you never admitted that the number of state administration employees exceeds 30,000, and now it turns out that this critical and excessive number should remain a founding state, to tell the story again that one is a systematization and the other is really an employee and that many of the ministers wanted to stay on what is called a systematization as a basis for non-relegation of people. I'm saying that methodologies can't help anything. When a man has a wallet, no matter how high-quality, exclusive manufacturer or cheap, he holds money and bills for paying utility, child's tuition, or war, for example, for credit. He can move into that wallet a salary he receives and his payments filled in for credit and bills he has to pay to the left and right bulkhead, he can hide from himself, but "the debt and the devil always comes for his own." There's no methodology that can help this country show its obligations to the smaller and higher incomes. This may seem so right now, perhaps even for the IMF, but for Serbian citizens, it cannot, because it cannot excuse why it has given up some expectations, why they have been betrayed because they were too large to replace what is called the quality of life. I don't even want to use rougher terms such as poverty, hunger or anything like that, and they would be suited to a large number of Serbian citizens. So the methodology to show the systematization or the real employees, or to show the debts as time and revenue from privatisation below the line, above the line, can't save this country. What's unequivocal is that it's always easy to put a signature on a loan or an agreement, if the state stands behind your signature as a guarantee, stands the Assembly that doesn't quite give the most convincing majority the knowledge that these loans are welcome, but in the end, citizens pay it as employees or unemployed and as buyers, as company owners or otherwise, but in the end, these citizens are above all, and that's why you owe us clean bills and accurate reports here. I'll start with the IMF first. Really, this loan is the cheapest one you've seen yet, but it's a question of whether it's the price you've told us. So, interest is 0.26% at the moment, but for example in Article 4, it says, all the time I'm saying if it's withdrawn, that the funds will be settled from the budget through a National Bank agent, so it says, not only interest, but other associated costs. So, Madam Minister, you were obliged to tell us – yes, 026% is good news, but you should tell this other one, even if you don't know what it is, but tell the box, what it's costs and how much it's going to be, because Article 4 mentions them. You're saying the loan probably won't go away. I think he's gonna have to retire, at least the debt refinance choir, and then you have to tell us if he pulls out -- what's the grace period, that rest period, and how long are the credit payments? I'm not asking by accident. One of the previous loans had a grace period of four and a half years, and the payment was ten years old. One government can't be in debt, another government can come back! You can't play the benefactors by giving us as parents and leaving our children behind our debts! Or, maybe we will, maybe there's a reason to do it, maybe it's infrastructure projects, some long-term insights saying that we need to do it, but we need to have a clear projection of these frameworks, when and how much we're going to pay back and when and how much these loans are going to cost. At the time Mr Dinkic returned the early loan from that third tranche, the loan cost – 4.9% was interest. However, he did so for pre-election reasons, because in September 2006 he shared both a 'cap and a hand' and an epiphany of both the military and health care, and promised the NIP and so on and so on, because while there was a income from privatisation it could have acted like that. And he was doing it at the time of the announced inflow from the sale of MOBI 063 and the sale of Vojvodjanska Banka, and now in this shortage we must really get the most accurate information about every dinar of any debt and real debt. The Serbian Progressive Party has also submitted to you an amendment, which we propose most specifically, that this loan be used at least to cover 90m euros in debt, which costs 900,000 euros only for the cost of withdrawing the loan, which costs the monthly euro, plus a fixed margin of 4.75, which is somewhere around 6% of the current cost of the loan. So, with this favourable loan, you swap that extraordinary set, you release funds for use, credit, economy and citizens, and maybe we'll say that this loan has some purpose. What I object to you as an economic theorist, but I must thank you for explaining the special rights of drag and that it has been introduced by the Second Amendment to the IMF Statute, so I am pleased to read to the citizens a part of the objectives of the IMF Statute, which none of you have wanted to tell the citizens so far, and I am going to do so today with pleasure. The IMF Statute in the objectives of the Fund, under Article 1(1), says: 'The most important objectives of the Fund are: 1) to develop international monetary co-operation; the next point, ''2) to facilitate the expansion and even development of international trade, in order to contribute to the development and maintenance of a high level of employment and real income. '' Have you, gentlemen of the citizens, ever heard that this international financial institution advocates what is our second order priority to our government? We target inflation, monetary stability, the sole goal of which they are subordinated to: both lives, and governments, and the Assembly, and the National Bank, thus experiencing its independence and everything else. So, the objectives of the IMF are not to destroy this country with financial support, but you have thus presented it to the citizens, that all the unpopular measures, which should normally be taken, rather than the superficial way you normally do, but by retaining the basic objective of employment and income, you have not done so before. Now I just want to tell the citizens, and what would the IMF do to us more than what our government needs to do to us? This government, not just you, the overall government, needs everyone for its own area to say whether the measures recommended for that other arrangement are really going to reflect that on this country, to maintain employment and real income, and not that the only goal is to release people, privatization where factories are closed, to close jobs, not to open new jobs, or create conditions for opening new ones, because even with the overall tax policy, the government does not support neither production nor job creation, nor investment in people, but investment in capital and speculation! When I say speculation, I don't mean criminogenics, but speculative capital is clear enough and speculation as such is not to us as a state, at this point, the way out of the crisis. I will read another 4) point of the IMF's objectives where it is said: ''The aim of the International Monetary Foam is to give Member States confidence by making their resources available to them, with adequate security, thus giving them the opportunity to correct the imbalance of their balance of payments without having to resort to measures harmful to national and international well-being. ''It is a book by Mr. Dejan Jovovic – 'International Financial Institutions'; Dr. Oscar Kovac, Dr. Dragana Djuric, Dr. Radovan Vukadinovic. You might challenge any of these names, but this is the translation of the IMF Statute. Do you really behave the way citizens expect you to, and at this point I would say that we are no longer on the verge of monitoring GDP growth, rather than talking about the quality of life that the World Bank, also notorious, began speaking in 1973 in the famous speech of Maknamara, which said that – GDP hides, in fact, very large differences in incomes made in certain countries. I will continue my speech in the part of the application for the word, and now I thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27475	I thank you, too. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Madam Minister, I'm glad to see you here again, but what raises suspicions and upsets among all of us is that you mostly appear here when it comes to borrowings. The last time we saw you in July was when we ratified 360m euros in loans, 90m euros for budget consolidation, for budget deficits, 20m euros for health care and 160m, or 250m for local self-government. This proves to us that it is absolutely right that those who say, and "The fight" has today announced, that because of unfulfilled promises, the Serbian government is drug addictive to foreign loans. That's what all of us MPs are worried about, as well as the citizens of Serbia. Today we have a debate here on the proposal for a law on regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the IMF, under which the right of the Republic of Serbia to, in addition to 346,710,593 special draw rights, i.e. around 542 million, to an additional 45,660,350 special draw rights, or over 65 million dollars, with an interest of 0.26%. It's a good thing we're having this debate today, and it's a good thing, although you've given a hint that these funds may be withdrawn, but I repeat once again, only your presence is a guarantee that the Republic of Serbia will also withdraw these funds. However, it is not good, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we did not have a debate here before we entered into negotiations with the IMF, that in a democratic debate we can hear you, your argument, so that we too can deliver our opinions – what we think about the loan. The loan is 2,900,000 euros, of which 788m have already been withdrawn. You are now in the process of negotiations with the IMF to meet the conditions they set for the withdrawal of the rest of the loan, amounting to about 2,100,000 euros, where one tranche will go through this year and the rest in 2010. Those funds are higher than, like, 1.39%. The assembly is a place where, or not, consent is given to such a kind of negotiation, where the laws regulate the state's obligations towards creditors. During these negotiations, Mrs Dragutinovic, you were obliged to inform this assembly. The fact is that as part of the conditions, you are trying to meet the conditions and reduce consumption, that after long and hard negotiations you have joined the process of reducing employees in the state administration, 2,800 workers who are in a permanent working relationship and 600 employees on other grounds. We're all worried that none of us know the effects of such rationalization, because you didn't go to the public with the numbers of the effects of such rationalization. However, there is another problem. There is no agreement in the government itself – whether it should be done with reduction, rationalisation or with an increase in GDP. Many of the government itself, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic's advisers themselves, see the only solution in increasing GDP. Whatever it is and whatever you decide the price of these measures will pay the most citizens of Serbia. The facts today are that the budget deficit for the first nine months is 74 billion dinars. With the 2009 budget rebalance, here, in this room, in April of the month, we struck the 2009 budget deficit at 70 billion, 400 million dinars. There is a difference of three billion and 800 million dinars, where the opposite of the Constitution and the Budget Law entered into excessive debt, into an excessive minus. The DSS has issued a statement about the violation of the Budget Law, the violation of the Constitution, because only here can you get consent to this minus, and despite the fact that we issued the statement, we will seek the responsibility of those who have violated the Law. The expectation of experts is that the lack of money in the state register will exceed 130 billion dinars. Your projection was 50 in October, it was 50 in December, it was 70 in April, to get to 74 billion and 200 in the first nine months, or January-September, and the question is how far over the budget deficit will be by the end of the year. The estimate of economic experts is that the figure will reach 130 billion dinars. Madam Minister, today is October 13th, the budget rebalance for the current year has not been received. Negotiations with the IMF are still ongoing. By the end of the month, we should know some results, conditionally, and by 1 November you should put the draft budget for next year in the assembly procedure. Obviously, these deadlines are out of your hands and you don't want to honor them, even though the law obliges you to do so. As much as anyone who respects the law. No wonder then, Mrs. Dragutinovic, you don't keep your word. I will remind you only of what you said in the 2008 budget rebalancing debate, as well as the 2009 budget. (This was extracted from the stenographic notes. ) In October 2008, you said: "No matter what the global economic crisis, GDP growth will be 7-7.5%. It is a dynamic rate in international exchanges. The global financial crisis, simply because Serbia is not an isolated island, must hit Serbia's coast. But what's, say, recession for Serbia, that's 4% of GDP growth. It seems to me that the lower limit of growth is next year." In December of that same year, after only two months, you said, "The deficit of 1.5% of GDP cannot be greater. This budget proposal hits the budget deficit at 1.5% and it cannot be greater than 1.5%''. That's what you're understood. The reality is that now the budget deficit is 4.5% of GDP, and GDP is down by about 5%. The DSS parliamentary group indicated its unrealistic projection when discussing the budget in October, December, April, providing data on the decline in production, the drop in exports, imports, internal liquidity, as well as the difficult conditions for business operators. We referred to the pool of funds, the bank interest, the high interest rate. At that point, she was 17.75%. A few days ago, I hope we had an impact on that, too, it was reduced to 11%. We have proposed measures that some have translated into legislative proposals, pointing to a growing economic crisis. You then claimed that the economic crisis is a chance for Serbia. Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister of the government, even said the crisis would make investors rush into Serbia, that Serbia should be seen as an island that will not wave the crisis and that this is Serbia's great developmental chance. Our critical views, during the 2009 budget debate in April, on economic policy and state in the country, have been characterised as malicious, as if we, rather than the Government, promised to grow economic activity, 200,000 new jobs, increase living standards and a thousand-euro action. The fact is that the situation in Serbia is different from what you promised the citizens and what you said here. Incomes are lower by 80 billion than planned in the first nine months, estimated to be lower by 115 billion at the end of the year. Regardless of these indicators, public spending records execution in full, and capital investments are only 20% of projected. Our MP group has repeatedly pointed out that this budget is wasteful, not developmental, we have suffered criticism from you, although these data show who was right. Confirmations of this poor condition were made to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and representatives of the Serbian Association of Managers at a meeting held on Thursday (October 8th). The general conclusion is that the state is the generator of the crisis and that state enterprises have a huge debt to the economy, that internal claims have exceeded the amount of two billion dinars, that the number of those who are unable to carry out commitments to banks is growing, that the number of operators has increased to 9.7%, and in the population to 3%, that production is recording the decline, that the number of unemployed is increasing, and hence the standard of citizens. Jurij Bajec, adviser to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, reported that we have 85 pensioners and 45 unemployed or 1,850,000 working people with 1,650,000 pensioners and 765,000 unemployed on 100 employees. Since the beginning of the year, about 100,000 people have been out of work, 63,021 companies are in a blockade, with around 150,000 people working there. It is certain that these companies will go bankrupt and that these workers will lose their jobs. Instead of the 200,000 jobs you promised during the presentation of the government's programme and in the pre-election campaign, as a result of this government's poor work, we have, it is certain, 250,000 who will be out of a job. Most economic experts, or financial experts, suggest an increase in external debt. Estimates say it will only rise by about five billion euros this year alone. The debt of the state is now 7.2 billion, and businesses are 14.2 billion. If the negotiations end successfully with the IMF we will be in debt for 2.9 billion more, from the World Bank we will get a 214m-euro loan from the European Bank for the Development of 600m euros, you will be in debt to 120m euros from commercial banks, you are in negotiations with the Russians for a billion-euro loan, it is certain that this year we will receive 350m euros. You represent each ratification of our borrowing as a confirmation of this government's successful economic policy. For you, the folk is not a good friend. You owe every new loan to the citizens of Serbia. Currently, per capita, each citizen of Serbia is 2,893 euros long. National Bank Governor Jelasic suggested the debt could increase by 50% this year and exceed 40% of GDP; at the beginning of the year it was 25.6% of GDP, and on the first days of September 31.6% of GDP. The consequences of this and this debt will be felt and paid for by many generations. National Bank Governor Jelasic suggested that this year we will end up with nearly 1.5 billion euros in additional debt. He says, "It all happens in a situation where we have even less investment and we have additional borrowing to do unless anything changes." He also warned that if there is no reduction in the budget deficit, the Serbian economy in the medium and longer term will be in trouble, which means that we will also have high spending without cover and high debt, and high tax burdens for citizens and businesses. It's obvious from all this that the situation is very bad, even though you're trying to present it as good, that you're working in the interest of the citizens. If the interest of citizens is that you increase your debt, which for you is the greatest success if you ratify a loan agreement, that's all you can boast about. I think that, and I share, hopefully, the opinion of most MPs in this House is not good and it is bad for the citizens. With this government, that is all we can expect, because this government is not a fruit of common programming goals, but primarily of interest brought together by the ruling coalition parties, which is to implement a policy created by tycoons and foreign ambassadors, and where Boris Tadic is both president and prime minister. For Serbia, the only way out is for this government to leave immediately and for Serbian citizens to choose in the new elections those who will really represent their interests, to keep what they have come up with, not to make false promises. This government, as the people expect, should resign as soon as possible. That's better for all of them. And in the end, Mrs. Dragutinović, you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27477	Time's up, so the end's faster than you hoped...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27478	... University professor, what's the message to your students after all this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27479	Thank you very much. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27480	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, here is one of the series of fast laws of the Serbian government, so only seven members, but the debt, public debt, is increasing. Of course, it's increasing by hundreds of millions of dollars. First of all, to clarify whether it is a potential borrowing, this bill bears the title of the "Proposal of Law on Regulation of the Republic of Serbia to the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of allotment of special rights to draw the approved resolutions of the Board of Governors No. 64-3 No. 52-4." When it's read, it doesn't mean anything. However, this bill is very harmful because it implies additional borrowing. Even the Government itself, the Proposer acknowledges this in the text of the law (Article 3.) ''The funds referred to in Article 1 of this Law will be used for the purpose of financing the budget deficit and refinanceing the debt of the Republic of Serbia. '"It will be secured in the budget for the current year, therefore, is related to the payment of this arrangement. The second chapter explains: "As the use of allocated funds implies a special vision of the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the rules governing public debt, this creates a new financial obligation with the Fund and increases public long-term financial commitments towards abroad." You said interest is 0.26%, but let's see what it's really about. As is known, old Yugoslavia has started membership in the Fund with a $60m quota. That was somewhere from 0.75% of the total quota. The latest SFRJ quota, following their general audit, was 918 million special draw rights or about $1.2 billion. So it was three times the current quota we have. Of course, there was something different at the time, which was 0.68% of all quotas in the Fund. According to the key adopted by the IMF in December 1992, the SRJ belonged to 335 million special draw rights, which amounted to around 0.33% of the total quota collection. The SFRY concluded a total of 12 stand-by arrangements by the end of 1990, withdrawing a total of about 3.9 billion special draw rights or about $5 billion. That's when borrowing was high. But you set a record. Why? Because Serbia's external debt is currently higher than the SFRY external debt. He's over 30 billion dollars. According to official estimates, the National Bank of Serbia has exceeded 21 billion 977m euros. What's the problem? The problem is that the old Yugoslavia had more than 20 million inhabitants, and Serbia has eight million inhabitants. Therefore, we now need to pay a significantly higher sum, and three times less. Who's going to be left with those debts? These debts will remain for future generations that come, regardless of the favourable interest rate and anything else, borrowing in this sense is very bad and very negative. So the external debt is getting bigger and bigger! We see that there is a certain conflict in the matter of the government. Governor Jelasic said it is necessary to avoid borrowing from the IMF. On Monday, September 7th, news agencies transferred, numerous media reported, Governor Jelasic openly said that debt should be avoided at all costs from the IMF. For what? We'll find out later. Something no one mentioned - data on special drag rights has been posted on the IMF's official website. Also, a specific table has been presented. There are percentages, there are quotas. Imagine, on this side there is Kosovo. There is Kosovo as an IMF member, we all know that. For them, they provided for a certain amount of special towing rights. Serbia follows Kosovo! Why do we co-operate with an institution that considers Kosovo and Metohija an independent state? Why are we doing this? Could we have somehow persuaded the Russians or the Chinese or anyone else to give us a favourable loan, if we had to borrow? Instead, what did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? She sold NIS to the Russians and made a $700m debt, so, in a break, from sales to the moment the Russians entered the board of directors. Debts to state-owned enterprises were deliberately written off, loans were deliberately raised with pointless interest rates, a burden on NIS to harm Russia, and there was an increase and now, somewhere around 700 million dollars. It's just amazing! It's a kind of deception, a fraud that is unacceptable in international relations. Let's get back to the special tow rights, 'cause I'm guessing people don't even know what that is. It's a certain money, a kind of "pulture," it's an instrument of financial destruction, similar to that financial derivative of the CMO, which began the crisis in the West and the United States. What was the purpose of the introduction? The purpose of introducing special rights was to increase the fund's financial potential. Because of the increase in the volume of world trade, the expressed liquidity of more countries, the lack of gold in monetary reserves, threatened the dangers of developing countries, right, and the IMF had to do something about it. It's a fairy tale. They, in fact, wanted to replace the golden base and therefore special rights to drag some theorists call it "paper Gold". As much as "paper gold," you'll see he's one of the basic instruments of causing global inflation. So it's the fictitious money. When I said it was a kind of "pulse currency," what was it about? From 1981 to 2010, special draw rights consisted of the US dollar, it was a German mark, now the euro, a Japanese yen, a pound of sterling, means Great Britain and was a French franc, between 1996 and 2000. Now there's an American dollar, a euro, a Japanese yen and a pound of sterling. The percentage of dollars is convincingly the highest – 45%, the euro from 2001 to 2005 – 29%, Japanese yen – 15%, sterling pounds – 11%. From 2006 to 2010, American dollar, current – 44%, euro – 34%, June – 11%, pound sterling – 11%. Why am I undermining this that the largest interest in this kind of "pulse currency" is? You've probably heard that there's a danger of a dollar disappearing from the world stage as a kind of planetary currency. For what? Because states that use a dollar in mutual trade, related to the purchase and sale of oil, have put forward a proposal, including China, Brazil, Russia, and even the Gulf countries, to get the dollar out of these transactions. What would that mean? That would mean that both the U.S. and the dollar would be in big trouble, that practically a dollar would disappear from the world stage. There's a major danger here, and the dollar's participation is the largest, as I said, almost 50% in special rights. So, on their part, the United States threatened that this could make political relations worse within international relations between countries that threaten to move to another reserve currency, including Russian laundry and other coins, so that experts agree that the introduction of new currencies would only speed up trade, and some, for God's sake, charge me with a dollar for causing the global crisis. Very clear messages have arrived from both the Russian Federation and China. What further problems do we have when it comes to special learning rights? We have cases from American practice. For example, Congressman Ron Paul openly criticises the introduction of special drag rights, which were introduced far in 1969. It believes that the recent G20 summit has concluded that an increase in the special rights fund is very wrong and very bad, and that such practice can lead to global inflation and an even greater global economic crisis. We talked about borrowing many times at both the IMF and the World Bank. We have made it very clear and precise why it is wrong to be in charge of these institutions, but I don't think we've exposed the role of the IMF and the World Bank to the end. Former World Bank official John Perkins, who has also done his job for the IMF in time, wrote a book called "The Confession of an Economic Paid Killer". In this book, it describes the methods used by the World Bank, which is the main objective of their operation primarily in countries rich in natural resources. His task was, as an official of the World Bank, to target the country, say, Mexico, Panama and so on, to make it maximumly dependent on international financial institutions. So they need to be given as large loans as possible, but to enable them to create a situation in which they will not be able to repay them. Something like that that's done with credit cards in all countries, including us. Probably citizens with credit card experience know very well that they can hardly pay off those debts, even some raise loans to pay off credit card debt, which is just amazing. John Perkins very detailedly described the method of work of the World Bank, and then cited several data that if these economically-paid killers fail to lend enough land, they fail to persuade their leadership, since there is no more money to pay off debts, to give up their natural resources, e.g. after the economically-paid killers enter the scene of the real hit men. He cited two examples, one is the Equator, the other is Panama, where the leaders of those countries were killed. John Perkins worked there for the benefit of the World Bank. When his operation failed, two leaders were killed, according to his book, by the American CIA. There was no doubt about what it was about. Since the current economic crisis has been widely discussed here, as I see that many have reported that, including one government minister, the economic crisis is slowly ending, it might be good to recall what the world's most famous theorists have been saying about all this. "The Economic Crisis," he wrote in 1902, Senator Richard Barton in his text "The Financial Crisis and the period of industrial and commercial depression" – "it occurs most often where credit is in the highest use. Credit as trust is always a matter of faith and represents the greatest kind of debt. '" So, I think this sentence is very clear. If that's not clear, we can explain another case. I mentioned a financial derivative of the CMO. What's this about? The too smart Bush government to ensure its victory in certain elections made in 2004, a sort of state plan, which was meant to allow all US citizens to buy a house or apartment, buy a car and so on, so on, the fulfillment of the American dream. What was the problem? The problem is that the citizens were too in charge, that some had no history of paying off loans and banks simply didn't want to lend them loans. At that point, the government forced certain banks to start issuing a new financial derivative -- to share loans plus infinitely, and the state would allegedly be behind it all. What did the United States come up with? There was a financial collapse, only for one reason - because of greed. One of the officials of the leading banks in the U.S., his employee was unable to separate from the gambling table in Detroit, where he was spending a lot of money to inform him that his bank was failing. It's just that people didn't want to believe it. The aim of this above-mentioned Bush policy and the basic ideas that led to the introduction of financial derivatives and allowed further borrowing of its citizens was to ensure that around 40,000 "majors", who are not in favour of the Republican party, provided a roof over their heads. And he offered about $2.4 million in tax loans. Let's see what happened to America's largest bankCity Bank. At one point in time, theCity Bank had $11 in loans for one dollar of capital, a real one. That was in 2003. However, in 2008, the same dollar had 56 dollars in loans. What happened? At the end of 2008, only 2% of the value of the capital "City Bank", not 20% as in 2003, was sufficient to lead to bankruptcy. What happened to "Leman Brothers," we all know, how they failed. Another interesting piece of information, too. Most often when it comes to the origins of various financial derivatives, banking inventions and so on, hedge funds are mentioned tax advances, the Canary Islands, etc. But the real truth is that the three largest seats of the world's hedge funds are British crown possessions, among other things, the island of Man and two other islands that are crown property. So, they're not the formal factical territory of the United Kingdom, but they're under the direct rule of the British Crown, so British royal families. Now, here are the largest funds that have contributed to the world's economic crisis. Anyway, borrowing is not good, and especially not this much borrowing. The average Serbian family currently owes $15,000. These debts will increase, interest will arrive, regardless of whether it's a favourable arrangement, as you say, at an interest rate of 0.26%. It's also a new borrowing. The question arises – when citizens lose their jobs, what will they repay the debt from?- I'm sorry. They're in charge of private banks, so they can buy a car, take a licking or take a loan, so they can buy an apartment or a house again. It's supposed to be back for 30 years. It's a serious debt. I think the state should come to its senses, to realize that it's better to owe less than more. If the government's representatives don't want to think about themselves or us, let them think about future generations that are coming, because that will be their obligations, increased by that interest rate. I don't think it's good, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the difficult situation, has to look at production a little bit, see how to revive production, have some real value, not just take credit. Credits are an advantage on a short path, and later they are one difficulty that a person cannot easily realize and repay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27481	Thank you, Mr. Alexich. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, Forward Serbia, the DSS and the SRS, as well as an independent MP, Mr Vladan Batic, who is now getting the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this law refers to regulating Serbia's obligations to the IMF. Yesterday, we heard very promising hints from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy. According to him, Serbia will reportedly emerge from the economic crisis next 2010 and a better life for Serbian citizens after Mladjan Dinkic begins in 2011. It's based on the principle of "not a smoother donkey to green grass." This reminds us of Slobodan Milosevic's time and the claim that sanctions will act incentivically on some branches of the economy, that Serbia will be able to feed, warms up all over Europe. Of course, if more citizens get those promised 1,000 euros on behalf of free actions -- there's a better life for Serbian citizens. It would be better if Mladjan Dinkic explained to us that, according to his ministry's regulation, I mentioned this today, a man named Stevan Moldovan, the bankruptcy manager of Agroziv, has charged 250,000 euros and has yet to charge another 500,000 euros. So 750,000 euros for a job that can be done maximum in a year. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, remember this and ask ourselves, what kind of country do we live in when one man earns more than one surgeon, professor, distinguished, respected, for life? So, is this the story of social justice, the socially responsible government? Let the money be taken from him immediately, to make folk kitchens! Well, we have information that 500,000 people in Serbia are starving, here's a TV campaign every day, 500,000 hungry in Serbia, and a man 'neither onion eaten nor onion smelled' should earn 750,000 euros. Leave him 7,500 euros, this is nice to take and share with those who cry for bread. Serbia is on its way to borrowing. Every day we hear stories about new debts, about new loans. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, were in Russia. The Russians are asked to share, or you spoke to representatives of Russia, however, a billion euros, here or there, it doesn't matter, but it is, it is. How much is Serbia's debt -- over 20 billion, 22 billion? Who's gonna pay it back?- I'm sorry. Our descendants, our children, our grandchildren. Are we leaving that for them? Is that the way to their happy future? The IMF determines the conditions. And, now, when citizens look at the controversy that will come out of the crisis and how the IMF's request will be resolved, nothing is clear to anyone anymore. The governor talks one thing, the government talks the other. Inside the government, you've had a controversy with your colleagues about whether the increase in VAT, whether the reduction in public spending, how many people should be fired, like horns in a bag, is not known who drinks or who pays! And there are tens of thousands of people in the judiciary, education, municipal administrations, in health care, in the cold and waiting, in doubt, in fear, in fear of losing their jobs, whether their families will come to the brink of the beggar stick, and so on. And it's up to some next round, because this is like a game without borders, like a Mexican series. Then next year the IMF will come again, then there will be great controversy again – what are we going to do now, who are we going to fire? I guess it's also clear to the birds on the branch that without producing new values, without creating new incomes, one country can't live, it can't be debt-free and it can't fire all its workers. You have cities where no one works anymore. Go south to Serbia: Babusnica, Bela Palanka, Lebane, Major, Žitoraj, Kursumli, there is nothing to do, there everything has grown into thorns and weeds. They're not worth this story. We need to go through production to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27483	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27484	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, who are watching this transfer, watching the minister alone in the ranks where ministers sit, we might think that the financial situation, or 'casa state', is in a dramatic state, and even by the looks of the minister, we see a person who does not radiate with optimism, but with great concern. We had a minister here the other day who came in like a cowboy, with all the water and military and civilian faces, shouting, but what we were used to is answering the questions of the MPs and some of their dilemmas. You keep your mouth shut this time and it increases my concern and concern, aside from party divisions, political points – what will happen to this country? It is true that all of you in the government in 2008 said that this crisis would please the state of Serbia. It is true that you were saying, what my colleague Radulovic has done here very nicely, about some percentages of growth in production and growth in economy and employment. It is also true that yesterday, as a vice-president of the government says that we are almost leaving the government in the spring, there may be elections then, so that's why he's saying it. The other speaks – in 2011, we MPs here fight as much as we can, as far as we know and know, but all together, what the people say – the dark hat! So, in the people, in the citizens, literally, the situation is very critical. According to the data, there are 300,000 malnourished children, 500,000 starving people, even on one television with a national frequency, I don't know if they take it seriously or as some new reality show, they need a man to report that he's starving, only then would the hungry get to eat, Madam Minister. Soon there was coin with Serbs – no problem, now it is – no money! With as much knowledge as I have, don't mind, Madam Minister, if it isn't exactly at the level you expect, I expect you to answer some questions -- I'd like to remind you, if you follow the meetings of the Assembly, I've already asked you a question on Tuesday, I hope you've already received that question. You'll need some time and data, and most of all, it seems to me, human and civic courage to answer my question that I asked on Tuesday, among other things, as finance minister, which is actually a well-intentioned proposal – where to find the money. I'm saying there's money in this country, there's money, enough not to make debts and new loans. But that means probably the government's downfall and the arrest of people at the top of the government. Let me remind you of what I asked on Tuesday – four people from the closest environment of the President of the Republic, Mrs Dragutinovic, and their private companies have received 43 billion dinars since 2005! At the time, the euro rate was between 75m and 80m euros, which is over 500m euros. If they were legally doing business, if they were legally earning so much income, you shouldn't be ashamed, not all of us, not all of us, and not all the economists of this country and businessmen, but to invite these people – Mr. Shaper, Mr. Krstic, Mr. Gilas, Mrs. Milic Delević-Gilas, I apologize, which I must say, I still believe in your expertise, most sincerely telling you, and to give you all of you in the government a lecture – as the money is being made. If someone with 11 employees in four years can make an income of over 20 billion dinars, why doesn't the government set up an agency or two or three agencies, finally to make some agencies useful to this people, by 11 employees and earn 500m euros, Madam Minister?- I'm sorry. All I'm saying is it's not political propaganda, I didn't make this up or my party invented it, nobody invented it, it says on the official website of the Agency for Economic Registers. I recommend that Serbian citizens who watch this take a pen and paper and write:. All this stuff I'm saying is on that website. The truth, Madam Minister, is what causes me to feel cold and doubt that the companies mentioned, and this is about the "Multigroup", "Meken Erikson", "Uverzal McKenn" and "New Communications", as it stands on the websites of these companies, have recently been public enterprises, state-owned enterprises, companies, whose, at least so should be, owners of all Serbian citizens. One of these, at this time, a year ago, expressed a 120m-euro profit increased citizens' services by 63%. None of you from the government moved a finger! Basically, I suspect now that this profit and that capital, even though you've brought it to me, some regulation in the government that all public enterprises have to invest in the budget because of this crisis, I doubt that illegally these funds, the money of the citizens, have been poured into their private pockets! If these people were doing business legally, legitimately, if this is all by law, I repeat, that they need you all in the economic part of the government, you, Mr. Economy Minister, to give lectures, to bring them here for direct transfer from this National Assembly Hall, so that we can all, together, all of us 250, sit down and sign and propose them for the Nobel Prize from the economy. At the end of your presentation, with your approval, I will approach and give you this paper, and all of this you can, I hope you didn't know this until now, and that you will introduce what Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković said, and it seems to me to be called, she is an economist – financial discipline. That's what I'm saying: "financial discipline" slightly. Good Serbian citizens understand what I'm talking about and what it's called in civilized countries, where the degree of corruption is at some civilized level! Since there is a new information law, not to cause any problems for you either, or the Public Service, which is also tied up here and involved with these people, so the Public Service paid by Serbian citizens, and many are half the pensions paid for this public service annually. I'm telling you, I'm gonna hand it to you, and you try, let me say, financially, to discipline some people, or resign. You will have the sympathy of all Serbian citizens. Like this, without having to draw contempt and hatred, maybe neither blame nor debt, because I'm saying this another time, and no one to deny it. Where's the Special Prosecutor now? Where's the D.A.? Where's Tomo Zoric? Where are those people? Is this true or should this website be abolished by the Agency for Business Registers, because it disinforms citizens, including me, who am not a graduate economist but I can read both Latin and Cyrillic, as well as most Serbian citizens. We are witnessing as much as yesterday, and today it was in the media, in professional media, these are your fellow economists, Boris Begovic and others, I think that this publication is called "Fox", that a public company buys shares from a private company, but at a loss, without government approval. Do you know about that? Have you heard of it? - "Srbigas" buys, I think this company is called "Informatics" and that the stock after buying from the public company dropped 30%! So that's the only way to make the losses! If it were a private company and these 'businessmen', under the name of these four people, they only did business with private businesses, who would have anything to do with private businesses, so let them watch what their interest is and how they will pass. But, public enterprises, one director has already checked in and puts it on the director, he says – it's true, everything was done without a tender! And he kept working like that for another year and a half. He says it was the previous director, from the previous ruling furniture. What must be of interest to the citizens of Serbia? What do they care who was previously in power, who was the director of that public enterprise? They want citizens to know where their money is, especially in the situation, Madam Minister, when, I repeat, 300,000 children are malnourished. We who are 50 years old and older are no harm for a year, not two, not three, not five, to feed worse, but those who are six or seven years old, those who are on the threshold of puberty, that unquality food for a few months or, God forbid, a few years old, will never be able to make up for it again. Is anyone thinking about it? So, what bothered you last time we asked the IMF for results and demands to come here too, so we could take responsibility together... Now, as promised, I'll hand this to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27485	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. The time has elapsed for your parliamentary group. The word is from Mrs. People's MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27486	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. My colleague Markicevic has just confirmed that it was necessary to use the reserves in the tax policy before deciding on any type of borrowing and to manage the public funds of all cash flows, starting with budgets. I'll remind everyone here, there was a lot of noise when we talked about it. I have just had an amendment in front of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, that according to the Public Procurement Act, all companies operating through public funds must make purchases. You refused that amendment. If you hadn't refused it, it wouldn't have happened today if someone were to defend themselves that these and such purchases allowed someone to earn unimaginable amounts of money today, because they weren't public procurement. Because you, as someone in front of the state responsible for agreeing to these public procurements, would have to share your responsibility. And if you were to share it, you would not have allowed the triangle - power, money and politics, so harshly and explicitly, from Djelic to this day, to become a symbol of success! That's what this country and this society are going to cost long-term and what we all have to fight! In one part of it, my colleague slightly and unwarrantedly resented that you had no optimism. Why do I say it inexcusable? I think we all need to have optimism and not all of us can get involved in that Dinkic category – that he is one of the few who has: expertise and energy and efficiency. In self-evaluation, it is possible, but I think if citizens are to evaluate his statement yesterday, that citizens should be given good news, in fact, it should mean – people do not need such authority in which they are told the hollows of the good news, but should do what they are obliged to do. I couldn't find the information I heard yesterday in the paper anywhere today, in a statement by Mr Dinkic, which is – that 760m euros of unspent privatisation money will allow us to cover the deficits. It hasn't been mentioned for a long time whether there's anything left of that money, and we all know that they've been spent mostly on winning elections, or what economists call "public spending". What I am interested in and citizens should be interested in, is a kind of recognition of the wrong policy both the government and the National Bank that Mr Dinkic announced yesterday, believing that sincere recognition will also mean forgiveness by citizens. One is contained in a sentence -- that the state will slowly withdraw from the financial market to reduce margins. In that statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, not an individual, but a Deputy Prime Minister, he is therefore someone who represents the 126 votes of the majority here, and the entire government, the claim has been officially made that the margins are well increased and due to the government, because she is a credit user, I think this is the 90 million final borrowing, which I ask you to really deprive yourself of, and to that extent, withdraw funds from the International Fund, and to replace the 6% interest interest by 0.26%. But what is devastating for all of us is that the Government and the National Bank are correcting each other's mistakes and over our backs! Mr. Jelasic, in front of the National Bank, claims that the government is making his job difficult and that he must run a restrictive monetary policy, and it costs a tremendous amount, because Mr. Jelasic is someone who creates conditions by his restrictive policy that currently business banks hold 154 billion dinars in securities of value or 1.66 billion euros. So, business banks are holding 1.66 billion euros worth of paper! And not only is that money not credited to the economy, it costs 124m euros to this country! So 50% more than the government's loan, 90 plus 45 is 130 and a few million, which is the price of a useless monetary policy that has neither contained inflation, nor led to stable prices, or stable conditions of commitment, or cheaper loans! What's the government doing? Since this and such policy, Governor Jelasic, has collected every loan and enormously increased interest, the government is now subsidising interest on loans provided by business banks, and the government is promoting them from budgets that fill everyone, it only subsidises, touches or pays part of the interest. What's the big deal? They pay citizens, the government pays, but banks always stay protected. So, from the interest that gives credit users to the full market – the government does. What did the financial sector deserve such protection in this country? And whether it's the only activity that needs to be forced at this time, if it's one of the few branches that's made a significant income in the last year, and it's coming true this year. Who in this state is the one in charge, responsible, and not the government, and is not the governor, to tax financial activity, but not by withdrawing the banks, but by encouraging them with a smart fiscal policy to invest in the economy? Is it the other government and the other governor or is it someone we're waiting for, waiting for Godo, while the economy collapses and the citizens suffer. You have to understand, as much as you ignore, the press conferences of the Serbian Progressive Party, the data we present, as much as you keep quiet about the data provided by Mr. Markicevic, as crazy as we pretend not to know that the golden rain for bankruptcy managers is provided by "laws and actions of these people" and by part of these people in this government, two or more years ago – that not all defences against very well-founded remarks and evidence that we present is to be ignored, silenced and uninformed. Today, Mr Ostojic mentioned "Serbia TV" and said very nicely – that it is not the first job of Serbian TV, as a sports channel, to broadcast games, but could publish the results of these matches. That's how the gentlemen at RTS tell us that we need to convey congregation events, to give copies of what we've been talking about. In these acts as long as someone else decides to place these people directly or indirectly, you won't hear what the real problem is, which is why we all suffer. - We don't have much power, except for this public word that we have, that we use it responsibly, and that we make the right arguments. You have all the power! That power is not for the purpose of the election cycle. That power is for the purpose of our better life! Many of you, not personally, for example, Mr Dinkic has even done a useful job by one agency, which has recorded 200 useless procedures, mostly sublegal acts, which make us extremely cost-effective in the economy and in obtaining a certain documentation, valorized as the work of his associate, earlier in the work, now the chairman of the Management Board of the Agency for Business Registers, Mrs Andrea Marusic, as a credit, well, they have established this'steal section', that these 200 procedures are useless, noting the fact that it needs to know the public – that the NAED agency is precisely called the National Alliance for Local Economic Development, published 'gray Book' with those 200 useless procedures, one of which even gave birth to fruit, which is made it easier to obtain a 'tax identification number'. Well, in this country, does everything have to be the subject of marketing and political points, or does someone have to do the job they're getting paid for? And, worst of all, this research is now being used as a criterion to help fire extra employees in the state administration. This is the highlight of cynicism, where those who have long and long ago prepared round tables, published magazines, praised and welcomed such a decision, forgetting that the Law on the work of these people, as well as many others, must treat the assessment of success in the way it works for all public enterprises and state administration. I understand by circumstances that these evaluations are being conducted years ago and you cannot now evaluate someone with a 'unit' in one month to quickly implement what is called your discharge savings, which, let me repeat, does not ask you for an IMF, because it advocates employment, as it says in the Statute, but you do not want to get into savings, but you are going by the easiest method – either sign credit, or fire people, so those who are not yours to replace yours. You can't do Article 179. To abuse the labour law and use it so that people who have, for example, worked 20 years instead of with 20 severances, fire four profits because this article 179 tells you that if someone does not have the necessary knowledge and ability, they can be fired from the employer and thus reportedly save this country!- I'm sorry. But can I expect responsibility from you, even from you personally? By misusing Article 144. Rules of Procedure, July 29th, we were left without being able to say one word to all of your answers when we talked about those 90 million borrowings in the business banks. All in all, this law was not passed at the end of July, as it should have been, but because of the guessing of the Information Act, it was published on September 3rd in the "Official Messenger" and in Article 3 you generously accepted the amendment – that, on behalf of the Government, you would deliver contracts to the National Assembly within 30 days of the conclusion to inform the National Assembly about the loan. You didn't close the contract?- I'm sorry. We haven't won those contracts yet! What was the rush to call a tender, discuss it, and there's still no contract?- I'm sorry. Is there a way to respect this home and make an argument for this law, ma'am, a little bit wider than you do in the press interviews? That's what the other ministers do. Instead of explaining here the details of the special rights to draw, availability, which depends on the withdrawal, indicative costs, you gave us an explanation of the basic legal institutes and individual solutions on page 4. I ask all my colleagues, the citizens will believe me, that you no longer provide us with such explanations as are prescribed by the members of the law, but does not write a member. So, not a single word of reason, repeats what the law says on page 4!- I'm sorry. Please, although this is not the expensive paper, the Kunsdruk, criticised by the Prime Minister, but 250 MPs, 250 pages as many members of the Committee and others, spare us what is not an explanation but a repetition of the text of the law. Respect us, explain and exit with precise data. Be within your jurisdiction, listen to the opposition's advice on controlling the money flows that there is enough here, or indeed some other solutions will be the only possible option. We know you agree to everything! And to lay off, and to new debts, only not to call an election! But even if you delay them to the regular ones, they can't go on forever, and this kind of superficial and irresponsible approach to the state register, to the citizens and to us who represent the citizens, they won't really surprise you. We cannot vote for this law, not only because this agreement is expensive, but because it is one of the measures that is chaotic in what is called 'expansively restrictive monetary policy and fiscal policy of the government'. For this reason, the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote for the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27487	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27488	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, which explained to us by Madam Minister that we should be able to withdraw loans that are far cheaper than others, is once again shown as another rescue solution to our accumulated problems. It's just, it's not been a month since this assembly started this year, that we don't have any law on the agenda that essentially ratifies an international loan contract, whether it's a loan to build certain infrastructure facilities, whether it's loans that will fill our own, I think, too many holes in the budget. For months back, we've been talking about how the loan we're supposed to get from the IMF is going to help us get through our problems and fill in certain budget gaps. Last year, the government announced that, under the previous agreement, it would try to cut its expenditure and its public spending to balance the budget and not to have too much budget deficit. Of course, the story lasted as long as it was an IMF delegation in Serbia, and after that it began to rework on the old and the strong promise, and I remember that this promise was in December of last year, that the government would reduce its public spending, even the number of employees, that until today did not move to Yota. Let's remind ourselves of all the promises that came from the ruling coalition, which via the Deputy Prime Minister for Economy, Mr Dinkic, through you. Since October last year, you started talking about how the new 2009 budget will be based on GDP growth of 6.5%. After that, with an IMF warning, that percentage was adjusted to 3.5%, later on to two, so we heard from Mr Dinkic in April that it would be zero. The current forecasts, again from the same actors and from you, range from minus three percent, and serious economists said at the beginning, and today they stand behind it, that the decline of the social gross product in 2009 will be about 5% in Serbia. Based on such a poor assessment, first of all on your part because you are the finance minister and you need to take care of how much this country's budget will be, we had a budget proposal for 2009 and revenues in it in excess of 700 billion dinars. At that time, when adopting the budget, we of the DSS have warned multiple times that this is unreal, that there are too many negative movements, that the Serbian economy is in a very difficult position, that the tax imposes are too large and that it is simply impossible to achieve this kind of income. We have appealed more to the government and asked you to try to cut budget costs, or to reduce public spending. We have shown you that no government in the environment has so many ministries, so many state secretaries, so many assistants, so much waste of money, but of course your coalition agreement is much more important than the interests of Serbian citizens and how they live. After the first four months, catastrophic by state and economy and society in Serbia, early this year we came to rebalance in 2009, where budget revenues were adjusted to 650 billion and expenditures to 720 billion. In doing so, Madam Minister, you have explained here that the budget deficit will be 70.5 billion, and ten days ago, word came out that the budget deficit has been breached and that at this point, that is, on 1 October 2009, 74 billion dinars. I'm asking you, who allowed you to break the budget deficit?- I'm sorry. Why didn't you suggest budget rebalance? Today is October 13th, we have no budget rebalance, nor do we have a promise from you to this assembly, several months ago, that this year, despite all the problems, a budget calendar will be respected and that everything will be on time, so that the 2009 draft budget will also be in front of MPs in October, i.e. it will be adopted by November 1st. Those were your words. Unfortunately, it is October 13th, nor has the government discussed budget rebalancing, as far as I know, nor the 2010 budget, so unfortunately you too, although you are trying to prove to be a very nice minister in front of the Serbian public, have joined the play of many ministers and vice-presidents of the government to whom the word means nothing. Since the election campaign where pre-election promises of 200,000 new jobs have been plowing, we've come to a situation where we have 150,000 more people at the Employment Office than it was last year. A thousand euros per capita should not even be considered, because two months ago we saw the assessment of Deputy Prime Minister Dinkic's "famous" vice president, that the NIS would be able to expect 20 to 30 euros from Serbian citizens. "Promise – crazy joy" until the election campaign passes, and then it goes back to the way it was. As it happens now with the IMF, we talk and promise as long as the IMF is there, when the agreement is signed – then everything is the same. We heard that on the basis of talks with IMF leaders, the government would reduce public spending by firing 14,000 workers in public administration, state administration, local self-government, etc. The other day, you passed a law that should regulate this matter, which states that the largest number of employees in the state administration will be 28,400. Are you saying there are 28,400 employees in Serbia today? What's that reduction? As far as I know, you were talking last year about a $27,000 figure and something, close to 28,000 employees. Now the largest number is going to be 28,400. It's an increase compared to an existing number. All of what we have emphasized to you in the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget and rebalancing is now, unfortunately, returning to us as a boomerang. We have come to the point that, with the budget deficit breaking in October for four billion dinars, we can probably expect by the end of the year that more than 120 billion dinars will be missing in the budget. Yesterday, however, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, came out again with very optimistic statements – that we are leaving the crisis at the beginning of 2010. As I recall, such or very similar statements were in March or April of this year, when an improvement in our economy was announced in autumn, both in the economy and in the budget incomes. Mr Dinkic says Serbia will leave the recession at the latest in the first quarter of 2010, which is another one in a series of frauds that come from this side and from the gentleman, because all serious economists warn that in 2010 for Serbia, unfortunately, it will be just as difficult, if not worse than in 2009, regardless of their different movements and what is different in developed countries, because these movements are based on strong economy, which in our case cannot be said. Our business is on the air. Interests that need to encourage the development of these economies are too high, primarily based on the large reference interest given by the National Bank and then these business banks have no motive to place money in the economy for the promotion of production, but they are already more paid to give it to the National Bank and to get big money for it. The state also broadcast records to cover the budget deficit, and the other day in the paper we read that someone earned close to 20m euros. Are we so rich that we can pay so high credit prices, or the high prices of your coalition agreements, that you don't want to reduce public spending, but that you only smell each other, your claims through further borrowing. Several dozen contracts, various ratifications, have been through this assembly since you took over the government, which is measured in several billion euros. We heard that at the end of this year Serbia will reach its own debt of around 24 billion euros, and I do not understand what you are based on your further optimism that we can be in debt to the unconscious, that we do not want to reduce our consumption, that we live easily. Who's gonna pay those debts back? Based on what revenue and what economic movements can we expect that what we took from foreign creditors can be returned? Yesterday was another of Mr Dinkic's genius statements -- that Serbia has 758m euros in the National Bank reserves, and since the budget deficit is expected to be 4% next year, it will require 1.6 billion euros to cover it. Serbia has an agreed loan of one billion euros, and will receive 400m from the World Bank and 400m euros from the EU and 211 for Corridor 10, while the rest will be covered with a loan from the Russians. Is it possible that a Deputy Prime Minister, and of course with him and you, are thinking so that every year we will cover our excessive claims with loans of a billion, a billion and 600 million euros or already how many? How long? Instead of reducing demand, reducing public spending, you place this country in a position to continue to be in debt each year and it will go until Serbia is completely bankrupt and until it is forced to sell its natural resources, which are seen in large and strong public enterprises, such as EPS, Telecom and what remains to be privatised, which is not yet privatised. It's a completely irresponsible relationship. What was fraternizing to me was announced some time ago, as a major success of the government, a billion-euro loan from Russia. We've heard nothing more about the IMF arrangement here, but we've heard that the loan will be spent, about 300m euros to cover the budget deficit. Once again, pour into the bottomless hole. The rest will be spent on building a metro in Belgrade and ending the construction of Obroznica. It has also been announced that we will take a trade credit from China that will be spent on building a bridge from Borce to Zemun or vice versa, anyway. So all of the investments in Serbia will be covered by loans, state loans, but these investments will mainly take place in Belgrade. And what did Mr Batić say earlier – what will those people who live in Surdulica, Shop, Vranja, Piroth, Toplica, who relaxed or Nis, who have 37,000 unemployed and permanent strikes on the streets? Tell me, what is the logic of citizens of all Serbia returning credit to which a metro will be built in Belgrade? Does this mean that something else will be built out of the loan in Serbia or Belgrade itself? As long as the more passwords -- let Serbia work, to build Belgrade! I don't need to remind you what parallels are and what reception relations are in Belgrade, what living standards are in Belgrade and how many employees, or unemployed in Belgrade, are compared to other parts of Serbia. I guess you know that every year in Belgrade a city the size of Alexinac or Prokuplja, 40,000 people move to Belgrade. It's probably going to be even bigger over the next few years, because a lot of people are going to have to leave their places of life because they can't make a difference there. For me, it was defeating the fact that I was the finance minister to tell me that young and educated people from the second or third city largely in Serbia are moving and coming from it to the first city, which is the case with young and young and educated people from Nis who move massively to Belgrade or Novi Sad, because they can find a job there, and in their hometown, and I am not talking about smaller towns of Serbia, unfortunately, they can't. I can't because all state investments are focused on the capital and this part of Serbia. Southeast Serbia is in complete collapse, doing nothing, no incentives by the state do not come to these parts, investments are minimal or none in those parts of Serbia, and besides, the situation with state institutions, with public enterprises, which are all focused in this part of Serbia enough to say how huge regional differences and differences in development are, that absolutely this government no longer deserves to be treated with citizens of Serbia and those who live the hardest. We will be in a position for those who are the hardest to live in areas that are underdeveloped to repay debts for what is to be built in Belgrade, and I mentioned the subway and not to talk about other things. Such a government relationship must change urgently, otherwise this country will have major problems, both socially and socially, in the most vulnerable areas. Of course, we cannot support the concept of permanent borrowing in order to maintain social peace and maintain the government. It is important for us to make the state the cheaper and more evenly developed, and it certainly cannot be realized with you, especially if all promises are false and that everything you have said is absolutely untrue so far, that every day you make new and new promises, and new and new responsibilities, and new lies that Serbian citizens are drawn away from a better life. It would be best for you, as an honorary minister, to look at what you said five or six months ago, a year ago, to hear what the situation in Serbia is like today, to resign and withdraw from the scene, as well as the entire Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27489	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Your parliamentary group has 67 minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whoever wants to hear and to recognize, the intention of the SRS is, among other things, today when we talk about this law, and it could certainly be recognized in the discussion of my colleague Boris Aleksic, is to demystify this name and the name of this type of credit. He explained and showed it to the greatest extent. Of course, what I think I should say and add is the fact that the public needs to know what's going on here today and that based on this mystical term, "special rights" in public, which is not obliged to know what it is, it does not create the impression that we have some special, or special status, or that through this credit borrowing we will get some special benefits. In essence, this is a loan, this is just another debt noose around our country and all of us living in Serbia, and it's sad that together with all the other loans that this government and this government have defined for a long, long time and who knows how to repay. Of course, at the beginning of your discussion, Madam Minister, you, skillfully ruling the theory of public finance and banking, presented this as something completely benign, even, I would say, and useful to this country, and by its essence, you know, because of the situation it is today in economic terms in the country, this loan is not and does not represent it. What the SRS thinks and wants to remind you is the fact that from the adoption of the Law on the Budgetary System in this House, you have not defended any laws as a representative of the Government, and that it does not refer to any borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, for this same period, you never went out in public with a story that, I repeat, again does not refer to your arrangement with the IMF, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to the release in the public sector, that is, how you like it washed and packaged to say, reduction, or reduction of the public sector and public consumption. The fundamental problem of this law is in Article 3. As far as I could hear at the beginning of your discussion, you said that you would try to use these funds to the greatest extent possible, and then even one of the representatives of the congregation's majority here said that these funds were meant for reform, from the pension system, and so on. I don't think either of them are true, and you have very clearly defined by Article 3 of this law what you will use and for what purposes you foresee these funds. Unfortunately, it is covering the budget deficit and refinanceing the debt of the Republic of Serbia. This is what essentially causes all the opposition, all the confrontations that have so far been the subject of this debate under this law and which will certainly be a stumbling block in the debate further. When it comes to borrowing our country, the SRS has a diametrically opposed view of your position, as minister, and your government as you represent here. We have no doubt that you, I repeat, as someone who rules the theory of public finances, will recognize and find arguments to justify this borrowing. However, practice and harsh economic reality in Serbia show that things are different, on the one hand, which I will talk about a little later, and on the other hand, some "relevant financial institutions" say Serbia is not ready for new borrowing. Why do I call them relevant? Not because this is how the SRS experiences them, but because it is how you who, in time behind us, have rarely called upon the same reference institution, the World Bank, when you sought to defend and justify some of your economic ventures, to promote here in parliament, and then certainly in the public of the Republic of Serbia. The World Bank says Serbia will be critically in charge of the state by the end of this year. You and your colleagues are the easiest to say – you know, we are in charge, only 30% is the total public debt compared to GDP, which gives us the right to still be in debt, or that we are not in charge of the country. You see, the World Bank recognises some of the other criteria that it considers important and which qualify this country as a high-indebted country, i.e. by the end of this year it will be a critically in charge of the country. What are these criteria? One of these criteria is primarily the ratio of GDP and external debt. If you compare those two figures by the end of the year, you will see that the ratio is almost 80%, or that the external debt will reach 80% of the GDP value. And that's what puts this country in high-indebted countries. The second criterion the World Bank is also calling for is the export ratio at the annual level and external debt. When you put those two numbers into reality, do you know what you're getting? The foreign debt of this country will be around 24 billion euros by the end of this year, when you withdraw all these tranches that you need to withdraw and what you plan to do, and total exports at the annual level from the end of the year will be about eight billion. When you put it in a relationship, you get a coefficient of 3, and the World Bank thinks that the state is critically in charge when it crosses 2.2. The third criterion, which the World Bank is also calling for, is the ratio of the debt rate to total annual exports. In order for the state to be medium-indebted, it is necessary that this relationship does not exceed 25%. And by the end of the year, that relationship will be about 40%, which gives the state here a picture that's a high-indebted country. There are some other criteria that I wouldn't move on, because I don't think they're as relevant and as relevant as those criteria, I repeat, that reflect our daily life. When we talk about our capacity to borrow, about our economic picture, we need to talk about the liquidity that is in the state, about the public spending, about the state of the economy, about the state of our exports and all the other economic parameters that might give you the right to talk about that it is not a problem for Serbia to withdraw such tranches, that is, this kind of financial means. And that IMF you've been talking about months ago, and he thinks your government doesn't have credibility. You have negotiated with them from the point of view of the definition that you will be engaged in public spending. You could also deal with the revenue side of the budget, i.e. you defined yourself as the expenditure side. Here, explain to us and tell us, the SRS is asking you – in the context of a reduction in public spending, from the beginning of the story of its restrictions and reduction, what have you done besides cutting the salaries to the MPs? Did you remove one single regulatory body, commission or agency? You're not, Madam Minister! That's one banal example. And why didn't you do it and why are you creating an uncreditable or poor picture of this country and of that IMF institution of yours? Because you, as representatives of the government, which has been one continuity since October 5th, have just made the public spending Serbia has today! You formed agencies, you formed commissions, regulatory bodies and employed them. Now, what is the "charity" of this whole story? You have justified the adoption of laws and the formation of these agencies as a positive European practice in your laws, and behind these positive European practices you have employed your party officials, cups, officials, those who in any way have entrusted you in political terms. And today you promise to reduce the public sector, but you are not prepared to bear political responsibility by firing those you have politically employed and to subdue it to the public interest, the economic performance of this country. What's the liquidity situation in this country? For the first eight months of this year, nearly 8,000 foreign exchange loans went to an economy subsidized by the state. Over 250 dinar loans by September of this year. Do you know what they were taken for dominantly? To preserve liquidity. No one has been taken to open a new production plant, a new job, to create a base from which you will patch the budget gaps from which you have made your inaccessibility as an irresponsible government. And you're talking about the capacity of this country to raise some new loans, or create yourself these debt obligations and put them on your own! At the same time, what's going on in Serbia? You have a bunch of companies that executives, directors, officials, have been leading knowingly into bankruptcy, but at the same time the government, with its irresponsibleness, has never introduced bankruptcy in these same companies, so they have become blocked and part of the entire indivisible environment of the Serbian economy, hundreds of millions of dinars have been trapped in Serbia in this sense. We, Madam Minister, are talking about medals and prizes here instead of talking about improving the acquired process. That's the law you sent to congregation procedure. That's what we talked about a few days ago, when it was a law of distinction. What is the bankruptcy process known in Serbia? Instead of being a means to stabilize the economy, we recognize him here by some Stephen Moldovan. No one knows how much money he has taken, because the state has given him the right to do so, or has given him a great deal of political merit, so he has the right to do so, or has adopted it for himself. Why don't you say we're surrounded by countries that haven't been able to overcome their GDP since 1989? Do you know what two states in our environment have managed to do, to our misfortune, to our grief and shame? It's Albania and Croatia! We introduce ourselves as a leader in the region?- I'm sorry. What a shame it is, and it is not to be honored to serve anyone! And don't think the SRS is exulting because of all this, but these are devastating facts that will make generations behind us suffer. And you're part of a political apparatus that participates in all this, and you're going to have to take part of the responsibility for all this. Instead of dealing with laws today that will improve and raise financial security, legal certainty in this country, which will change the investment climate in this country, here again, calling for some information from you dear institutions – do you know what the World Economic Forum says? He says it takes Serbia on average 275 days to get a license for a greenfield investment. A few days ago, she escaped your lkea. You need an average of 625 days for those who want to invest here to exercise their contractual rights in court. Well, who's normal to come to invest and invest in a country like that? Who can create an economic substrate from which you will repay the debts you have loaded on our necks? No one's smart enough to come. You, I'll use the theory to justify, defend, and present this picture of Serbia, a cruel and grey picture of Serbia as much as you want, a colorful life, a practice and our reality tell us something completely different. In the end, Madam Minister, I said that you, as part of the government, would bear part of the responsibility. The SRS has no intention of participating in all of this, but what we must ultimately express as a regret is the fact that our children, God forbid our grandchildren, will pay the bills of irresponsible, incompetent and non-domestic economic policies that you, as representatives of the government, DSI Boris Tadic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27491	Thank you. Word has Mr. Vladan Jeremic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27492	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and today we are witnesses, here in Parliament, of writing another chapter of the infamous economic policy, namely stories directed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which only contributes to further destabilising macroeconomic opportunities in the country, and the most credit for this is the neoliberal concept of economic strategy, which, primarily under the mandate of the IMF, is being implemented in Serbia, with the expansion of fiscal policy, which, I say, has the most impact on the destabilising of macroeconomic opportunities. I have to admit, Mrs Dragutinovic, that I listened very carefully to you during your opening presentation, but it was really unclear whether we were going to spend this money or not. And I think it's actually a crucial question -- why are we even taking money as a state? If it's about starting industrial production, then the answer is definitely no. If it's about building or investing in infrastructure, I think the answer is "no" again. So there are three of these left, so there's no economically logical and justifiable possibilities. One is the theory, primarily represented by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, on strengthening foreign reserves. I think this only confirms that the growth of Serbia's foreign reserves is absolutely due to excessive debt growth, and not, as would be economically logical, to the surplus of the trade balance or to the potential inflow of investment capital, which becomes a rather unknown concept for this government. We need to be aware of this if the trend in the growth of the trade balance deficit continues, otherwise the weakest components of the balance of payments, so that the state, in particular the monetary policy run by the National Bank of Serbia, could face a record level of foreign debt by the end of the year. I will remind only one more time, although I think the public knows that according to official data, the total debt is currently something more than 21 billion euros. The second option, also, economically infamous, is to cover the deficit. A few days ago, we witnessed when one of the representatives from your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, said that a new rebalance, which is not yet announced, would be filled with the budget deficit just in cash received in credit arrangements, primarily with the IMF, and then with the World Bank and business banks. And the third thing, it seems the most realistic thing, is that all the money from all these arrangements on any basis, whether it's a stand-by or another, will be clearly used to finance debt payments, or to refinance already existing comrades. When it comes to second chances, i.e. the fullness of the budget deficit, I think it's very dangerous to borrow from business banks, because I guess everyone who knows the economy knows that foreign banks are buying government records from values they don't take risks with, while the economy remains on their own. It is precisely this link between foreign banks' interest and these poor monetary policies of the National Bank of Serbia, along with the budget deficit, that it will certainly have long-term consequences for the Serbian economy. The essence of the unsustainability of the overall economic policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia lies in the fact that the first collapse of the domestic banking sector, by introducing foreign players, primarily by these Austrian and German banks, began the favorite famous concept of the IMF, which is – a restrictive monetary and fiscal policy, combined with the policy of the exchange rate as a nominal anchor. Maybe this is an opportunity, but I don't think we're going to get an answer to this question, about how the media strictly controlled by the national frequency likes to characterise, through fate talks with the IMF, whether it's about those in August or those starting next week, we need to know that this is about continuing political conditioning and the financial dependence of the state on Western capital. For example, Mrs Dragutinovic, you probably know that in a classic stand-by arrangement it is realistic to withdraw up to about 300% of the quota determined according to the economic potential of a country. For our country, therefore, Serbia, these approved 2.9 billion euros is equivalent to 560%. So what's this about if everybody knows that the economy doesn't know the category of love? If it is known that the budget deficit of 4.5% of GDP has been recorded, that the reduction of excessive public spending without more serious social unrest has no say, that the state has a negative rating for foreign direct investment, and that the sunflower of industrial production continues, the issue is clearly imposed – is there perhaps a new and unknown condition imposed on the representatives of the Serbian authorities, and all due to the realisation of the overall credit arrangement by 2011? Is it possible that the IMF has been negligent that after an economic, and I remind you, it is about the acceptance of the phantom state of Kosovo into membership of the said organisation on 9 May, on Europe Day, it may also be doing political pressure on Serbia, possibly requiring it to recognise the independence of the southern Serbian province? So what is certain is that all Serbia's economic problems are primarily structural, and that this high interest policy of overestimated dinars, which is being implemented under the IMF's order, will cause the analysis to show that the overall external debt of Serbia in the next two years reaches 90% of GDP, which will bring both states and citizens clearly into the state of the permanent economic crisis. Thanks to the exchange rate policy and reportedly nominal earnings growth over the past few years, citizens in Serbia have rushed to these business banks, so that, as someone has already said, they have achieved these American dreams -- by buying cars, solving housing problems and so on, and thus only started a continuous and progressive borrowing of population and economy, which resulted in, as I said earlier, more than 21 billion euros, the total foreign debt at this point. Mrs Dragutinovic, on several occasions we pointed out, primarily to the public, that the state would face this potential problem of so-called sovereignisation of the debt. You're here, I can tell you, quite unknowingly trying to convince us that this is not going to happen, or that the state is not going to be in a position to accept the payment of the full, therefore, both public and private debt. However, it is more than clear, and according to this law that we are discussing today, that this current economic story will continue in the same direction, hence, credit growth, imports, current balance deficits, general debt, with the already mentioned restrictive monetary and fiscal policy. The state, as one said, has become an addict of foreign capital flows, and just now the liberalisation of these external trade flows has been further strengthened by that incomprehensible decision on the unilateral application of the SAA, which, according to your recognition several months ago, has caused a deficit in the 267m-euro budget account, and thus has been practically caused, seems to be an insolvent problem in the Serbian economy, which is a deficit in the current section of the balance of payments. And indeed, the question arises – how will it be absorbed through the upcoming budget rebalance, which we hope will follow very quickly. So what we point out in the SRS is that, above all, a complete change in both economic and tax and monetary policy is needed, especially in terms of the banking system in Serbia, which is entirely left to foreigners, who charge clients the biggest interest margins, and pay the lowest effective profit tax in Europe, which is certainly a huge burden on citizens and businesses. We have already proposed that one of the first measures to fill the empty republican budget could, for example, be the introduction of that additional tax for banks. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that everything that we have been able to accept in Parliament in these few months on a proposal from the government, and by decision, by the desire and will of the ruling majority, is being seen in a real and sad everyday life about how citizens of Serbia live today, and I fear that with this policy, those who will inherit us, and many generations after us, will only be faced with the consequences of all this. Mrs Dragutinovic, there's a word called this law "drawing". I think it's high time you took one good move and pulled yourself out of this economic story where you're coping with it as "Alyssa in Wonderland." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27493	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. You've got 40 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27494	Of course, I'll honor you, since you've been late in Europe for 20 years. I have to do it for the viewers, if anyone else is following this, in addition to five DS MPs, as long as it's enough for you, just to let you know that I'm "the bankruptcy manager of the Democratic Party" and I'm doing a good job. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am in great doubt whether I should repeat something I was saying at this time in 2003, when the Prime Minister was Zoran Zivkovic, or should I say what I said last year, at this very time? [[Applause]] I came to the conclusion that I would say nothing new, and I would almost not come out of the frame of these young radicals who today presented the SRS' views on this issue and I decided that, in my own particular language, I would explain to the citizens what it was about when it came to this bill. Folkly, everyone understands me, here's the thing. A group gathered on October 5, 2000 and set fire to this beautiful building. Beat Milanovic, won RTS, lit ballots, declared a winner, got support from abroad! He immediately followed a request for the SRJ to be admitted to the UN as a new state, not the one whose membership was suspended on 31 May 1992, and then, on the orders of Labus, it started with crisis headquarters and corporate conquest, one by one. The 'desrbification' process has begun. In Germany, it used to be a denacification, and with us, Serbian societies would be destroyed. They found casings, they found something that was much cheaper than bombs, so they brought the state to this situation through the media and paid politicians, and the situation was next -- on October 5th, you might have double-crossed someone's stories about market economy, democracy, human rights, that everyone would be available to their ability and qualifications, and then in a few months, until today, you'd run over it, you'd run over it. You used to say that someone was stealing elections, so we had to steal choices and votes from both Thessaloniki and Bodrum and not tell everything that was happening to us, which is certainly the black past of the Republic of Serbia, something that can't serve this people's pride, but we need to know that the DS is behind it, in any aggregate state. In 2003, you brought the country before they broke up. You also showed this kind of incompetence, so you even had the same protagonists in the government, to remind you, Milosavljevic, Djelic and not to go any further. Look at the wonders, Zoran Zivkovic was much more moral. He didn't even want to take from Carla del Ponte the charge against Sreten Lukić, but he said – go to the counter and hand it over! You're not even able to show that kind of courage. You sold everything. What's left? What's left is no one's gonna do it anymore, and where that money ends, no one knows. You're in charge of the state. Once, seven years ago, for borrowing with much higher interest rates and you could get a round of applause from the citizens, and today, and for free of that money from abroad, you only draw the wrath of the citizens. Why? It is clear to all that it is a planetary fraud, because the dirty work with the Serbian people and Serbia is not finished. We have a congregation resolution. Whoever confessed to KIM, we shouldn't cooperate with him. The IMF has joined Kosovo and Metohija and given them special rights to drag. And these Eurofanatics of ours, by the system, come on, greed, pick up what you can get, say that even if you take a loan that you can't repay, or eventually it'll be too expensive for you, and that's good. Why good? Today we need to talk about the inability of all these politicians and governments from 2000 to today. They don't even know what social accumulation is, they don't even know what production is, they don't know anything. They know how to put yourself in charge. We prayed for seven years - don't open the agencies! They just now came up with this fluid in their heads to say, well, yeah, we don't need agencies. And why did they open the agencies? She lifts a frog's foot where she saw the horses so she says - we want to go to the EU, so since they have an agency, let's have an agency too. And who did they hire? Young, smart experts with diplomas don't know anything. That's all the cost. Who's supposed to pay for that? This economy can't. Then comes duty, duty, duty! You owe us more than Tito! Tito left a small debt to you. Now, imagine, hypothetically, if Mladjan Dinkic guaranteed his property for what he owed this country. Would he agree to owe the state? No, you wouldn't. Would Boris Tadic be in charge of the state and he's guaranteed, so if he can't use the property, even if he's in prison for life. No, you wouldn't. Imagine the irony – the biggest story about pension system reform is Krkobibic, and he is 25 years head of the pension system. By the way, pensioner, it counts that he's lost his ability to work and he's not capable of some functions. Where does that come from? From an incompetent authority. What's keeping that incompetent government? Fear. What else? The media. What else? Lies to lies! Can you imagine – we are talking about foreign investments in the green meadow. Comes a stranger, brings money...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27495	Mr. Krassic, I apologize. I don't think you'll mind just one little break to take. I would like, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to inform you that the Parliament delegation of the Russian Duma is, therefore, our colleagues from Duma are at the gallery, I suggest we welcome them. And, of course, I'd like to ask you to continue. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27496	So, investment, ice, some say the presidents of the municipalities are capable of providing infrastructure. A stranger comes, he says – it's good for the country. He'll bring his living money. He comes here and then Mladjan Dinkic gives him money for every open job. Well, who's that stranger? Well, what kind of business is that? We have such business people to export, here in our country. Let's see who pays the tax, who doesn't pay the tax. They do not pay taxes or execute those who are close to the authorities or have joined a party that is in power and thus gained that benefit. Excuse me, please, if you're not paying taxes, you're in strategic advantage of anyone who pays taxes, especially with respect to someone who's constantly being paid a visit to the inspection, so he won't let him live. And of course these things happen the way they do. With us rewards as successful people have been given to people who are the greatest tax evasionrs. Who gave them the rewards? State, which directly, indirectly, through their associations. Why did she buy them? For something that's some system of value that's absolutely unacceptable. In such conditions, this country has no other step than to be in debt. There's talk of some Vienna deal, somewhere around New Year's, it doesn't matter, a month, two, up there. Even led the President of the Republic to Vienna. What is the purpose of the Vienna Agreement? A request from foreign banks not to leave our market during 2009, and the state will guarantee the revenues they had in 2008. These are hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros that can legally be taken out of the country, but since credit activity has stopped towards citizens and businesses, then it has started with one other activity, which is, by purchasing securities of value, issued by the state, with an interest rate of 16 to 17.5% and of course the banks no longer place elsewhere, because they have gold coke here. The golden coke is called the Republic of Serbia's budget. Who is filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia? All citizens. That way we all give interest to foreign banks that they export abroad. We talked a few months ago about maybe these banks should adjust their interest policy towards citizens, to be at the same rate as in France, Austria, etc, where they are in the home state doing that work. He says we can't limit interest. He says we have a big business risk. And what's the means of security? It's a mortgage. It's the strongest tool. But with us and the mortgage has lost importance, and to put something on the market, there's no one to buy it. These are the terrible things that happen with us. They've come up with the notion of economics. A few months ago, I told them, guys, let's get the SDK back, this way we're just paying bank fees, everybody. Practically, we all exist because of banks from abroad. They said, "He can't do it, he can't do it." For a month and a half, they've been taking action to get banks to pay their salaries, too, to make contributions on behalf of the legal person. And there's a lot of noise right now. Is there a legal system with you? Does something work with us? Is it possible that we're still working on that current salary and pension bill? What else works in this country? What else do we have that works? There isn't! And here we are given a bill that says -- we're going to be able to borrow, well, it's expressed in specially drawn rights -- it's now about 420 million euros on today, but we're not going to take it right away, but maybe we're going to take it and maybe we won't take it. The interest will be 0.26%. We'll see what we're gonna do, and they've got a three-billion-dollar program with the IMF, that's what they keep quiet about, there's nothing to know, there's no ratification. It's according to some special program. And what does the IMF do? He's doing other people's interests. He's pulling into debt slavery, slowly but surely this space. We have strangers, we do intelligence. Who's using the land? Not to mention what was sold to you in Vojvodina and to whom it was sold. We've got five-six tycoons, I'm absolutely sure it's a complete arrangement with the IMF a couple of months ago in the function of two tycoons, which broke because they got into the real estate business uncontrollably and on the occasion of the University. Now, the whole state has to guarantee the stability of that tycoon and his bank, which here makes more and more money than anywhere on the globe! We fill these rich people up like this, and the representatives of the government, the colorful lie. I'm sorry, please. The government's sittings seem like "Farma" on Pink to me. Since I know people who are in government, they don't behave any better than those normal people at the Farm. These people at the National Bank may be like Big Brother. Well, that's the message that's coming to us. 'We have a message coming to us - if you want him to be a European man, you have to be as abnormal as possible. That's why we raise our voice and warn you, for nine years you didn't want to listen to us, and here today, a small team of young radicals gave you a lecture, and to you as a professor, and to the present and absent creators of this policy and this Serbia's collapse – we do not allow Serbia to fail! How can Vojislav Seselj defend himself in chains, so will we defend ourselves here. We won't let you break up Serbia! And you wouldn't be so proud if Vojislav Seselj were here. [[Applause]] That's why you're asking him to be there as long as possible, because you're paid to finish your dirty business with Serbia. We won't let you! Throw us out, change the Information Act, change the Law on Public Assemblys, do whatever you want, we don't let you tear Serbia apart!- I'm sorry. [[Applause]] And you admit that in nine years, everything is negative. Serbia has been a downer since you are, in a downer. This is your European policy. Eurofanatism on TV – come on "Big Brother", come on "Farme", come on, let's get some representation, jiu-hu, jia-ha. And where are the jobs? Where are the salaries? Where are the pensions? Where's the education? I did not bring you this diary to see the EU advertised to children who are third year of high school, through reminders, what is the EU, and where is Serbia. That's offensive! Why didn't your Minister of Education take it to cast, but he still stamped the Ministry of Education? That's offensive! Why are you destroying the soul? The people want to live. He wants the people to live normally, to go to work, to work. You don't let people work. Now you've put into the story - the global financial crisis. Well, she's been shaking Serbia for nine years, people. It's not a year, it's been shaking for nine years! It's been shaking ever since you came to power! You're talking about white Schengen. No one's looking forward to that white Schengen. They're free of Schengen when people don't have money, they don't have needs, they don't want to go anywhere. Why? Where are they going? How many broken marriages are there? Go to the dairy forest, and see what is there in the evening – the shelter of the junkies! Go to the train station in Resnik, so you can see. Was that ever? Did you catch anyone doing that? Maybe he's working on someone's warrant? Maybe he's laundering money? Maybe he's promoting some European fluids? Do you know what it's like in Rakovica? Instead of opening a folk kitchen, a dog hotel opens, Gilas gave 40 million dinars, on kidnapped land. Maybe this loan goes there, too, to cover the holes. Safe house, illegally built. A dream house, illegally built. Big Brother, illegally built. Well, how can you put that on TV? The crab catches European trends. There's also a agricultural cluster, and there's no agricultural land. Some Djurovic from New Belgrade and the president of the municipality made the company "Incubator Step", and pubs. They don't care! European! You came by violence and promoted violence. Tell the people: violence solves greed and everything else. Then you're surprised what's going on, come on, give people jobs back. Give people jobs back!- I'm sorry. Look at our villages. Relaxed! And you're just smiling. I've known you 15 years just smiling. Everything's not true, everything's fine, everything's fine. It's nice for you, I'm not saying you don't like it. But you're not Serbia. It's not just you Serbia. The people are bothering you. Now prepare yellow packages, blue packages, then share a little bit. It's your attitude to the election. Ihu-hu! Celebrate, you win. What did you win? Who'd you beat? You beat Serbia. You're in charge of the state, you know he can't get out of this situation himself. We didn't turn to ourselves. This isn't where the work is being promoted, this is where the borrowing is being promoted. Look in the Assembly in 2000, I don't know if there were 100 employees. How many are there now? And the work is unskilled. He was much better in 2000. Enter the other ministries, and behold, they sit on each other's heads, except that in the morning they are not grabbed by a chair, so whoever catches a chair has a place to sit. Who hired them? Do you remember in 2000 when you said – Milosevic has 100,000 police officers, and in 2001 you say – it's little, we're short 5,000, we only have 18. Was that so, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? That's what happened, you know, and so do I. And I fought against these, both those up and these. Against those up there, I was successful, but I couldn't do this "drink-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-doo." I couldn't! It hit! Funded abroad, then NGOs, on all sides of the plot, so the people believed really, sees all of Serbia against this. Well, it's not all of Serbia. You tricked people. And with this loan, you cheat people. And with all these things you've done in nine years, you've deceived people. Cheated! You can't cheat anymore! Now the point is how to raise the will to live in Serbia, to raise the voice, not to withdraw. You're not the force to back down. You're no force. You're a destruction! That's why the people need to raise their voices, let it come out, that it's alive, that it doesn't agree to what you're doing, because it will bear the responsibility of anyone who agrees to this destruction that you're doing! We've been warning you for nine years what's wrong. Why isn't it good? We demonstrated a high degree of consent when it came to all resolutions for Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of what you were stalking us in 2001, the most brutal! What did you do? Deadened the Kosovo and Metohija issue. They raised him to the International Court of Justice, called on Eulex, and now you're moaning at Eulex. So what's he doing? Well, he can't do Tito's policy in 2009. He can't! The world is no longer what it was 50 years ago. Can't get a little left a little right, so a little over here and a little over there. It's not working, you've lost your sense of something that is the authentic interests of this people! They are full of mouths – praise the English for keeping their tradition, based on tradition. When we say something about our tradition, you say, no, our tradition is bad. So how come people? What's this all about? It runs this silence that exists in Serbia. It's no good when there's silence in Serbia, remember! When people retreat to homes, when they complain, when they walk down the street and talk to themselves, it's not good. We don't care about the fight. But you don't solve any questions. You're just opening a crisis. Open the question, don't solve it, press it out, it counts as if you've done the job. Immediately grabs a new topic, there is Mladjan Dinkic a world record player, in three days he will open 16 new topics. You've made simple manners. Before a parliamentary debate opens, a public debate ends in the media. And then you come here like you're talking about something, it's all about order, so you throw in the press, they chase you here, they take some statements about pigeons, so people don't even understand what they're talking about in the assembly, some serious subject. That doesn't work anymore. If you're capable, turn to the right things. Now let's ask any of this government, of these 420 million that are, like, perspectives. Tell me what you'll spend it on. No one would know if he told you; to say 200,000 euros for shoes for police officers, 300,000 euros for primary education, 500,000 euros for health care, so to calculate, come on, maybe there's something. But they keep quiet, they defend themselves by silence. What's the reason? Well, there's this 126, if it fails, so let's give Canca 5,000 euros, finish the job, they'll vote, we'll give this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, once again Rasim put a yellow hat on his head and take a picture, and finish the job. That's what people know. It can't go through any more, it's always drawn, it's salinated, it's broken, let's see. You admitted that Serbia is down. Who brought Serbia to a minus? You! Who's been bothering you for nine years? You didn't have a NATO pact, you didn't have a bombing, you didn't have a demonstration, you didn't have protests, you didn't have strikes, you didn't have anything! You've all been relieved. You even had accomplices: both the CIU, and the Hague tribunal, and the European Union, all of you had accomplices. So, minus - how's that, people?- I'm sorry. Well, how's that?- I'm sorry. Do you remember what you said, and no, we come to power – Kosovo solved, there are our friends, there are our partners. That's how you represented the NATO Pact. So what happened to our partners? And those of you, too, are cheeses in a mouse-hunting for nothing. Come on, what are you going to do about it, but why the people? What's the people's fault? It's a bad thing. I don't know how you're gonna make it to New Year's Eve. I'm not worried about you, I'm worried about the state and the people. I don't care about you. You've got it. He's got three jobs. Did you see him? He went to the people, on the front of the newspaper, and entered the Assembly to restitution, to recover the property - registered return of the property, and stole in Resnik the peasants 166 hectares. When — Democrats? You don't believe it? Go to Rakovica and ask any citizen, any passerby if you meet him, ask him what's going on in Rakovica. They'll tell you Krasic didn't say 5% of what everyone knows. And you know, and I know that some of you are ashamed that you are in this society, I know. I know it's a small number, but I know some people don't support it. Why do you not wish to be identified with those people there? But you have to fight for it. You fight for it, you listen to the people. Listen to the people. You don't want to hear the people. You hear the statistics, you hear the survey by Milan Nikolic, Bogosavljevic. Now I see that CESID and they're running an analysis. He hasn't finished college yet, but he's running tests, you know, a library member -- no, you've got it all together nicely. Since I promised you that I would honor you with some time to get to this "Jevropo" as soon as possible, I will finish this presentation with an attitude – that the SRS will not, at the end of the day, vote for one such provision, for a law like this which in perspective can only mean confirming the credit over-indebtedness of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27497	He has the word Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27498	I really must, the President-in-Office, replicate Mr Krasic, because here he is several times in a very negative context, very maliciously mentioned DS. Mr. Krasic, your experience as a bankruptcy manager that you have acquired in the SRS and by not passing the censorship in Vranjska Banja and elsewhere, you do not have to transfer it to the DS, because our people say, "What of the crow falls away, never becomes a falcon." So, really let us deal with our programme and our policy, and you are dealing with your party and what you did to the country in Serbia in 1999. Serbia has not recovered from it yet. Don't charge the DS like this without arguments, due to the lack of a political programme, and because it rains outside, and because it's getting dark at 6pm now. Serbian citizens know who they vote for, who they trust and what they do it for. I understand your indignation and understand your compensation to the opposition mind. It's good to have someone in the opposition, but it's the hardest in the opposition for the first 20 years. It'll be easier for you later, Mr. Krassic. By then you will probably get the strength to cross the censorship of Vozdovac, Vrnjačka Banja and other municipalities of Serbia, where you failed in the previous elections. When you pass it at the bar, when you convince the citizens of Serbia that you have really changed the way you think, that you are no longer the democratic option you are now, the false democratic option, but that you are who you have always been, then you can make whatever arrangements you want with the citizens of Serbia, whatever promises you want, and then Serbia will be in the EU for the most part. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27499	He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27500	Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, I hope you heard me well. I was talking about DS, and I expected one of the DS representatives to come forward, there's a president and a vice president for that kind of replica. I'm glad, since I had the chance to hear this presentation, it confirmed that my thesis – that the Resistance has indeed taken over the DS and there is no help. When the CIA takes something into its own hands, that weed doesn't grow. Otherwise, I don't want to comment on some things, just, I think I did it, and that's exactly what I wanted to prove -- a nice story, a nice story, a wash, a nice one, and Serbia is going down. There, that's the Democratic Party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27501	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a principled search on the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund on the basis of the use of means of alllocation of special rights to draw approved by the Resolution of the Board of Governors No 64-3 and No 52-4. Thank you for your work. Tomorrow we'll continue to work at 11.00 because the Defense Committee is scheduled for half past ten, so it probably won't be over so we don't delay and start, so at 11:00 tomorrow. I'm sorry, I thought the Minister wasn't in the mood, it's my failure, I'm sorry, please. Please be patient to listen to Mrs Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27502	I'm sorry Mr. Markicevic isn't here with us. As always, I am pleased to hear the opinions of the MPs and the satisfaction of answering parliamentary questions. Also, as always, there are topics that keep repeating, questions that you keep repeating, so unfortunately, so must my answers. The most common criticism addressed in this respected home is something that seems to me to be in textbooks and in the rest of the world a perfectly normal thing, most often criticises the depravity or deficit of the state as something that is not common, and I remind you that the deficit as well as the surplus of the state are normal instruments of fiscal policy, so the deficit is used at the time of recession as a state action, as the surplus is used in the conditions of inflation. Also, duty as well as deficit is used and criticised per se, as if it's not normal for conditions where you have a "gep" deficit between missing incomes and higher expenditures to cover the debt of the state as if it's not normal for all countries in the world to have market charters of value, as if it's not normal for countries to broadcast securities of value, and that there are buyers for these same charters. When both the deficit and the borrowing are criticised, it is no wonder that there are such MPs who will not accept nor accept the general and special location of the special rights of towing. I'd like to repeat once again that what we discussed today is simply not a loan, so when it's not a loan, then it can't have a rest period or a manual. There's just, it's a long-term commitment, what's only relevant, the interest rate, which at this point is 0.26%. It is variable and changes, and the other costs are only the cost of maintaining the special rights of withdrawal accounts. These are fixed costs and if we have more special draw rights, then these are the costs. So the cost per unit is lower. As for the 90m-euro borrowing held at the debate in Parliament, at the end of July or early August of the month, I must say that the contracts were not signed, and they may not be signed, they were in no hurry, because we have just better control of budget funds and increased payment of tax revenues started to focus more on the quality of the contract itself. So the moment the contract is signed and the first funds are withdrawn, MPs will have at their disposal the content of the contract. I would like to point out once again that no matter how many negative words, sentences, tracts, sent to the number of ministers, the number of civil servants and so on, I would like to repeat that the size of public spending anywhere in the world, nor in Serbia, is not measured by the number of people, by the number of employees in the state administration, by the number of ministers, by the number of state secretaries, but by the participation of public spending in the social product. And I don't argue that it's high and I'm not slow and I'm trying, and every budget of that rebalance is actually a budget that reduces public spending. You have the right and the obligation to criticise, but somewhere, it seems a little excessive and over-emphasizing the criticism of the projection. Not because projections, first because projections aren't mine and somewhere not because they're not good, so I'm giving them up, but because nowhere in the world or in Serbia does people work in the ministry, but rather because projections of relevant institutions that only a team or a team deal with, and even such institutions are not able to predict perfectly because it's simply impossible. Of course, I'm familiar with Tobin's tax. However, it is a fact that the financial sector is not a VAT debtor, nor in Serbia, anywhere in the world, and that is true. For example, if the financial sector were a debtor, it would behave like other VAT bonds, so they would turn it over to the end-user. In that case, credit would just be more expensive. However, the fact that the financial sector is liquid, well capitalised, and that it has made a lot of money, does not leave it amnesty from paying taxes, but is already recorded, essentially greater pay of profit tax. So, as for the increasingly frequent topics about taxing the financial sector, I just think there was one small sentence missing – that only makes sense when all the countries in the world do it. I'm not against it. There's money, that's true, but as one saying of "money and children never much," the Budgetary System Act and I as a minister really intend to put all the funds under control. However, it seems to me that the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Flight Control Agency are simply not good examples. Why? The fact is that it's regulatory bodies, that they have some monopoly, that they control the sky over us and control the flights, but regulation is international. So, international regulation also over the Serbian sky and over flights over the Serbian sky, as well as everywhere in the world, prescribes an appropriate routine fee, and this routine fee, which is quite generous, and it is not disputed that these agencies or regulatory bodies have large revenues, can only be used in the safety of traffic. Are the objectives of the IMF and the Government of the Republic of Serbia different? I would just like to underline the following: the role of economic policy, which is only monetary and fiscal, must only be one, and that is price stability and that is the most important thing that these two policies can do for economic growth. Citing that the goal of monetary and fiscal policy should not be stability but rather something else reminds me, about what is more important for a long-term runner? Is it more important to have a good doctor or coach? Generally, a good coach, but he won't be a good runner unless he's healthy enough and he doesn't have a good enough doctor. In the end, even though I never said it, I kind of feel, I don't know, I want to say my opinion about the most frequently referred criticism, very funny, on a sentence that recession is a chance. So, I didn't say, I don't have the obligation to defend that attitude, but somewhere I feel like I could share my opinion on it with you. It seems to me that the crisis situation, and the recession is a crisis, before the tremors, before sleeping, shows weakness, but somewhere rewards for strength, kills some bad old habits, and creates new opportunities. Do not forget that many good companies have just come into existence in times of crisis, as well as many good ideas and products. I'll tell you just a few, so next time we're criticizing that we know that some big discoveries, like synthetics, like artificial rubber, some big firms, like "Revlon," "Hulet-Packard" just came up in a time of crisis. So much for me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27503	I would ask you to listen to Mrs Tabakovic, who also answered. By the way, we finished that official part. I've closed the session. Thank you, Ministers and MPs, for continuing to participate in the conversation. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27504	I've left six minutes now to answer the question. Mrs Dragutinovic, if you did not know, at a meeting of G20 Germany and France particularly advocated and planned to introduce a tax on financial transactions, because they believe "that, in addition to additional tax revenues, they will destimulate speculant capital that often passes from currency to currency in order to make a fast profit". Do we have to wait for Germany and France to do it, or are we in a difficult situation, and we have a generous source and why not use it? The margins are limited. The Governor, who advocates the market, did not limit the margins of banks to market measures, and would not be able to exceed that tax charge, which I, according to the VAT, require, to customers, or to borrowers, at least until that restriction has been lifted. So you wouldn't be spending that on end-users. Mrs Dragutinović, perhaps the special rights of towing, for which you have not given sufficient explanations in the material, are not credit and obligation, and bear interest, perhaps. But the IMF loan is the first on the list of credit obligations and stands, this is the NB report, August 31st, with a figure of 767.9m euros. The credit obligation means what is withdrawn, even though it stands in the window or drawers only for the preservation of foreign exchange reserves, deserves to be paid interest and pay attention, as a commitment that we have to think about and take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27505	Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27506	I just said I don't like experimenting. So I don't like to apply something in the country of Serbia that hasn't been seen anywhere in the world. Why? We used to have a tax on financial transactions, and I often referred to it as an example that it was the reason why during the hyperinflation period there was no major real decline in public income. Because public income was coming right at the point of taxation. That's what we had. We left because it was a world practice. The world practice is to develop the financial market, because the financial market is a blood stream and to release various fiscalities, except in that part where if the financial sector earns profits, if it employs, etc., it is obliged to pay taxes. I love Tobin's tax as an idea, but I'm just saying as a common policy of the largest number of countries, if one country has that and the other has none, then it's entirely possible, since monetary capital is the most mobile, that capital from that country that has it escapes into that country that doesn't have it. So I don't think Serbia's capital should run away. On the contrary, the capital should come.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-13-0.u27507	I thank RTS and MPs who participated in a useful dialogue, in my opinion, and the special address of Minister Dragutinovic. Everything doesn't have to be formalized. Thank you. It's really useful. I thank the MPs who listened to Mrs Tabakovic and the minister. Tomorrow at 11.00 p.m., as agreed. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Nikola Lazic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I, the president of the motion, invited the sittings to attend: Dusan Spasojevic and Igor Jovičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Dragan Radulovic, Secretary of the Defence Ministry, Brigadier General Mitar Kovac, Colonel Goran Zekovic and Slavica Jerkovic, Head of Defence Ministry and Milorad Peric, Head of International Military Co-operation at the Ministry of Defence. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DEFENCE LAW (specificity) Mr. Žika Gojković, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
