ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12667	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 143 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 111 MPs are present at this point, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the start of work. We were informed that they were prevented from attending the session of MPs Bajram Šehovic and Meso Omerovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the finance ministry and Natasa Kovacevic, deputy finance minister. With us is our minister, I welcome Mrs Dragutinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12668	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, for the first time I use the Institute of Members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, wanting me to ask one question here and give one notice, and I think it concerns an extremely important matter, which is the realisation of a strategic partnership with the "Fiita." Thanks to the promise of bringing "Fiyat" the ruling coalition has won elections, it is not an irrelevant thing, and at the time of 2008, when the global financial crisis has already shown its negative effects and when it has already been clear that the effects of this crisis will, above all, be reflected on the automotive industry in the country where it is a development engine, but also on the European market, and on the company that we expected the strategic partnership from. The pre-election trick, which cannot be called otherwise, was free at the moment of the promise, in order to make it appear through the alleged implementation of the project that it costs 200m euros and 300m euros, and that budget of the Republic of Serbia. How much will it cost the city of Kragujevac's budget for giving up future incomes, I won't be talking about it right now. The President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, selects time, very carefully chooses and tells us that he will announce that the whole project is delayed by ten months and under the pretext of the global financial crisis. Now there is also the need to intervene in this home with the question of whether it is possible for anyone in this country to bear responsibility because it is unusually skilled by presenting a promise that deceives Serbian citizens who have just given him the right to form a government and run this country. It is unacceptable that on December 15th, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the head of the "Forward Serbia" club, asked you a question, a stenogram of 15 says: "I am asking for a reply from the Prime Minister what has been done so far to meet the obligations of the contract, from the pre-election contract with the Italian car factory", and you claimed that everything is fine and that there will be no delay. (President: Time. ) The result is that the factory has been emptied because of the alleged renovation, that workers receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget and that there is still nothing since the announced project. You're proving to the citizens that marketing can beat reality. Please, the least you owe to the citizens, if you've been deceived in this strategic partnership, is that you suffer the consequences of being careless and responsible to the citizens, and at least it's that Mr. Tadic, Mr. Cvetkovic and Dinkic, as the idea maker who paid over a million and a few euros for this, resign for this trick for which... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The citizens shouldn't be harmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12669	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Jeremic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, in favour of a number of earthquake life stories that the public from the assembly speaker has been informed exclusively of the opposition MPs I will use the right that enables me and Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question and to request an emergency response for the next one. In Mladenov, on 13 January 2009, the resolution of veterinary inspector Milan Kostadinovic banned the company "Damjanovic". The same company, which has been a success in meat production and processing for more than a decade, has succeeded in winning a significant part of the Serbian market. She employs about 350 workers, representing the largest active collective in the almost destroyed youth economy. It should not be mentioned in particular how many agricultural producers from the area of this Belgrade suburban municipality were business and existentialally connected with the company Damjanović. The reason for this inhumane decision by the veterinary inspector lies in the fact that technical deficiencies related to the line of slaughter or to the application of the HACCP system are not, as the solution states. The truth works, Zivorad Damjanovic, owner of the Damjanovic Meat Industry, submitted on 3 January 2009 to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic Veterinary Inspectorate request that at least the meat processing process be allowed until technical details for the application of the said system are met, so that employees do not lose their jobs. Although the Food Institute regularly controls the correctness of the supplies, and within the company there is a laboratory, the authorities have been deafened, and the workers have stopped to protest in front of SO Mladenovac, among other things, by the fact that local self-government should begin to interfere in its work, as well as by recommending the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic from that historic Saturday plenary on the preservation of jobs. Of course, helping out of nowhere, and people with their families with a chill expect a new day. If this isn't about the big one swallowing small ones, if it's not about someone having an interest in importing meat products, if it's not modern market events, I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture to react today and not allow a reckoning with those whose only sin is that they've been successfully doing more than a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12671	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Velimir Ilic answered. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12672	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I want to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We expect the prime minister to come forward about this. Serbia is having big problems these days. The peasants are completely destroyed. The Serbian village has been completely destroyed. The latest is imports of powdered milk, which has led the Serb peasant to the most difficult position in the postwar period. You've begun your campaign to import tall cows and our peasant is in debt. You sold the heifers you imported for 2,300 euros and the entire villages are now in a difficult situation. Milk producers are in the most difficult situation there is. It's guaranteed a price of 34 dinar milk, and now it's reduced to 17 dinars and no one's going to buy it for 17 dinars. All over Serbia, I take as an example the Gruža, the Kragujevac region, Knic, Topol, the entire forest, no one buys milk at any price. These days, action started, thousands of gallons of milk spill. Let's take the village of Grivac, Gruža, it's a general mess; not that they can't pay off loans for the high-milk heifers they took, but they're in big trouble, they don't know what to do with the milk. Sabac has helped, interveningly buying out across Serbia, but it is not enough. That's why I'm asking the government to intervene urgently. We want to find out who imported the milk powder from Spain? Who ordered and blackmailed the producers of conditioning products to take milk powder in order to place the products in certain sales facilities? Who makes double money on it, and how does a peasant pay off the credit lines he's got? How can he overcome the crisis? The crisis has just begun. A unilateral respect for the agreement with the EU will further destroy the village by importing eggs, importing meat. Please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, this is a very serious topic. You come from certain cities, which as people's representatives, you completely destroy. You voted for this, not me. So listen carefully. We want the Prime Minister to address this problem, to overcome it. Please, so I don't go out again, you know we have big problems and great instability in both Vojvodina and Sandzak. We've come to the point that two ministers with their groups are fighting street fights, with direct transmissions of all televisions. What's this about? Is your government stable and secure after that chaos in Vojsca, which has not yet been overcome, following the statutes of Vojvodina and the announcement by the MP here at the pay phone that the constitution of Vojvodina will also work; after these problems due to unilateral compliance with the Agreement, following problems with the milk producers in Serbia? Let's not tell you about the rest of them, about meat producers, we totally destroyed the stock fund. Please get serious and consider these topics. Not to mention the flag, not to mention this problem we've put into the budget, certain funds. What about it? You all swore, you swore, you spoke, the European Union, let's go, let's go, come on. You remember Djelic's fire speeches for this pay phone. What now? What about the white Schengen leaf? Is it a condition that you must recognise the Merdare border crossing and define the state border between Serbia and Kosovo? It is a condition and you know it well, and you all keep quiet about it. Or are you going to admit something under the grain and accept it? Where are you taking us, gentlemen, this year? (President: Time, Mr. Ilichu, although you have answered on two topics. I'm done. Tomorrow, you will have thousands of gallons of milk scattered across the street across Serbia. He can't survive. You're doing something concrete. Forget the agreement with the EU and respect unilaterally. Why are you humiliating us? If they won't come with us, why should we be courting, talking and suing Russia and Ukraine, as one minister said this morning, that's breaking news. Let's sue everyone and argue with the whole world, and only him to survive and give us big lectures on big investments in Serbia. It's not going to be people, it's not going to be an investment. It's all destroyed. So, mind to the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12673	It's been twice as long, two themes. Thank you. Mr. Todorovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. In 225 and 226, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Faith, and in the wake of the unprecedented events in Montenegro, when Montenegrin police prevented the SPC priests from holding holy liturgy over St. John, because Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic strictly fulfil the orders of those who are trying to completely destroy the Serbian people. One of the ways they think they're doing it is completely dividing and breaking the SPC. This began after World War II, and it continues not only with unlimited intensity, but seems to be all so that the Serbian Orthodox Church, as one of the main pillars of the preservation of the Serbian people and the Serbian nation, would completely break down. What is particularly interesting is that our country is doing nothing on this plan, or doing the same thing that the communists did after 1945. We had the same situation a short time ago: unfortunately, the president of the Republic of Serbia tried to do everything to set up a patriarch, a man who would probably do all that Boris Tadic would do on his orders, just as Josip Broz Tito did. Especially here is our country's irresponsible relationship to the SPC. You remember how our country reacted inappropriately when Montenegro recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. They immediately expelled the Montenegrin and Macedonian ambassadors, leaving ambassadors of those countries who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija long before, who have done everything to force both Montenegro and Macedonia to recognise Kosovo's independence. I'm interested in what the Ministry of Faith, or what the foreign minister will do about it. How long will we tolerate this attitude towards the Serbian Orthodox Church, towards Serbia and the Serbian people? Not to say what position the Serbian people are in in Montenegro, that their rights have been absolutely violated, that they are practically completely disproved, and that our state is doing nothing and is doing nothing. Not by the way you've been acting before. You remember that the Serbian Radical Party has asked the Foreign Ministry a question, and here I am asking it again, and I warn you that we expect an answer, when it comes to the behaviour of some ambassadors, I mean, first of all, the Ambassador of Great Britain Steve Wardsworth, who criticised some political parties, or the SRS... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm ending up, and until today, we haven't received a single letter on this issue. I'm asking you, how long do you think you're acting like this? You can afford whatever you want; the ambassadors can step on you however they want, they can call you, they can give you orders. But we don't allow it. If you're in no condition to... Instead of throwing, think about one simple thing: if the Assembly has elected ministers, then these ministers should work in harmony with the interests of this country. I guess it's the foreign ministry's interest to do its job. One of the basic jobs is to protect its own state, its integrity and sovereignty and to prevent the involvement of ambassadors in our country's internal affairs. You are unable to send a single sentence of warning. And, Mrs Dejanovic, I think that you, as president of the Assembly, have been called and invited to protect the integrity of the Serbian Parliament and that it is inappropriate for foreign ambassadors to behave in this way when it comes to political parties. Do something, if you want to raise the Parliament's dignity, do something that will show the citizens of Serbia that you are really trying to do it, and don't let anyone do what they want and when they think about it and give an assessment of what kind of political party it is. I think you should act too, it's been almost 20 days and a few days since the English ambassador's statements. You said yourself that the letter was sent, and here, to this day there is not a single letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12675	The text is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of our assembly is in charge to discuss, possibly, the subject. We've sent a request. A stenogram of your complete discussion was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with your very specific request and my comment. We've done, we've done the same thing twice in this room; you're saying, I'm joining, that the Foreign Ministry should be informed and give its answer to that question. Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12676	President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I report to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226, and I ask you, Madam President, Minister of Trade, Minister of Agriculture and Finance, which is here, and it would be my turn to come out immediately for a pay phone and to suspend further reporting in the Rules of Procedure. It's about our farmers, peasants, who have been forced to spill thousands and thousands of gallons of milk these days. It is about the despair of people who are unhappy with the ruling coalition's decision to unilaterally implement a trade agreement with the European Union. I don't think I should remind anyone here that manufacturers from EU countries are protected by large subsidies, by state aids, and that, unfortunately, perhaps for justifiable reasons, because there is no money, farmers are not with us. So I'm asking again who allowed the import of powdered milk from Spain? Does this milk have all the athestics of competent health and sanitary organisations? Will someone answer to the citizens of Serbia if what happened in China, where thousands and thousands of citizens are infected with powdered milk? Does anyone before the ruling coalition here who voted for it, perhaps unaware of the consequences that the decision on a unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU has, feel some responsibility? Are there MPs in the ruling coalition coming from the same environments where we New Serbia's MPs come from? Do farmers, peasants, these days milk producers ask what they ask us? I believe they're asking you the same question, and you're also looking for answers. I know most of you voted for it. I know because until yesterday I was a member of the ruling coalition and I say it honestly and honestly, it votes for everything the government proposes, without thinking about the consequences that it can have on some layers of citizens in our country. I repeat, Madam President, it is your turn to answer how we will protect farmers, first of all our milk producers, from total destruction. A promotional programme for the purchase of heifers, cows that give a lot of milk; people bought those cows at 2,300 euros, counting on a price of 34 dinars for a liter of milk, now no one will buy the milk at a price of 15 dinars. What's left of these people? Not to mention meat producers, because now that chain... That is, the consequences of the unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU continue and our entire economy will be threatened. After all, not to be very obstinate, to ask you the most open – if we can unilaterally apply the trade agreement with the EU, then why are we struggling all these eight years, because, I realize that all MP groups are for Serbia to join the EU, why not unilaterally declare EU and NATO entry and leave these citizens alone and really start to deal with life issues, these little things that life means? President, I expect first of all an answer from you, responsibility from you and from the ruling coalition who voted in favour of this decision, which has destroyed hundreds of thousands of dairy producers at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12677	Thank you. The government and resolution ministries, meaning agriculture, trade and all other ministries, should practically formalise the issue from Mr Ilic and Mr Markic's discussions. We're all interested in answering that question. Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12678	I'm reporting from Article 201. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during a debate on the draft budget law on 29 December last year, I asked in which section, in which chapter, in which economic classification, gentlemen from the ministry, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you provided 1,250,000 euros to some possible snitches who would tell you where Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic are located. Meanwhile, Minister Rasim Ljajic said that someone who would do such a thing would not even have the obligation to pay taxes on it, because the state provided even a tax payment if someone who would betray Serbian heroes were found. Then, of course, I said and now I repeat what we think – it's almost impossible for this budget cost to happen, but the other day I asked again when I would get an answer to this question. One of the on-call ministers last week said the response in the government was prepared, that there were budget funds, but he couldn't say exactly. He said I'd get an answer in writing, because that's how he left the government. You, Madam Minister, told me the day before yesterday that you in your right mind would never allow budget funds to be used for these purposes. The question I asked on December 28th, and I repeated two days ago, is: if these are not budget funds, are these the five million euros needed by someone in the government... or someone, like in the Radovan Karadzic case, or before that, Slobodan Milosevic, someone who got the name of an APB five million dollars from the United States? For the sake of the public and for the citizens of Serbia who are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, although you in good sense, as you say, would not, the answer I received was signed by Slobodan Ilic, here says "p.o. I guess he's the Secretary of State, I don't know what this "p.o." means."I guess "by the authority of the minister," I guess. He says this way: "According to the Budgetary System Act, for unplanned purposes for which no appraisals have been carried out... "I don't understand what your unplanned purpose is when you've already published that discussion... or for purposes which, during the year, are shown not to have been sufficient appraisals, the funds are provided from the current budget reserve. Accordingly, in the event of a need for the said funds will be provided from the current budget reserve." So, you were still planning to pay up to 1,250,000 euros for the citizens of Serbia, a million for Ratko Mladic's head, and 250,000 for, according to your assessment, a cheaper head of Goran Hadzic, plus a tax that someone who would eventually rat out one of these two... (President: Time. Ma'am, I answered on the basis of article 201. So, you're willing to pay for those funds, but you're stealing those funds from the pockets of Serbian citizens. I asked you then, I ask you now: are you sure you have the consent of Serbian citizens who are full of the budget to pay their money for Serbian heroes' snitches? We are convinced that most Serbian citizens do not want it, that most Serbian citizens would never allow it. As Government, when it comes to the budget, you must act in harmony with the attention of a good host. You have to make sure that you get money in the budget from the people and that the distribution of these couples should be in accordance with the will of the people. So, don't play with it, pull this prize that you've called, you've called it free anyway. There are no traitors in Serbia, at least not in ordinary people, who are willing to sell neither Mladic nor Hadzic for any million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12679	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again report to members 225 and 226. Practically, I can say it is a continuation of this first announcement, related to events in Montenegro. To inform you, I assume you have read the paper and have been informed that from today the recruitment of members of the security forces of Kosovo begins. I ask a simple question both to the Ministry of Defence and to the President of the Republic: what will they do about it? Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic says Serbia has no mechanisms at the moment to prevent the formation of the security forces of Kosovo, but will use all diplomatic and legal arguments against such a decision. I ask a question, which arguments will it use? Guys, do we have any normal people representing this country? You've made the decision to accept Eulex. Is that why you decided to accept EULEX in order to really enable the formation of an independent state of Kosovo? Look what's done. How is it possible that something is happening in Kosovo and Metohija against Resolution 1244? It's possible because you've suspended UNMIK completely. You brought in Eulex, which was created on the basis of Marty Ahtisaari's plan and you have the creation of an army of Kosovo, an embryo of the Kosovo state. You go over it as if it happened in a local community – you will use all legal arguments against it. What exactly are you going to do against this? Why don't you ask the Security Council to discuss this matter? What awaits us is the recognition of Kosovo by Serbia. Everything leads to it, and there's no dilemma about it. You will have to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence very quickly because it will force you to do so, because you are, in fact, doing everything in accordance with the commands that are coming to you. That's what Srdja Trifkovic tells you. He says, "The government of Serbia will recognise Kosovo by 2011 and accept the normalisation of relations with all neighbours, as EU officials say, will offer a painful but imminent sacrifice to the altar of Eurointegration." For you, the EU has no alternative and you will, because there is no alternative, accept Kosovo and Metohija independence. There's no dilemma. Everything that's happening to us is happening that way. I just told you that Boris Tadic tried to impose his own patriarch. Here it is very clear and precisely defined, he says, "We can certainly expect this government to accept normalising relations with all neighbours by the end of 2011, which is what they told you, for them is the neighbour of Serbia and Kosovo, the state or the republic of Kosovo. You're like the one who stuck his head in the sand, pretend like nothing's going on. He says, "... and adds that the survival of such a government that will accept Kosovo's independence is possible regardless of all its lies and failures." That's what those who give you these orders tell you to lie and to make mistakes, and you can because the opposition is in this state, because they and you have contributed to the opposition being in that state. He says, "Trifkovic argues that recognition of Kosovo's statehood will include the Serbian Orthodox Church and that the government in Serbia and Republika Srpska has already begun to elect a similar successor of Patriarch Pavle, who will agree to the'survival' of Serbs in Kosovo, to establish a Kosovo Orthodox church. "(President: Time. ) What I told you, the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, the Kosovo Orthodox Church, are also trying in Croatia - the Croatian Orthodox Church, trying to do so in Bosnia, the complete destruction of the Serbian people. There's absolutely no dilemma in this matter, all the facts speak. Only your behavior and avoiding facing the truth and giving these answers further makes it difficult for this country and the citizens of Serbia. Stop deluding Serbian citizens more, face the problems facing the state, which the citizens of Serbia have faced, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and start acting as a normal state, if nothing else, to make it clear to the citizens and the world that you do not agree to these blackmails by those who want to completely destroy both Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12681	Thank you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12682	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the criminal action of the Kragujevci District Court, headed by the President of the Court of Justice Miroljub Tomic, is now in a different combination of the same judges of the District Court of Kragujevac, composed of Radovanko Nikolic, the President of the Court, Milunka Cvetkovic and Vesna Cvetkovic, members of the council, and the withdrawal of the SRS mandate, noting that until now the Serbian Radical Party in the forest municipalities has kidnapped 22 parliamentary mandates: in Kragujevac ten, in Knic five, in Lapovo four and the latest scandalous "judication" of three mandates from the SRS parliamentary list in the municipality of Rač. I would like to point out that the SRS is to this scandalous, criminal verdict of the District Court... Three of these judges will have to answer eventually and go to prison; I now repeat this from this assembly pay phone and I have the right to do so, because what these three ladies mentioned have done is a criminal offence, as well as previous judges of the previous councils. The violation of the electoral will of citizens achieved in the 11 May elections this year will not be tolerated until the end. Ms. Djukic-Dejanovic, due to the fact that this started in my and your town, in Kragujevac, by kidnapping ten parliamentary mandates, because of the fact that this continued to take place in the municipality of Knic, then in Lapovo, and now in Raca, I asked more than two months ago what it was doing and whether there was at all a republican public prosecutor who was in the status of V.d. for two years, Slobodan Radovanovic. On 31 October of this year, Mr Dragan Todorovic applied on behalf of the SRS to the municipality's public prosecutor in Kragujevac, who has so far not responded, for the initiation of criminal proceedings under the Serbian Criminal Code against these judges, three more, as well as the president of the council. Nothing happened. Ms. Djukić-Dejanovic, this is a major scandal, because on the basis of certified contracts, resignations, powers for voters of the electoral list – as is now the Serb Radicals committeeman Milan Milosevic from the birthplace of Karadjordje, from Vjevac, submitted as authorized and as the one who had the right to do so before SO Rač – it happened that after 14 days of silence or "enlargement" this larger, in this composition, by Radovan Nikolic, who may have been in a relationship, and we know that this criminal, Miroslav Tomic, friendly, tycoonska, however you will, with an outcast member of the SRS Tomislav Nikolic... This Radovanka Nikolic, and this Milunka Cvetkovic and this Vesna Cvetkovic, will decide one day by the competent state authorities, because I guarantee you that, at some point, these people have to answer for the criminal act they are doing – they are persistently calling (I apologize, here I will finish, Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, since we are otherwise in the coalition power in Raca and with your political party and with Mr Ilic and DSS) to the Law on Administrative Procedure which has no slight meaning, and this will explain to you every SRS lawyer, from the DS, wherever you want, with the Law on Local Elections and the simple thing that the District Court in Kragujevac, as every other judge in Serbia, except Kragujevac, reads the Law on local elections... (President: Time. ..... Article 49(2) and (3) and simply apply the law. These people do not want to apply the Law on Local Elections and continue to kidnap and end the electoral will of the people in Shumadia. If they think they're in the position of someone who's going to represent some political weight or some factor... (President: Time Miss Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... Here, I end, if Miroljub Tomic thinks that with the help of such a tycoon and a thief such as Nikolic to reach the President of the Court of Appeals, he is wrong, because we will do everything, everywhere and in every place, to stamp him and all these judges individually. I warn the Kragujevac public, the public of Šumadija, the entire Serbian public that against such violence and against the end of the electoral will, citizens and citizens should raise their voice. We will continue with extraordinary legal medicines, but we will use all other means to express our protest over the fact that the electoral will of citizens, all those who voted for Serbian radicals and Professor Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12683	Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12684	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, almost every day daily and Sunday papers in Serbia, convey information, namely Tomislav Nikolic's moaning that Vojislav Seselj is working on his head, that is to organise his murder. This isn't the first time, of course. As early as last year, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic buried Serbia's public with false information that a certain Miko Gajic from Krtkovic threatened to kill Tomislav Nikolic, so that a simple check in police records would be found that a man under such a name does not exist, does not live in Hrtkovci. Afterwards, they launched false news that a certain Duke of Vasilija of Zemun is also working on the murder of Tomislav Nikolic, although a man is gravely ill and cannot do much simpler things in life, let alone kill someone. Today, a Belgrade weekly, it doesn't matter which one, conveyed an interview with Tomislav Nikolic in which he again accuses Vojislav Seselj of organising his murder. This is, first of all, one terrible charge for Ivica Dacic and the Ministry of the Interior. I think it is high time the Ministry of the Interior and, above all, Ivica Dacic, as the first deputy prime minister of the government and as interior minister, informed the MPs and citizens of Serbia whether Vojislav Seselj is indeed organising the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. Vojislav Seselj cannot be defended for objective reasons against such accusations and the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party on his behalf ask the question. So, we ask that this thing be cast out to cleanup – is it true that Vojislav Seselj is organising the murder of Tomislav Nikolic? If that is not true, and we argue that it is not true, the Ministry of Interior and the competent authorities against Tomislav Nikolic must take legal measures to spread false news, at a time when the process against Vojislav Seselj, a mounted political process, is nearing its end and when Vojislav Seselj should definitely triumph over The Hague tribunal. It is obvious that these charges are calculated to make its procedural position more difficult for Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj has already proved that he is absolutely not guilty. Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, ladies and gentlemen, you can follow that when you watch Vojislav Seselj's trial, at least defends yourself. What he's doing is defending Serbia and the Serbian people from one terrible accusation that you should be interested in, which is that we Serbs are to blame for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and all the evils that have happened in its area. So I repeat once again, the Serbian Radical Party is asking the Interior Ministry to go public with information on whether what Tomislav Nikolic claims is true, that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague is organising his murder.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12685	The word has the People's MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12686	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226, and I'd like to ask two questions. When will the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija schedule a session of the Committee, given that there have been major incidents in Kosovo and Metohija early this year, especially in northern Kosovo and Metohija, given that the poor security situation for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija has deteriorated significantly anyway? The second thing, Kosovo's security forces are starting to operate today. So this is no news for Serbs and Serbian politicians, given that KLA has become a KLA formation; this is a transitional period, or rather an embryo of the creation of the Kosovo army. Do you know how dangerous it is for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? NATO forces will train them. One day it may happen that they march with NATO's help to clean Serbian environments and cause major incidents. If Kosovo's security forces are known to be made up of KLA members, and the KLA has committed major war crimes against Serbs, then you are well aware of what can be expected of such forces. I'm hearing statements from our officials these days that say we're going to be pushing for a break-up. Why haven't we advocated their formation by now? Do we always react late, when something happens, and then react not to be? So, there is a time of our reaction and we need to be prepared to talk, first of all, about the six points that follow us and which are, above all, technical nature, and then really advocate bringing Pristina to a negotiating table and talking about a status solution. This is very important for Belgrade, because for us, Kosovo and Metohija status has not been resolved yet. There is knowledge that Deputy Minister of Security Fehmi Mujote will be a Serb. So my message from here is that no Serb participates in Kosovo's security forces, no matter how much they were in a difficult financial situation. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were abolished so-called Kosovo's 50% supplement at a time when Serbs are in the most difficult situation. Whether the funds are properly allocated and what has happened so far is truly unknown. I have another question for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the issue of the reintegration of Serbs into Kosovo institutions. So, back in time, Serbs have been returning to Kosovo institutions for the sake of receiving money from 150 euros to 200 euros. I ask the question of what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija on this matter? One day, gentlemen, very quickly, Albanians and Eulex will say this – what you gentlemen are talking about, so Serbs themselves, and individually, integrate into Kosovo institutions and especially after Kosovo's declaration of independence. I think it is very dangerous and that at this point both the Ministry and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija must act urgently and alarmingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12687	The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 104 and I'm asking a very simple question of the ruling opposition: do you know what a distracted person means? Do you know what it means when at one point you claim one thing or do one thing and at another moment you do another? When you notice it, Mrs. Slavica will explain it to you, then there are ways of trying... (President: I'm sorry. [[Disabled microphone.]] If I hadn't said something, God forbid you didn't protect the name, so I did, and not knowingly, a mistake. I can agree with almost everything the previous MP has said, except for this finding and a request to start talking to Pristina. There is no conversation with Pristina, absolutely no conversation. That's what they're trying to impose on us. Serbia must not agree to this at all. Serbia can only talk to the UN and no one else when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely no more, only with the UN alone, and based on Resolution 1244. When it comes to this, were you in the ruling majority talking before this happened? Those forces didn't begin to form yesterday. Since when do we tell you that these forces are beginning to form, that they are trained by the NATO Pact, or by the Americans, that 99%, if not 100% of those future security forces, that is, the armies of Kosovo and Metohija, terrorists, are members of the KLA. You're telling us now that there's something to be done. You call on Serbs not to participate in these formations. My people, what does this look like? Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic was minister in the Kosovo government by 2004. You urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections. We were against it, we told you how much damage it is, how much trouble it will cause to Serbia. You've been coming out here and calling for some things that you've been doing since the beginning, since 2001, since DOS came to power when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. These are the orders you are fulfilling that Kosovo slowly becomes an independent state. I would ask a simple question: if you are standing in these positions (I have no reason at all to understand right now, that I doubt that you honestly believe this), how can you be in the same government with people who allow this to happen in Kosovo and Metohija? I really don't understand that. How can someone who makes such remarks and in the most difficult way accuse the government of anti-state action, for the greatest possible damage, remain in the government? I'll return you immediately to the issue of the gas deal; one part of the government is against the agreement, and the other one is against the agreement. Guys, there's something wrong with you. Come on, Ms. Slavica, you try on behalf of the profession to help overcome these problems, because this really doesn't make sense either to the Assembly or to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12689	The word is Mr. Aligrudic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12690	I have to react to what was brought out by Mrs. Petkovic. So, of course, when it comes to the security forces of Kosovo, so-called, it is all as it is said. No Serb should participate, nor should the state of Serbia accept it. But, you know, ladies and gentlemen, the ruling coalition in which you're involved has so far accepted. All those things that you've accepted together, agreeing between yourselves or under some outside pressure, have created the impression that anything there is possible. If you're under pressure to accept the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which we all wanted together... Because it is not about the fact that, let's say, the Democratic Party of Serbia was against European association, not even today, but a certain moment had its own political challenge, and that challenge is the one you have bought because it served each other's purpose, not the European association, because the European association, as you can see, has never occurred. We are prepared to unilaterally apply an agreement to the harm of Serbian citizens, without the EU being ready to still - not even give signals, taking out a Kobajagi on one EU country not to allow it, and we all know it is a game – that this trade agreement is being activated at all. So, the ruling coalition, first of all, Boris Tadic and DS have settled or deliberately done whatever it is wrong for Serbia, to play a game with the EU and the United States, which has actually opened a smoking typhoon door and will diverge Serbia's territorial integrity. That's what you all did. I don't mean to accuse you of complaining about what's going on, it's natural. Then you have to think about what kind of environment you're in, you have to think about whether your party friends and your coalition partners and those who work with you in the ruling coalition think about what you put out as a problem. I don't think that, as they don't think about it, as they are hastily looking at someone to talk to, thinking that some of the economic benefits for Serbia will fall from the sky automatically. Similarly, according to the same chicken logic, they are not able to protect Serbia's economic interests, regardless of Kosovo and Metohija's problems. We are witnessing Serbia's full economic collapse today, but we will only be, as it will come. It's not the opposition's fault. It's the fault of those who can't organize government. That means, dear Mrs. Petkovic, that's twice as naked. This wasn't really so much a replica of you, so I don't feel like you should be called, but this was an opportunity, based on your discussion based on what I'm reporting, that I'm taking another turn with your colleagues from the ruling coalition, and who knows how many times later, to remind myself of what they've been doing and what they're not doing right now, and they should be doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12691	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a citizen and a National MP, I am very surprised by the presentation of MP Velimir Ilic. Is that possible? As we can see, it is possible to obstruct the resources that our country has made possible to buy, which are high-quality heifers and cows that give high-litre milk. The peasants are dissatisfied with importing artificial milk, and they want to show our country that milk spilling move, which is of paramount importance. Is our country and our ministry... Or I appeal to the Ministry of Health to ban imports of artificial food, especially when it comes to milk. I just want to say that we must not forget that during the aggression on our country, there are tons and tons of poor uranium and that our citizens are suffering the consequences of that and today. Do we need to import artificially besides natural milk? It is terrible for me, and I hope for all of you, the honourable Members of the people, because it is an attack on the health of us and our children. We all know that we have a lot of natural resources in our country and that we are a strong economy nation, and here, now we have to become an artificial nation. I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Industry and cattle, to prohibit artificial food and to realize the production of domestic milk, which is healthy for our children and for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12693	He has the word Mr. Fired Mihajlovic. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12694	I'm reporting from two members, 225 and 226. I'm going to take a little detour from the main course of this debate on Kosovo and Metohija. On the basis of these two members, I want the Minister of Information, excuse me, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic to explain what this is about. In fact, I am constantly receiving threats from members of the Serbian Progressive Party. In particular, last night I received a threat from Gavril Kovacevic, one of the prominent members of the Serbian Progressive, Vanparliamentary, a party that threatened me, my wife and my son. It's not the first time. Before this, I mentioned to Mr. Odalovich, the secretary of our assembly, that I was getting these threats. He told me to turn down the written path and see what he could do. I appreciate his efforts, and I think it may be a normal path. However, I find that a little strange, and therefore I address Mr. Ivica Dacic, we have all witnessed that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, a man who failed with his attempt to crack the SRS, had also reproduced through this pay phone and through the media that he had received no protection he had asked for and that the police had just arrived at his door. We've heard that in multiple variations, in multiple places. Now I wonder why I have to write to be protected or explained to me what this is about. To clarify, Gavrilo Kovacevic and his brother Damir Kovacevic are direct perpetrators of the will of Aleksandr Vukic, a man who is an ideologist and perhaps the chief technologist in the performance of this failed coup in the SRS, a man charged with emotions, who gathered around him a team of the worst people he could find in Zemun. His captain, since all of this has happened to me before, before the war, in Sarajevo, where I was born, in a town where Ustashas threatened me in the same way, so his captain is Brane Prosper, who commands these black legions, I'm really not exaggerating, because these are people who dress in black and in groups walking around Zemun, scaring all the members of the SRS they know and who don't know, whose data they somehow came up with. So, the nomenclature of this structure looks like this: Alexander Vukic, therefore, is the head; immediately beneath him is Brane Prosper, the man who also organized that shameful visit to the Republika Srpska Krajina, after which people must not leave their houses, hide with the first darkness. So immediately after this captain come the Kovacevic brothers with their father. It is about Gavril and Damir Kovacevic, who are probably known to the Serbian public for their dishonest performance on Croatian television when they threw the passports of the Republic of Serbia saying they had nothing and literally spit on the ground on which they walk. Of course, that is not true, and all that truth is so not spoken of in the land that helped you save your head and start a new life. These are rich people who have no idea how many houses and pay throughout Belgrade, especially in Zemun. I know what this is about. They lost their nerve because they were expecting to take the Zemun municipality away from us. Now they've lost ground under their feet because things don't go the way they thought. However, is this the way we have seen so far in Kosovo and Metohija, which also exists today in Republika Srpska and in some of its border areas – mujahedins who have received BiH citizenship threatening the Serbian population, is this how discussions should be conducted, political debates in Serbia, to threaten each other? (President: Time. ) I must say in the end, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I am taking the opportunity to have Mr. Nikolic come in here right now. Mr. Nikolic, I consider these threats to me and my family the most responsible you are. In your personal dealings with Vojislav Seselj, in which there is no ideology and politics, you involve ordinary people, who need for the sake of your success and your well-being to kill each other. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12695	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12696	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, except for our boss, Mr Todorovic, I address all the legitimate presidents of the parliamentary groups under Article 68. The Rules of Procedure, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not formed a committee on economic reforms since the constitution of this call. The Committee on Economic Reforms met in the previous assembly only one time, in a joint session of the Privatisation and Economic Reform Committee when we discussed some issues of bank privatisation in Serbia. The initiator of the meeting was then co-chairman Novakovic, who was chairman of the Privatisation Committee. It is necessary to establish a Committee on Economic Reform as soon as possible to raise the issue of the Kragujeva flag and this latest scandal that upset the entire city, particularly representatives of the independent union and all employees. The fact is that Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, made a statement a few days ago that the agreement on the realisation of the strategic partnership with the Fiat would be ten months late. But it's not just ten months, it's a question, it's all on a long stick, it's at least two more years of waiting and uncertainty about the issues I raised several times the other day from the assembly pay phone, and then a fellow Popovic and DSS joined in doing so, that we don't have a business-plan of Italy's "Fiita". That, of course, was recognised by the director, Mr. Radojevic of Kragujevac, who said that we do not know if there will be any of these 200 million investments, as they promised us from the Italian side until March 31st, because now everything and how complicated it was. It is not just the fate of all the Kragujevac employees, where elections were won in our city, and I am convinced that this was a key factor in the definition of Serbian citizens to vote in favour of the list of so-called European Serbia. The fact is that everything has now fallen into the water, that nothing is as it seemed in the first wave and as it was pompously announced in the campaign. It's about the fate of 133 other flag cooperatives, it's about the uncertainty for each individual and for all those people and members of their families, whether they're going to lose their jobs, what's going to happen in this difficult global financial crisis, in a recession that the Italians themselves recognize, because they're also looking for new reinforcements and new strategic integration. With the right, all day long today and yesterday, the representatives of the Kragujeva Free Union of the car shoplifting factory are scrambling. Not only them, but all the citizens, who are and how upset they are, because this is, I must admit, in our city, but in all of Serbia echoed like a bomb, people are scared. I think that is why it is necessary, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic – I believe that you will support me in this effort, for the best of all, in order to present to the public what is actually going on and what is going to happen next with the Kragujevaska flag – that the Committee on Economic Reforms is formed as soon as possible. He is the only one in our rules of procedure responsible for considering economic development plans and therefore asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a business-plan and for us to be presented by Resolute Minister Mladjan Dinkic and other ministers, Mrs Dragutinovic, in the end, because we allocate so much funds from Serbia's budget to finance the project, what will continue to happen. There are conditions, due to the fact that 12 members of that committee who count 21 members are representatives from many other committees, that I am not now quoting this article 68. The Rules of Procedure, since these other committees have been established, all conditions have been met, only to elect nine members of this Committee on Economic Reform, to establish and elect a president and to take the control role. Because that's the only way we can act, call the flag management, the ministers mentioned, and see what it's really about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12697	The initiative is now in place. Since all the committees that are to give their representatives to the Committee on Economic Reform have been formed, thanks to the initiative, it is absolutely timely. There's only one other committee we haven't set up, and that's the board of performances and proposals, so these are the two committees that we need to form by the end of this week and work on forming them. Now according to the Rules of Procedure, there are a dozen other MPs, Mr Mirko Munjic is the first among them, then Mrs Stojanka Petkovic, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic, and then in turn. We'll write it all down. I'd like to ask you in as short a time as possible to finish the topics that are significant. We had a deal, the heads of the parliamentary groups and Vice President Komic, when we scheduled today's session, that we would really work on the agenda to bring this session to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12698	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I have a few questions for Police Minister Ivica Dacic. First question, what did he do for the knowledge and application of the assassination attempt on the president of the SNS? Has it been determined who tried the assassination, who ordered the assassination and when it was? In general, all the relevant things and facts about it. Next, what has been done by Serbia's MUP on reports that are being placed in newspapers and in the public today that individual houses, including in Belgrade, are loaded with explosives? Is that true, is that determined and does Serbia's MUP have any knowledge of it? There are three scenarios here. First, if that is true, it is necessary for the MUP to react by investigating, processing and raising certain criminal reports and ultimately informing the public, so as not to cause public anxiety. The second scenario is, unless it's true, normally, criminal charges are raised against the one who places such false information in public. The third scenario, if Serbia's MUP really doesn't have the strength to investigate this, should be fair and say so, it is known what comes next. I have a question for President Boris Tadic. The text of the oath by the president reads among other things: "I swear I will dedicate all my strengths to respecting and defending the Constitution and the law, preserving the peace and well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will faithfully and responsibly fulfil all my duties." So the biggest responsibility for all developments in the Republic of Serbia has exactly the president of the state, Boris Tadic. I'll remind you, and also him, the Russian writer Yuri Bondarev told President Gorbachev - Mr. President, you've raised this plane high, and do you know where we're going to land? A question like this should also be asked by Boris Tadic. This plane he runs, which is called the state of Serbia, has been raised high and is in great turbulence now. Does the president of Serbia simply work to develop a general national strategy to save Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12699	Mrs Stojanka Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12700	Let me explain some things. The fact that Mr. Todorovic wanted to use my well-intentioned discussion for some kind of promotion... I want to say that I am someone who is a member of the ruling coalition, and who will at any time give good ideas or possibly criticise something that is not good, regardless of whether it is a ruling coalition or opposition, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, because it is simply a national interest. So, I want to say that I am one of the participants in the Kosovo institutions in 2001, but at the invitation of Mr Kostunica, then the president of the SRJ, and at the invitation of Patriarch Paul. Then and never again. Never did the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor did any Serbian politician, invite Serbs to participate in Kosovo's security forces. Even when they participated in the KPC, no one advised them. To clarify, there is a danger that they will participate because of the financial situation, because Serbs live in enclaves in a very difficult situation. That's why I suggested that it wouldn't happen again, because at this point it would be very dangerous. The second question is whether we should talk to Pristina at the negotiating table. I argue that we should talk to Pristina, with the UN and EU presence, because it is the only way we can come up with a peaceful and stable solution that will be verified in the Security Council. It is something that will contribute to lasting peace and stability for everyone in Kosovo and Metohija, thus also in the Balkans. These were some of my intentions, to suggest to the ruling coalition what to do at this time; the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija should ambush and see what recommendations we should give and what to do. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are scared because they do not know what to do with them further; they are aware that they are making Kosovo security forces that can move into the Kosovo army, which means that it will verify a state, which is a danger to the survival of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry if I'm misunderstood. I'll always speak well-intentioned and suggest something that someone doesn't think is important at this point, but I think it is, since I'm someone who lives there, works and whose family exists there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12701	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Mrs. Petkovic, I absolutely didn't want to say a single word about you, I just wanted to compare it, when an individual comes to the position that a person is divided, that in that case he needs help, that is to say, that the medicine is trying to give him help. When it happens to the government or the ruling majority, one to the left, the other to the right, that assistance should be indicated in another way. If I wanted to talk about you personally and your stranger I'd ask a question, first of all, morale. Do you even have the moral right to invite Serbs not to participate in these new security forces? That right belongs to one who can prove it in his past. Here you have now said that you were an MP after 2001, at the invitation of Vojislav Kostunica and Patriarch Paul. That's not true. First of all, Patriarch Paul never called, he called on the bishop Artemis, but he is not a patriarch. Then you participated, at a time when it was the government of Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj. You were an MP at the time, and you participated in the work of a ministry. Also, Dragan Nikolic, who is now head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, participated in the government's work, as well as Oliver Ivanovic. Then how can you invite Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija not to participate in these forces? I welcome that invitation, but you have no moral right to invite them. Among other things, Mrs. Petkovic, you know where your son works. He works in Kosovo customs, it is an indisputable fact. Why do you have the moral right to invite Serbs not to participate anywhere when it comes to the institutions of the new state? The very fact that you are talking about the fact that you think you should talk to Pristina is enough talking about it. What Pristina? Who represents this Pristina? Pristina was discussed at a time when it could be discussed, when Kosovo and Metohija were part of Serbia. Today, when you... Thanks to the fact that you've made it possible for Eulex to come and suspend Resolution 1244, you're just finishing the work that the Americans are about to finish. What I was telling you, that Kosovo is a neighbour of Serbia, how can you negotiate with Pristina? What do you have to talk to Pristina? (President: Time. I'm done. There is Resolution 1244 and only and exclusively within the framework of Resolution 1244. If the government had done so since 2001, we wouldn't be in this situation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12703	The word is Mrs Lidija Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12704	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable presidents, today we are discussing different topics in the Assembly, and I do not think they are all irrelevant or less important than what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. You just said that this afternoon’s congregation work could be called work by the Rules of Procedure. I would be happy that each of the MPs would come out and talk about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, how to prevent that horror that we are able to watch or read about every day. That would not be unusual and would not be foreign to the Serbian parliament. We have experienced that now from former terrorists, conditioned formerly, if terrorists can at all be former, who have been extracting organs from Serbs, who have been killing them, who have taken them away, in Kosovo and Metohija, they are building security forces under the direct EU patronage. How kind the EU is and how keenly it wants to help us, we have had the opportunity to make sure so far. Since all the talks and negotiations that our foreign minister and the president of the state and others have gone to, we have come to the idea of building a security force from terrorists. In parallel with the creation of these security forces in Kosovo, it is not impossible to expect them to try to build an Orthodox church in Kosovo, leading to the destruction of a Serbian national being. You all know, not only here in the hall, but the citizens of Serbia know how devastating it is and how terrible it is for Serbian identity and for our people. What is also tragic and what we have every day to listen to, is that the EU daily sets an ultimatum on how we should recognise Kosovo's independence, because if we recognise Kosovo's independence, we can join the EU. Don't you think it's too big a bite, don't you think it's a game because they can? It's said - the power of God doesn't pray, but God doesn't love force either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12705	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric has a word, please. Then Srboljub Zivanovic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Jovan Damjanovic, Vladimir Milentijevic, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Milan Avramovic, Stojanka Petkovic again applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are aware that the MPs of the SRS are considering legislative proposals and amendments in the most professional way possible. Most often, they were not satisfied with the laws adopted by the congregation, but after that we respect them. Much more, it seems to me, than the laws should be respected, above all, by the Constitution. Twenty-four and twenty-seven. Article 24. The Constitution guarantees the right to live, and the 27th right to freedom and security. I apologize for going back to the National Assembly session today for a moment. On the basis of Art. In 225 and 226, I ask for an explanation from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of the Interior, as the SRS advocates the security of all citizens, including the security of Tomislav Nikolic if it is in any way endangered. Namely, he made a statement in a weekly list where he said the police weren't investigating an assassination attempt on me. I gave Tadic addresses to houses in Belgrade full of weapons and explosives, and nothing was done on this issue. SRS MPs are interested in whether such a request was sent to the MUP by Tomislav Nikolic, did the interior ministry take a position on the matter or go into regular legal procedure? It seems to me that Tomislav Nikolic, if what I can read is true, and I will not convince but quote, today represents a man who is really developing a hate speech. Fellow MPs, pay attention to only three statements he made in the text: "If it wasn't for radicals, there would be no enmity in the Assembly." It is said by Tomislav Nikolic, who for 18 years was a member of the SRS. The bigger problem is the following, Madam President, you will have to answer this question, the list of people I address is now expanded: "Most parties are eggs watching where they will hire one of their own. They hang out in public enterprises, the embassies of Serbia have nothing but damage." President of the Assembly, try to answer this question. There's something more dangerous than these two statements. He says, "There are people in Republika Srpska who are doing dirty work around Belgrade. "Tomislav Nikolic is trying to insinuate brothers in Serbia and Republika Srpska in a certain way. Maybe Tomislav Nikolic's life is in danger. I'm not saying so, but there is a possibility that he might be threatened by his deputy, the tycoon, by foreign embassies, because he says the SNS is profiled according to the needs of people who are members of this party and the needs of foreign embassies. I can't help Tomislav Nikolic. Maybe Vojislav Seselj can help him. Perhaps Dragan Todorovic, as head of the SRS parliamentary group, can help him in some way. If there's any need, speak to them. I think this should stop, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, if what I've read is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12707	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sreto Peric has not asked any questions to the president of the National Assembly, so he cannot get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12708	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I want to ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, to this assembly as the highest legislative body. You can see how this foreign policy of Serbia is run when Sonja Licht is in it. You must know, and probably every Serbian citizen has thought about the Eulex issue. You said, as well as President Boris Tadic and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, that all this is fine and that it is under UN auspices. Is it the destruction of the Protection Corps or the setting up of new, terrorist, that I call them, the unit or those who are eager for Serbian blood again on that misery to destroy what is called Serbia? Serbia has always been the last of Europe's defences. Serbia has always been a Taraba, Serbia has always been thorns to protect flower Europe. What about the Europe that needs to protect Serbia now? Europe does not have, or Europe has, but Europe has a different view, which is to destroy Serbs, not only Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but also Serbs in their own country. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the government's concern in the last five or six months towards Kosovo Serbs and the non-Albanian population, it's nothing. Would you or MPs be without electricity for five, six, fifteen hours, such as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? What did the government do to help the Serbs? She didn't do anything. Did she make the Serbs protect them, get their medications, get them food for life, heat? The government didn't do anything. For this assembly speaker, I point out that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and the non-Albanian population need you when you need votes. Then you lie to them. Then you manipulate them. You didn't do anything. Some who have been chosen to run certain ministries, for Kosovo and Metohija, not to mention their names, and in the previous period, which is why you do not look at their property map, as well as how rich they are, how much of the funds the government has provided and which have not arrived at the destination where they should have arrived? Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we all need to know. The cell tower was the largest monument ever made, from the skull and bone of Serbs. Even in Turkishism, it was meant to show how strong or how to prevent the patriotism and patriotism that was in the Serbs. But you don't allow it. Did any tycoon build any factories? Has any tycoon helped any family in Kosovo and Metohija? (President: Time. It's not. Ladies and gentlemen, that's your shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12709	National MP, you have not asked a specific question to any authority or organisation with a request for the information you need. I warn you, this is an abuse of an agreement on the use of an article. 225 and 226. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12710	I am looking for information necessary not only for my work and the work of the other MPs, but also for the citizens who are persistently calling us and insisting that we ask questions that are vital to them and their trust in the institutions of the system. At this point, you don't know what's less, whether there's trust or an institution in the system. Question number one is why did only the shadow prime minister Cvetkovic, Dacic, Dinkic, Djelic and Krkobic confirm their presence at the famous meeting of the assembly's Energy Committee, when they all have no influence on the energy situation together, because all problems solve a person in the role of president, factually and prime minister and uncrupulous Serbian King Boris Tadic? How many decisions will this committee make without him and his closing words? After all, in this recent mess of gas release, I am the director of "Srbijas" Dusan Bajatovic found himself in a situation to get chestnuts out of the fire by being responsible for everything and everything, and in the end he is blown off with negotiations, because he is "only" Dusko Bajatovic, not like "a beautiful Bora" who had to turn out the main fairy tale this time, and he brought gas and gas into Serbia and Bosnia. It's still going to turn out that they don't have any connections there, some Timoshenko or Putin, but it's already the main fairy tale of the beautiful Bora, the one that can even shut down and release the gases, I think this is the right form of gas. Therefore, everything this committee, including this assembly, will discuss is completely worthless until he is gone, which is in an easy conflict of interest, because the president, the prime minister, the president of national councils, but we at least showed the Americans that some of Obama's fans cannot have as much influence as the "nice Bora". Question number two, since today with its presence, if God will, the prime minister in the shadow of Cvetkovic, Dinkic, Djelic, I have a question that each of them can answer, although I prefer Mr Dinkic to answer that question. Mr Dinkic recently said that Serbia should sue both Russia and Ukraine over the gas crisis, because Russia and I have a gas supply contract, and Ukraine is responsible for the suspension of transit and says this way: "should our citizens pay for negotiations between Russia and Ukraine? If this is not done, these two countries can behave like this every year." We from New Serbia and Serbian citizens have a question - should our citizens pay for the arrogant and irresponsible behaviour of the entire government, especially Minister Dinkic? He showed that Serbian Baron Minhauzen, a specialist in the destruction of everything good. He destroyed the business of decades, exchanged concessions, deceived citizens about actions, and in fact joined the ranks of those who were heirs to Jazda and Dafina, meaning those who spoke of pyramidic enriching. He prevented the gas agreement from being signed and now we have no problem with the gas situation, he deceived the workers of the flag, so Zoran Mihajlovic, president of the Independent Car Flag, will today say that due to the delay... (President: It's three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... Just to finish the sentence, this business with the Fiat has to be re-produced by our spending "South." It is also an opportunity for Boza Djelic to re-promotion the "Yugo convertible" this time at the destroyed factory "Stava".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12711	National MP Jovan Damjanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12712	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all informed through the printed media to establish the Kosovo Protection Corps. This is another attack on our country and our territory. We all know that they have committed genocide against Serbian, Roma and other nations and have driven the citizens away to take our territory. The formation of the Kosovo Protection Corps is nothing more than the formation of an army of the state of Kosovo and Metohija, and the Cypriots in one uncivilised way want to kidnap some of the Serbian territory, apparently the international community. This is not defined by any legal act, so their existence directly violates UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Our state and foreign ministry can and should speak to the UN, because, according to United Nations Resolution 1244, only the United Nations is competent in Kosovo and the factor to be discussed with. Any official conversation of our representatives with the Shiptars would be a betrayal of our territory, Kosovo and Metohija. Our country must initiate and must seek talks with all ambassadors in our country, it must inform the Council of Europe and friends in the European community, since we have many, and must initiate directly in the Security Council a session at which a decision would be taken to disband this Corps, because no point of international law is allowed what is happening in Kosovo. I hope this time that our country will do whatever is necessary in diplomacy, in international contexts, and that finally the international community, the United Nations... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure you wish to speak of. ) Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12713	You haven't asked a single question, People's Parliament, and you don't ask for any information. Please, I warned MP Srboljub Zivanovic that he was abused by an article. The 225th and 226th do not go beyond a silent agreement on the use of that member, and that the bar, form, does, ask the appropriate question that you are interested in, specify which information you are looking for, as well as the body and organisation you are looking for information from. National MP Dejan Radenkovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12714	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, please, since this is the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, it is an unfortunate subject that we are constantly bringing up and abuse for the assembly speaker to collect political points... I am currently the current deputy president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Unfortunately, that committee doesn't have a president yet, I don't want to take this subject for any reason. We know what's happened in the past. As far as the session is concerned, it's in my jurisdiction to schedule them. I wouldn't want those committee sessions, and some of them I chaired... I must take the moment to inform the public, and also the MPs who do not know, these are very painful sessions, in my opinion, at which a debate is being held that is not constructive and does not lead towards improving the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I have always advocated that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved by consensus. As for the appointment of the Committee meetings, when I became vice president, I was told by my older colleagues that this had been agreed earlier, so I see no reason why we would not agree, hold a session and arrange the agenda. In principle, as a member of the ruling majority, I must first of all express great anxiety and anxiety here. It will now hear Serbian citizens who may not have the opportunity to read "The Unity", which is distributed and sold both in theatres throughout Belgrade and in Kosovo and Metohija, a list where on the front page we have the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, MPs from the ruling coalition and other state officials who deal with the lives of people in Kosovo and Metohija, and on the back side is one ad calling for "All the rocks needed, become part of Kosovo's security forces", where one Albanian, one Serb, is signed and I think this is a Turk. It's simply inadmissible and it's a question for the Ministry of Culture. This list is funded by the state of Serbia. I think this list of people can only cause confusion and confusion, because there are government officials, and then you end up with this ad. It may have been paid, but it is simply inadmissible that there is a sign of Kosovo forces, if the entire state leadership, headed by Boris Tadic, and the Serbian government absolutely opposes the formation of these security forces. These security forces cannot bring stability to the region, it is clear to all, members of these Kosovo security forces should be terrorists who were in the Kosovo Protection Corps. We know they didn't give any results. What matters to us is that we continue to insist on implementing Resolution 1244, which guarantees us integrity and sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. I would really like to ask that I no longer question the assembly speaker on the subject, I appeal to the opposition and to the Serbian Radical Party that as soon as possible, I am ready, if necessary, during the day, since, as far as I am.... (President: It's three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... I end, as far as I'm concerned, the position of the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija belongs to the Serbian Radical Party; I would pray that the heads of Parliament finally agree on what to do with that committee. I think he should work and have a president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12715	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12716	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225 and 226, calculating that it will not be interpreted as obstructing the work of the Assembly, given that the debate on Kosovo security forces dominated the mid-day session. It's nothing new to me. After all, for all those who warned this National Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia is nothing new, because what Marty Ahtisaari predicted was in his plan. There's no dilemma. Here we can waste time and fully agree with Mr Radenkovic that this topic should not be extended, and I will say for what reasons. In fact, tomorrow at 14:00 hours in Kosovo, Mitrovica, the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija is scheduled. It is, if I am not mistaken, the seventh assembly, attended by none of the representatives of the government, from the cabinets of the president of the Republic of Serbia, nor by the MPs in this assembly, except me and Mr Kragovic. I think it's a chance for all these dilemmas to be solved and arranged, to make a move, to eventually save what can be saved, just tomorrow's session. All the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija were invited to the session, representatives of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, the Government of the Republic of Serbia were invited and, I believe, the cabinet of the President of the Republic. I request a notice from all those who are invited to attend tomorrow's session of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, where we will discuss everything that is here now as a surprise. Are we ready to attend this session of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities, which depicts the second majority in relation to the Republika Srpska Assembly? I'm asking all of you if, about, that's why none of the representatives of the majority, the authorities, are coming to that session of the Assembly? I think it's inadmissible and that's the main problem that weighs on us living in Kosovo and Metohija. I warned several times, at least 20 times, what would happen, not using hard words, given that we live down there, so as not to cause a divide between the parties that united that Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Tomorrow is a test for all MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, tomorrow is a test for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia and tomorrow will be seen what anyone thinks and thinks about Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12717	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. The 225th and 226th, and I demand a reply from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, and from the government, what will they do about the increasingly frequent attacks that have been happening since the new year in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica? The incident, which took place on January 4th 2009, when two Serbs, Bato Djordjevic and Petar Gusnic, were beaten, is the fourth incident in the last week in which Serb attacks were targeted. According to deputy commanding police stations in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica Predrag Vasovic, police interventions avoided a wider incident. According to him, there was a lack of response from KFOR troops, who in the Bosniak neighbourhood waved at two Serbs the same day and beat them up. More and more frequent incidents in Kosovo's Mitrovica are a continuation of pressure on Serbs to leave their hearths. Such an incident could also be expected following former Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Ceku's statement that control in northern Kosovo should also be established by force. Oliver Karten, a professor of international law at Brussels University, said recognition of Kosovo's independence by the US and 22 EU members, of 27, "absolutely violated Serbia's territorial integrity". One more thing I have to say, British Ambassador John Sawyers has blackmailed Serbia for a UN pay phone. He said Belgrade must co-operate constructively with EU member states, most of which are 22 of the 27 members, recognised by Kosovo. He said the EU is an organisation whose member Serbia wants to be and that Serbia must participate in creating stability in the region. That in translation means that Serbia must accept Kosovo's independence. Afterwards, the French representative openly said that Serbia had challenged the European perspective of the Western Balkans with the initiative. Thank you and I want an answer to this question either from the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija or someone from the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12719	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12720	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS warned of developments in Kosovo and Metohija, both the public and MPs and positions, the minister and the government, of concrete and precise data relating to the events, work and lives of people in Kosovo and Metohija, mostly Serbs. As a result, on Monday, I stated that a special unit of "Rossa" was armed to my teeth from the Cypriot government in Kosovo and Metohija, which calls itself a government, attacked a Serbian checkpoint and the building and urbanism department of legally elected representatives of Serbs in the municipality of Strpce, threatening that if the checkpoint was not removed and they did not release the construction of solid materials in the Brezovica National Park, that the Cypriot tourism there would develop... The Serbs called on the EULEX mission and UNMIK mission to respond and protect them from such an attack. Unfortunately, we didn't even get an answer from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, nor from UNMIK itself, to prevent further attacks and attacks by armed terrorists who now call themselves the legal protection corps of Kosovo and Metohija. I drew attention to the need for urgent reactions from the Serbian government to make sure those Serbs living and working downstairs have the support of the country's home. Unfortunately, this has not been done until today. That was January 17th and 18th. A few days ago, in fact, the formation of that protective corps began. All I have to do is read some parts of the Ship's paper "Gazeta Express", a text written by journalist Beci Gericevic, entitled "Nutralized Opponents". Since time does not allow me, and it is a very important topic, to let you know that UNMIK is not capable of protecting Serbs, I will start and report again to end this: "At the request of the EU and other international representatives, the Serbian government has launched an action to extract northern Kosovo under the control of Serb extremists who oppose the deployment of Eulex on this part of the territory," he told the "Express" international source. "After an agreement with Brussels on the conditions for the arrival of Eulex on Serb enclaves, Belgrade has committed to taking measures to neutralize Serbian extremists who not only oppose the deployment of the EU mission, but are a danger to the security of members of the EU mission, which is due to begin working at the beginning of December." This text in Pristina came out on November 12th. "Most of the leaders of illegal Serb structures in northern Kosovo"... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. ) On the basis of Article. 225th and 226th, I wanted to request a notice from the Ministry... (President: You didn't say, by seeing the stenogram you can see that you didn't say, I wouldn't interrupt you in exactly three minutes if it was said. I'm asking you in ten seconds to say what kind of notification you're looking for and from which authority you're looking for. ) I ask the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija for an explanation and a statement on this text and questions that I was just about to ask, but since the time is up... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I see, Madam Chairman, that my time is up. I'll get back to you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12721	The word has a national MP, Stojanka Petkovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12722	I would like to advertise Article 104, paragraph 3 where it is said – no use of offensive expressions is allowed, nor is the presentation of facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. I don't want to waste Parliament time. I want this assembly back on the agenda. I want to give, first of all, an answer. Claims have been made that my son worked in the Kosovo Customs Service. First of all, I want to say that the Kosovo Customs Service does not exist until today. There is UNMIK customs, which was valid until 18 February when Kosovo's independence was declared and customs duties were burned. Because it is known who was in the ruling party in Kosovo and Metohija, I am someone who was unable to hire his child in state institutions; I was forced to hire him at UNMIK customs, and UNMIK came with Resolution 1244 signed by the Serbian side. That's one thing. The second thing is that Patriarch Pavle has never called on Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Now I want to be responsible, and I have proof that Patriarch Pavle in 2001 invited Serbs to go to the election, which went to a percentage of 18.6. I'm someone who took an oath from Patriarch Paul in the Roast Patriarchy, and we have proof of that. Third, I have never participated in any ministry regarding Kosovo and Metohija. I have every moral right regarding the national interest of the Serb community to say everything that represents a positive contribution. Another question is raised, and I am particularly glad that it is set today, and it is very common in the public and is asked by journalists, which is the issue of Oliver Ivanovic's participation. I have to say and explain some things. Oliver Ivanovic is not a member of the G 17 Plus party, he was on the G 17 Plus party list as a non-party figure, as someone who is democratically defined and he absolutely does not stand up for opinions, nor does he have the authority to participate as someone representing the G 17 Plus party. That's how much I don't want to report to the Rules of Procedure anymore, and I don't want to hear any more about replicas. I want today's work to continue on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12723	National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225nd and 226th, and I ask the Serbian Government what does he think he is doing about the latest developments in Kosovo and Metohija, around Kosovo and Metohija in the European Union, about Kosovo and Metohija? There's two things that need to be cleared up here. The first is the state of Serbia's relationship between the Serbian government and Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia is on fire, and the government is combing, as those in this series would say. It is being implemented slowly but it is certain that Ahtisaari's plan, Kosovo's real state, and the government is doing nothing, so to speak. The government isn't responding. They're made so-called. Security forces past Resolution 1244. The government, as we hear from the ministers, will use political means to act. He'll probably scare both Thaci and Haradinaj with his political action. He'll fight with political means. From which people are these security forces created that will become the Kosovo and Metohija armies as soon as Kosovo and Metohija are separated tomorrow? From the criminals, from the villains, from the terrorists, from the KLA, who then just changed into what's-his-name. Kosovo Protection Corps. Of those people who kidnapped Serbs, took them to Albania and some other locations, removed their vital organs and sold them to the same Europe and the same world. In addition, Carla del Ponte has shown unequivocally what has been done with people who have been kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija, and with civilians and soldiers, police officers who have been captured. It was said few of the individuals that they needed to talk to the Kosovo government, so-called. The government of the so-called so-called government. the countries of Kosovo. Who has the right to ask the Serbian Government to speak to terrorists who are building on our territory, on our salary, of our material their own house? The address is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the United Nations, the address is Resolution 1244, the address is the Kumanski Agreement which now the government of Serbia is trying to bypass the conversation with Europe about the cobayage elimination of security forces that are on the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija, and that we, on the other hand, withdraw the police, the gendarme from the security zone. Is, ladies and gentlemen, the price of entering Europe, the price of the white Schengen list, the price of being able to walk around Europe. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, I'm sorry, I'll finish right now, is the cost of Kosovo and Metohija? Just two more sentences, Madam Chairman, if I may. It is immoral today to discuss Slobodanka Petkovic, who was Thaci's deputy in the Kosovo government, Dragan Nikolic also, Oliver Ivanovic also, Bogdanovic Goran, who served as minister in the Kosovo government... (President: Four minutes. ) Slavisa Popovic, who served as minister in the Kosovo government, has no moral right to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, about Serbs... (President: National Messenger, I warn you that you have no right to speak about who has and who has no moral right. Freedom of speech is guaranteed by the Constitution and you cannot deny others, for any of your views, to speak. Thank you. I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, for overstepping my time. I'm not talking about law, I'm talking about morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12725	People's MP, we probably haven't heard from you. So I said you had no right to deny anyone the moral right to perform or speak, because freedom of speech is guaranteed by our Constitution, especially in this room. I asked you and I warned you not to use such expressions. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12726	Mrs. Comic, I really don't think there's any more serious subject than this one. Your invitation to the Rules of Procedure and the manner and regime of the demonstration of force from the chair does not allow... (President: People's Parliament, I warn you not to call upon the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to keep an eye on the way you address the National Assembly. You asked for a word based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you received a word based on the provisions of Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 100(1). I warn you that the way you started your address is not allowed and is not in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go. It's not worth explaining. So, to continue the text that I started... (President: National MP, please state which member of the Rules of Procedure you are calling for in order for you to be able to retain the right to be exposed on the basis of article 100 and the words received on the basis of article 100.) Mrs. Komic, by which member of the Rules of Procedure do I have to declare by which member I am reporting and what is the injury involved? [[Disabled microphone.]] When you give that answer, you can interrupt me whenever you want. This really doesn't make sense. Of you, not from an MP sitting in benches, I can't say what I want to say. Don't let yourself, especially as chairman. Let me finish, and bring your opinion to the end on the basis of Article 100(3). So, the text says, "Nutralised opponents", the Cypriot newspaper, journalist Bekim Gazeqi, "Gazeta Express com", November 12th: "The first step for the elimination of opponent Eulex was taken two weeks ago when the Serbian Interior Ministry resolved Dragan Delibasic, the head of Serbian police for the Mitrovica region. On November 1st, Belgrade resolved the actual head of Serbia's MUP in northern Kosovo, Dragan Delibasic. He is due to leave the office by 15 November at the latest," the news source told the newspaper. "Serbian police officer number one from Kosovo and Metohija Dragan Delibasic ran the previous years without any interference with the Serbian police station of the MUP in northern Mitrovica, near the 'Black Lady' cafe. He commands at least 70 Serb police officers in civilians and has a major impact on Serb members of the Kosovo police. The Serbian government has promised Brussels to neutralize two Serbian extremist leaders, Mark Jaksic and Milan Ivanovic. They were invited to an informative conversation at Serbia's MUP in Belgrade," the news source told the newspaper. "Jaksic is a senior representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, led by former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Until a few months ago, he was president of the Serb municipalities community in Kosovo, which has now been transformed into the Assembly of the Serb Municipalitys. Milan Ivanovic is the director of a hospital in northern Mitrovica where one of the logistics bases is located," listen to this accusation, "Serbian secret services. The two strongly resist the deployment of EULEX in Kosovo and are the organisers of protests and the signing of petitions against the deployment of the European Union mission." I ask the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is this text correct? Did the Ministry answer on these false charges? Is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija familiar with the fact that Eulex has sent Serbian representatives to the Kosovo government when it comes to packages for the New Year and missing a truck from the administrative border on Kosovo and Metohija? Is it true that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija only paid for the heating of schools in Kosovo and Metohija on 30 December 2008? Another very important thing, patriotism is sufficiently spoken by the former president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which you are looking for a request and an explanation. ) On the basis of Articles 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12727	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12728	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I'm asking for special notice, and I'm also going to say from whom, that I would actually be allowed to do normal work as MPs of this assembly, so I'm also reporting on the basis of Article 225. Mrs. Komic, I hope that you will help me, given that I am now asking for an urgent explanation from the authorities, I assume that we are own to refer the request to the National Security Council, but we are certainly looking first for an explanation of the Serbian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, given the emerging situation in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. For Foreign Minister Mr. Jeremic: what will he specifically do on the diplomatic plan, since Kosovo, unfortunately, an independent Cypriot state, also gets its own army? These are our underlying doubts based on writing certain media. We want these reasonable doubts now or we want to disprove or confirm. The SRS Parliament Club will insist that Mr Jeremic, the Serbian foreign minister, appear urgently on the Foreign Affairs Committee and report on what the foreign ministry has done on this matter, as well as on the heads of diplomatic missions, especially in those EU countries where we, unfortunately, have returned bilateral relations to the highest possible ambassador level after recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence and thus de facto said -- the Serbian government agrees with what you are doing in Serbia's territory, i.e. supporting Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We, therefore, told Serbian Foreign Minister Jeremic that the next phase is the next step in which the Washington and Brussels administration will decide exactly this. After this, the division of Kosovo and implementation of Ischinger's plan, which means - Serbs enter dialogue with Albanians, and then it is very likely to come from the recognition of an independent Cypriot state. Let me remind you, in 1999, there was an aggression against the SRJ based on a forged report by Helen Rant and Mr Walker. Not because the SRS argues, but because Mrs Helen Ranta claimed this year and last year, and we support it by the fact that it is from 1999 to 2007. Washington gave 180 billion dollars in bilateral aid, in 2008 $147m in aid, and for 2009 Washington is giving $125m to an independent Shiptar state. So, Mrs. Komic, I really believe that you will help us get answers to the questions that have actually caused dilemmas based on the emerging situation on the part of Serbian territory as quickly as possible. Once again, I apologize for being overstepped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12729	People's MPs, we'll check more information, but I think tomorrow's session of the Foreign Affairs Committee is scheduled. I ask the service to also send a stenogram of Marine Ragush to the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, since one of the questions asked can be answered tomorrow at the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, if it remains scheduled tomorrow for 13.00 hours. I repeat, I have no confirmation, but this is the last piece of information I have on the work of our committee. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION FROM THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZEN TYPES OF ACCOMMODATION (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dejan Mirović, Vladan Jeremic and Lidija Dimitrijevic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12730	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 2(1). It's a bill of law. The amendment requires an extension of the time limit for the temporary exemption of the income tax on citizens, more specifically the income tax on capital based on interest on foreign and other deposits of citizens. The amendment extends the deadline until 31 December 2010, instead of the resolution provided for in the law, which provides for the deadline until 31 December 2009. Basically, the amendment has been submitted because we believe that the crisis that is going to occur will be long and no one can predict its duration. In particular, they are not in a state of government, which has proved to be a bad weatherman many times. It is only necessary to remember those unrealistic and tragic statements of October 2008 that the financial crisis will not even reach our country or even more pointless variations of the same thesis that the financial crisis is our chance, or so some construction. Teached by these experiences and poor or unrealistic forecasts by the authorities, as well as by unilateral application of the agreement with the EU, which most essentially corresponds to monopolies such as the Delta company, the amendment requires an extension of the deadline to two years. So it's a minimum preventive measure. In this context, the amendment is based on forecasts and analyses from serious foreign sources. For example, The Guardian announced on 17 January 2009, due to a major downturn in the Barklis bank's stock of as much as 25%, that the crisis had entered the second phase and that in Whitehall, the British government's headquarters, extraordinary meetings were held for the future of British banking. Also, a professor of economics at the University of New York, Mr Rubini, who predicted the current crisis two years ago, believes there will be a recession in the Eurozone, Britain, Japan and Canada, as well as in other developed countries. The US expert believes that the financial crisis is unsustainable and has spread from risky mortgages to more secure ones, as well as credit cards, student cards and commercial loans. Therefore, banks need additional capital to cover the expected losses in the following year. This American professor even says that credit mechanisms are completely frozen. The only lender is the central bank, and in normal times it's the last address you address when you need money. So, he indirectly acknowledges what is already clear – Russian and Chinese economists say – that the US central bank will have to print money not only in limited quantities and without cover, however, it has been doing so since August 1971, but will print money in large quantities to save the American economy. It's known what this leads to sooner or later, hyperinflation and a complete collapse of the financial system. Also, serious foreign economic circles provide for the following deadlines, they are again completely contrary to those optimistic forecasts based on the bill that is before us: for example, the already mentioned professor from the University of New York believes that in 2009, I quote, "very difficult and painful, worst in the past six decades". The potential effects of the monetary measures taken by governments around the world may not be felt until 2010. So, according to the most favourable forecast, there may be some kind of improvement in 2010, I repeat. Therefore, it is necessary to accept the longer deadline we propose in the amendment, especially if it is considered that there are forecasts that are even more dreary than previously mentioned. Our press reported a forecast the other day of a well-known expert working in Reagan's administration, which also envisions printing an even greater amount of money and an even longer depression in America and related economies, as well as difficult days for the EU in economic and political terms. Also, as part of the requirements set out in this amendment, but also the final words of the honourable minister over the debate in particular yesterday, it should be noted that German economists are pushing for as much tax relief and tax cuts as possible in the coming period. Thus, the professor of the Hamburg economy, Mr. Michael Broniger, believes it is necessary to cut taxes in order to boost consumption in Germany. Again, we have the government doing exactly the opposite, and in the middle of the financial crisis, it increases taxes, and those that hit the poorest layers, such as excises, and even publicly consider the possibility of increasing VAT. On the other hand, as well as the West, Chinese official newspapers are publishing more than clear headlines about the seriousness of the financial crisis, such as the title - The Wall Street myth is collapsing. It's more than clear to anyone who knows how American and Chinese businesses and finances are connected. Also, the leading Russian economist, Mr. Mikhail Hazin, makes his predictions about the duration of the crisis that is contrary to the predictions set out in the bill. He also predicts that federal US reserves will start printing large amounts of money and that the crisis will peak in the coming period. Otherwise, Mr Hazin, like the experts mentioned earlier, made precise predictions about the onset of the crisis several years ago. In an interview with Russia's most exploited daily newspaper since 28 October 2008, he also presented three variants of the crisis development. First: If federal reserves stop printing a dollar on unrealistic grounds, the entire American system goes down fast, in about two or three months and comes back in 1929. This is due to the system of combined courts and related economies, because the dollar is the main reserve currency, with about 70% participation in the global economy. The second option is that U.S. Federal Reserves print money more moderately. In that case, the system collapse is delayed by two and a half to three years. Third variant: hyperinflation or maximum printing of money by U.S. Federal Reserves, which leads to system failure in a year, year and a half. So, ladies and gentlemen, the highlight of the crisis is ahead of us. Of course, all of these well-known economists from all over the world are clear that the main culprit for this crisis is Wallstritt and its wrong economic policy that drives, in essence, the insatiable greed and the exploitation of the poor. It is also no secret that such a policy is based on unrealistic dollars and financial manipulations, according to a system of merged courts, with the support of large monopolies, which is reflected in the US central bank, because it is known to be the dominant share of private capital in the US central bank. Of course, it all reflects on the instrument of federal reserves, here such a glorified IMF, a fund in which the United States is the only one with the right to veto and dominant role. For example, in the early 1990s, the United States had 17.7% of the total vote in the IMF. The government, instead of understanding this new global reality and situation of the crisis, concludes a stand-by arrangement with the IMF right now, at a time when only six months from now all major New York investment banks disappeared or changed their status. Almost incredible. Also, the government and the governor of the dogmatic religion, according to IMF ideology, did not hesitate to announce that by mid-2009 in London City, another powerful stock exchange centre relying on neoliberal ideology would be abolished 15% of jobs. The government did not hesitate to make such changes as strengthening the Asian Monetary Fund of China, South Korea and Japan, worth $80 billion, which guarantees the financial stability of the countries of South Asia without so-called. The IMF's participation and advice has been compromised in this part of the world since 1998. A similar process is also being developed in South America, where the Bank of the South is established, which brings Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela together. So it's a South American bank that works just without the so-called. Councils of the IMF and similar institutions compromised and in this part of the world in the 1980s. Here's a neoliberal ideology and the glorification of the IMF represented by the government cannot seem to waver, not even a statement by Russian Finance Minister Alexander Kudrin, who in November 2008 requested the formation of new global financial institutions that would replace exactly the IMF and the World Bank. The government and the governor mean nothing to the obvious double standards applied by the IMF. Even the press in the West admits it. For example, the Daily Email states that the IMF dares not ask the United States for what it requires of poor countries. This kind of government policy, which is essentially run by the compromised IMF, is trying to cover up the surface changes provided for in this law. These changes are not in line with the seriousness of the crisis and the promoter shows unrealistic optimism or unseriousness when it provides for such short deadlines as provided for in Article 2. It's a bill of law. The Honorable Minister, whose expertise we are not questioning, urged us in her final presentation earlier yesterday to state the position of another Nobel laureate who criticises the work of the IMF other than Joseph Dozic. Dear Mrs Dragutinović, we quoted the arrival first of all because it is known to the general public, otherwise we believe, as you do, that it is partly incorrect, after working in the World Bank, talking and writing about its experience. But unlike you, we find it quite the opposite - Dotric often saves the IMF and the World Bank in his criticisms, precisely because of his past work. Much closer to the truth is the winner of the 2004 Nobel Prize for Economics, Mr. Edward Prescott. He believes that the IMF and the World Bank should be abolished because they are instruments of foreign policy of wealthy states. Professor Prescott considers this institution to be more harmful than it benefits the world economy. As for the IMF, loans and the World Bank, the winner of the 2004 Nobel Prize for Economics, Professor Prescott believes that the policy of these institutions, which consists in approving more and more loans to countries in crisis, is the same as giving drugs to a man dependent on cocaine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12731	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income. In Article 3 paragraph 1, the words "31 December 2009" should be replaced by the words "31 December 2010" as provided for in the amendment. I considered this a completely rational proposal and a solution, as the negative effects of the global economic and financial crisis will shake the Serbian market, cause huge economic, financial, fiscal and social problems, and, according to some forecasts, this situation will last at least two years. It is precisely that time limit that is optimal for this amendment to fix the proposed law. Of course, in addition to these external effects that will act directly on the unprotected Serbian market, there are also internal problems caused by large volume of public spending, high inflation, foreign trade deficits, current payments deficits, budget deficits, etc. From all of this, it is clear that citizens' incomes will be significantly reduced, so we have suggested that, from taxing on the income of citizens, they are exempt from that category of taxpayers, with a period of two years, instead of one proposed by the proposer, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministry. The amendment, of course, is not accepted and it is obvious that it is illusory to talk about factual indicators, the problems we have raised when proposing this amendment, because we would thus enter into some sort of bidding process and about Serbia's external debt and about the level of inflation, etc. But that only confirms that there are practically two Serbias here: one real, in which citizens and the other live, virtual, in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia works. Therefore, I would like to point out in my discussion a fundamental problem, which is one of the rather radical tax policies that is being conducted in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, economic theory and an increasing number of economic studies suggest that direct taxation of citizens' income causes more significant negative effects on economic growth compared to indirect taxation and consumption. Some reform of the income tax cannot aim only at increasing fiscal revenues from this source, but also at establishing a more competitive tax system, which would significantly support economic growth, reduce the grey economy and contain income redistribution elements to the extent that these economic opportunities allow. In practice, income tax systems of citizens often combine elements resulting from economic theory and elements resulting from some social norms. Elements of two alternative approaches, global and cedular, are often intertwined in taxing citizens' incomes. Such systems are not in themselves able to achieve a satisfactory degree of social fair redistribution of income in society and it is clear that they must be followed by an appropriate policy of social transfers and progressive public expenditure. I would point this opportunity to three important segments. When it comes to tax efficiency, it refers to this theoretical concept of economic efficiency, as the tax charged represents a visible and tangible cost for economic operators. However, tax systems also cause changes in the behaviour of taxpayers that are not so visible, but result in a loss of economic efficiency and a location of economic resources. Without investing in technical details, as some first approximate parameter, it can be considered that tax systems should in principle rely on a wider tax base and that tax rates are uniform and moderated, in order to minimise negative impacts on non-economic activity. The second segment is this tax justice, which illustrates the social consensus that individuals in society should pay taxes according to their own options. Maybe this is the most important thing. The third is tax competitiveness, which is becoming an increasingly important aspect of all tax systems due to the accelerated trend in globalisation and global markets and regional integration. For a small, open economy such as the Serbian economy, which is increasingly accessing regional integration, it is very important whether or not you will increase or reduce regional competitiveness through certain tax provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs need to know that although the global approach to taxation has dominated the economic thinking of Western countries for decades, no country in the world has implemented income tax, this system that absolutely follows the theoretical basis and structure of the global system. The largest number of Western countries has just been identified as implementing systems that are essentially global but also include certain cedular elements to facilitate the implementation of the tax system or achieve certain economic objectives. For example, the U.S. and Canada are the countries most monitored by this global approach to taxation in designing their systems. The basics of citizens' income tax in both countries are comprehensive and virtually all categories of citizens' income are subject to taxation. However, these countries have also introduced a number of cedular elements, especially in the taxation of capital revenues. The preferential treatment of capital revenues came as a result of its increased and global mobility and the desire to stimulate savings and investment to help precisely economic growth and increase the competitiveness of national economies. In order to facilitate tax collection and reduce tax evasion, employers suspended gross earnings from their employees at the deduction of the approximate tax advances during the year. Canada, the United States and Australia are practically the only countries in the world that require all of the taxpayers to file tax returns at the end of the year. This provision is caused by the enormous costs of administration and taxpayers. For example, in 2001, as many as 21,000,000 people in Canada submitted tax returns. The study was done at the end of the 1990s in Canada and estimated that the costs of administration and taxpayers amount to more than 7% of total fiscal revenues. In the cost structure, 1% account for administrative costs and 6% for taxpayers, 2.5% for employees and 3.5% for employers. Here's an example from the European Union. Most of the old EU members are characterised by relatively complex global systems with prominent progressive tax rates and social tax programmes. Unlike the US and Canada, the old EU members introduced a number of cedular elements and non-taxable censorships into their PDG systems to reduce the costs of administration and taxpayers. In most of these countries, taxpayers who make only income from regular employment and minor revenues from other sources are not obliged to submit annual tax returns. This is the case in countries like Great Britain, Germany, Hungary, etc. In addition to the tax on income tax on deductions, it is practice to suspend the tax on deductions even when paying dividends and interest. In addition to all the optimizations introduced, over 10% of taxpayers in those countries fill and file annual tax returns. In order to preserve the competitiveness of their tax systems, but also to maintain a certain degree of vertical justice, the Nordic countries introduced a dual income tax system in the 1990s which explicitly separately taxed capital and labour revenues. The capital revenue (interests, dividends, capital gains) is subject to proportional taxation at a single and moderate tax rate in order to detimulate the capital outflow. Incomes from work (employment, self-employed work, pensions) are taxed at higher and progressive tax rates. In view of the fact that earnings in all countries are the largest part of the tax income of citizens, such progressive taxation of income from work can reach a significant level of redistribution of income in society. The latest trend in income taxation is also the single tax rate systems implemented in their practice by countries such as Russia, Estonia, Slovakia or Latvia. What is important when it comes to Serbia is that, as it was then pompously announced - extensive, fiscal reforms in 2001, when the original Law on Income Taxation of Citizens was adopted, the law in Serbia established the cedular PDG system and prescribed a nominal tax rate of 20% on practically all categories of citizens' income, except for earnings. Due to a significant burden on social contributions to employee earnings, a lower tax rate of 14% was prescribed, and such a cedular approach allowed 95% of Serbia's tax revenues to be collected after deduction. Although the introduction of a single nominal tax rate at first sight may look like a implementation of horizontal justice, the problem is the fact that for different categories of income, legal and different rates of non-taxable normised costs are prescribed. The important feature of these progressive global systems is also the legal definition of the non-taxable treatment of the costs incurred in obtaining income. In the opinion of experts, however, such legal provisions are not too relevant in the context of the overall system, especially as it is in the Republic of Serbia. It is considered that instead of tax laws, it would be more optimal to leave the laws of the free market to regulate different income costs through the level of market yield. An effective tax rate is important for taxpayers, because that rate, not nominal, determines what amount of tax they will have to pay. However, there are much more frequently in the media nominal than effective tax rates, as it is difficult to expect a significant degree of guidance from the general public in the details of current tax laws. This, I think, particularly concerns potential foreign investors, who are unable to get a detailed understanding of the details of each of the countries in which they invest. Hence, there is the possibility of multiple benefits from eliminating untaxable normised costs and equating effective and nominal tax rates. So, the old law that established the already mentioned cedular system also contained some global elements in terms of annual income tax. In fact, at the end of the year, citizens with high annual incomes, which is close to 1% of taxpayers, were obliged to file a tax application and pay an additional 10% tax on the total amount of net income above the non-taxable price. Given that the annual tax is also an additional tax on top of the other taxes that citizens pay during the year, its introduction has allowed a certain degree of vertical justice without violating the simplicity of the cedular system in Serbia. Although initially all categories of income have entered into the basis of annual taxes, for example, amendments to the 2004 financial capital law have been freed from annual taxation, with the potential to stimulate the development of the financial market or perhaps to destimulate capital outflows. The fiscal burden of earnings is one of the special topics, very important, because profits represent more than 80% of the registered tax income of citizens in the Republic, so that some progressive taxation exclusively of earnings, similar to this mentioned dual system, could achieve a significant rate of redistribution of income within the existing system. Dear fellow MPs, economic opportunities have conditioned a world-wide trend of simpler income tax for citizens, therefore, these systems, to create a more competitive tax environment and stimulate economic growth. It seems to me that in Serbia we are still not aware of it, so I think it is necessary to further simplify and optimise the existing tax system. Of course, my wish was, since time is slowly running out, to point to a different view of the functioning of tax policy, some sort of expert thinking. I'm sure some of what was heard during my discussion will be able to be used. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12733	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly for the adoption of a proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, which it says adopted at its session in November 2008 under a package of measures to mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis on the Serbian economic and financial market. This proposal proposes that the Government not be determined and does not pay a capital tax based on interest on foreign exchange savings and other deposits of citizens that have been made since the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2009; then, it does not or does not pay a tax on capital gains on income incurred on the basis of the transfer of securities from the value and interest in the property of legal persons, from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2009, for transfers made during that period; it does not and does not pay a tax on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income for 2008 and 2009. National MPs of the SRS Parliament Club have submitted amendments to this bill that have proposed to extend the deadline to apply these measures by 31 December 2010, because we believe that the negative effects of the crisis will be manifested both in this year and in the following year. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill, and Article 4, reads: "It is not established and does not pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income for 2008 and 2009. "I have proposed to replace the amendment with the words "2009 and 2010" in Article 4 paragraph 1. The government decided not to accept my amendment and gave a reason for this: "The amendment is not accepted since the exemption from taxation of agricultural income on cadastrian income for 2008 and 2009 is correctly measured and reflects the continuity of current legal solutions – the exemption from taxation for 2004 and 2005 and then for 2006 and 2007. "A government that calls itself responsible would have to accept the solution proposed by this amendment, as it refers to those who over the years have brought all the difficulties that have hit our society, to agricultural producers, on their backs. Serbian farmers are currently in a very unfavourable position, can rightly be said in never worse; their work has been defused entirely, and the risk of not returning funds is increasing. In this year, the negative effects of the economic crisis will reflect on everything, and farmers will again be the ones to be lost. Even if things were to go better in 2010, and the chances of that being the case are low, freeing the income tax from agriculture and forestry on catastrian revenues for 2008, 2009 and 2010 would be helpful for farmers, if for nothing else, at least because they will not have tax obligations to the state, which in the context of the economic crisis has done much to their harm. The worst thing the Serbian government has done and which will hit farmers greatly is the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. In conditions where many families in Serbia currently find themselves, when we have daily job layoffs, daily price hikes, customers will not be able to buy products produced in Serbia, but products that are cheaper. Agricultural products imported from EU member states will be cheaper for logical reasons. First, they will be imported to Serbia without customs burdens. Another reason of great importance is that because of large subsidies in countries where the price of these products is produced is far lower than ours. Our government decided in 2009 to reduce the amount of agricultural subsidies in the budget compared to the previous year 2008. In 2008, for this purpose, 24,986,506,666 dinars were given from the budget, 18,269,000,000 for 2009, which is less than or 26,9% lower by 6,717,506.666 dinars. In 2008, agricultural producers did not take much advantage of their work. I'll remind you of a few things that confirm this finding of mine. Because of the low price of cabbage, many farmers plowed their fields, along with the cabbage, because they couldn't sell it. Because of the low price of corn and the inability to sell many households, they decided to use corn for heating. The purchase of oil derivatives conditioned by the increase in excise duties will directly affect the increase in agricultural prices. The decline in the purchasing power of the population due to the effects of the economic crisis will negatively affect farmers, as in addition to the fact that the state has not secured the placement of our agricultural products, it has not even protected the domestic market from foreign products. On the contrary, the state has allowed competition from abroad for their products to be competitors on our market, which means they will be more sold. Now that the time of investment in agricultural production to farmers is not easy at all. Seed prices are too high, because the seed is from imports. Nothing is more favourable than the cost of artificial fertilizer and pesticides. If we add to everything the risk of climate disturbances, i.e. Droughts, cities and other time factors, we'll see that farmers are in a very invisible situation. We have been witnessing over the past few months the unreally low price of buying milk. There's another big problem faced by cattlemen. Some of them took cows on loan, and they should pay them off by selling milk and calves. When they signed credit agreements, the price of milk was far higher; now that the price of milk is lower, they find themselves in wonder, because they cannot regularly pay off credit rates. This is a small part of the big problems facing those who live in Serbia in agriculture. For this reason, I believe that the Government should accept my amendment and that it should guarantee farmers that in these difficult conditions they will not have to pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12735	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12736	I believe this amendment is acceptable to the government as well. But probably because of some of its estimates and projections of what will be next year at this point, it does not accept it, but it will probably have to build something like this next year. However, I have reported to explain the position of the SRS on all these amendments to the proposal for this law. Just to remind you, about 2004, 2005 and you have it in your stenogram, you can notice that whenever it was on the agenda of the Law on Income Taxes (at that time Minister Mladjan Dinkic) was looking for a solution just like this. Let me just bring it down to one category, since the law lists several categories, I'll take the category, let's say, of the citizens' cash deposits at the banks by sight. Why? Why do we think it's not supposed to be taxed, interest first of all? If we take a move over the year, and we take 100 dinars for what it was worth on the savings of January 1st and how much that 100 dinars plus interest is worth at the end of the year, then the question is, was the interest in the function of preserving the value or did that interest contain the preservation of the value and plus one, if I were to say, the profit or the profit? Maybe it's an even better example when it comes to foreign exchange stakes. The January 1st exchange rate is worth so much, December 31st is worth completely different. There's no problem here what we're going to take as a unit of measures, whether we're going to take the currency, the exchange, the price of gold, the price of goods, the value of the goods. It's not a problem what we take as a means of comparison. If the interest at the end of the year guarantees the preservation of monetary value, then I don't know what is taxed there, where is the profit. There's no income, it's just a preserved value. So far, we've had a tax on interest that basically kept value, and then it grew into a tax on property, not a income tax on citizens. I think this measure is good now, no matter what anyone calls the state. It's possible there's a calling. Why? It doesn't matter if someone has 1,000 euros on their savings, so they got no interest or several hundred thousand. Generally, this measure is good. Why? Because money goes into banks and then you can have control and insight into the entire cash mass, in all respects. Of course, when the funds are in the banks, if the banks are safe, we know what that means for the credit potential and for the development of the state at all. Let me remind you, since 2004 or 2005, we have called on this measure. There was no understanding. She's now engaged in some time period, most of these measures, I don't count agriculture, income based on agriculture, it's a completely different topic, there's absolutely everything right. You can see for yourself that it's been moving since 2005, each year it continues. There's a reason why farmers are freed from farm tax revenues, there's a reason. I think that this measure should continue to go, and that is why this amendment has been submitted, not only in 2010, but also in 2010 as well. I'm sure at the end of next year or this year you'll see it coming. I'm not getting into it, you must have some interest why you can't accept it now, but it's good to hear this discussion, it's good to hear these arguments, it's good to hear these reasons. On this case I showed you, what we talked about in 2004, here it is, in 2009, finally someone had to accept because he saw that there was a proper reserve, I have to say, a very modest reserve. Maybe it's a lack of this bill that we don't have a more detailed explanation. I think the Ministry of Finance couldn't make a detailed explanation because this matter belongs much more to the National Bank, that it, based on the management of bank operations, can say what savings are, what is the average, what is the mass, what is the interest, etc. If you were to make some next regulation of this content, the explanation would have to contain that part, let's see what the effects are, because for you, it's a good argument to say - this is the measure that keeps citizens on personal consumption for so long and so much. I think you got me. No matter how much you didn't accept this, think about these amendments where we asked for the lengthy fact of the provisions of this law. Clearly, it refers only to natural persons, these incomes based on capital, interest, etc. It's a good thing it's in line with one of the previous laws, I'm thinking about the property tax, about actions and other things, and what this does now is some, if I may say, system. But I don't think all of this is enough, there's no big score here, there's no big effect, especially if it's true, God forbid it's true, that citizens for these three or four months have withdrawn from saving a significant amount of currency. If it's returned, then it's good, but you have to guarantee the safety of the banks. Without the security of the banks, there's nothing. What happened to you two days ago with this "Elita International", you deal with it urgently. The public doesn't know they're real estate. The public knows, the man paid 5,000 euros, made some money in a few months. Get rid of that problem. While you explain to that man that it had nothing to do with the banking system, that he wasn't in the banking system, that he couldn't deal with the deposits, he ate a donkey wolf. Get rid of this immediately. Get it over with, if you want to have some security, because what was published a few days ago looks a lot like Dafin and Jezda, you have to admit, and especially when he says - our ministry is not obliged to read the paper. Avoid, please, such an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12737	People's MP, time at your envoy's disposal has been used. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12738	Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, you have before you a bill on temporary exemption of certain types of income from paying taxes on citizen income, one very short bill, only five members, so it is no wonder that the debate on it lasted relatively short. Once again, I'm going to remind myself of the reasons to pass this very, very short bill. First of all, the need to be stimulated, I'd say sooner to recover, the foreign currency savings in the banking sector. Thus, stimulating savings, encouraging the development of the capital market, i.e. securities markets, and finally continuing to encourage investment and investment in agricultural production. I would like to remind you that the dinar savings have always been released from paying the income tax on interest capital. The foreign savings were not released. Whether or not it should be released I wouldn't be discussing it this time, I'd just like to say that this measure, the high tax rate that was at this point, which is 20%, was not the measure that affected the withdrawal of foreign savings, but could be the measure that would affect the rapid return of foreign savings to the banking system, so where it belongs. All the amendments tabled, therefore, three amendments, were practically related to the extended fact of these measures. Although you have received answers to the amendments, I would really like to say the essential reason why none of these amendments have been accepted. A fundamental reason, as Mr. Vladan Jeremic criticised the existing law, is that the finance ministry wants to propose a brand-new law in the first quarter, i.e. at the end of the first quarter. So it's going to be a whole new law. We believe that this law has been overcome, and we believe that the cedular system of taxation is not good. We also think that better and simpler tax systems are, say, flats, etc. So the fundamental reason why these amendments were not adopted is because of the intention to do and regulate a whole new law. What are the effects of applying this short bill? So the total tax loss, so to speak, or discharge is four billion dinars, two and a half billion based on the release of foreign exchange savings, in fact, interest on foreign exchange savings from taxes on citizen income. So, two billion left this second small tax. Once again, I might be able to break the line with Mr. Dejan Mirovic's position. I always said I didn't have sex with a man, but with his attitude, and the attitude was tied, if you remember, to customs protection. So, I often criticize the IMF's views myself. Then we talked about customs protection. I remain in the view that customs protection is high and that the Serbian economy is overprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12739	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on APPLICATION FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijaljević, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Vjerica Radeta, Sladjan Mijaljević and Zoran Krasić on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12740	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, I filed this amendment on record short notice, because when I saw the law, I had only five minutes to respond to this formulation. That's how I'm saying that I didn't protect another group in my amendment that was absolutely not mentioned here in the law, so I'm going to explain through my presentation what I suggested and what the Ministry of Faith should do and didn't do. I object to the work of the Minister of Faith, and I think he's very professional, because if he can live in two countries and work three jobs, he's probably professional enough to see what's missing in certain laws. The monk and the nun were expelled from a certain definition of compulsory social security and from the classification of both priests and church officials, and monks and nuns. They have received that part of mandatory social security in legal-technical harmonisation, but in my view, they are downgraded, by classification, to the minimum possible level of mandatory social protection. Because while some in the government who are called experts sit and think about how they will fill the budget, i.e. the fountain of desire or the well of desire, on the other hand some people living in monasteries that are centuries old, dozens of centuries old, who are protected by even a zero category in UNESCO, somewhere just frescoes and somewhere complete monastery complexes... If we know that there are people living in these monasteries who are not only highly educated, but also doctors of philosophy, art history, theology. There are almost no diplomats, ambassadors, consuls or anyone who comes to our country without visiting our cultural and historical monuments and being amazed, especially when they see that there is still something that was built eight or ten centuries ago. When in a perfect foreign language these same monks and nuns explain to them what cultural and historical mildness is, then from this country Serbia brings an incredibly beautiful picture of us, of our past, of our tradition, of our culture and of everything we have preserved in this country. There are diplomats, especially those who come from the North American continent, who simply can't believe, even though they look with their eyes, that, say, Gracanica or Decani are eight centuries old, and then we try to convince them in a variety of ways. For the sake of leaving out the name "monah" and "monachin" referred to in Articles 3 and 7 I believe a slight discrimination has been made and I think it should be a little better and more careful to regulate their status. On the other hand, there's a group of people called temptress. We know that monasteries are being restored, in terms of life. In order for someone to become a monk, he must pass a certain trial course. I found nowhere in the law that there was any social security or any other way to protect the temptations. You have monasteries where the temptations of their trials live for two or three years, but you have, for God's sake, monasteries where for eight or nine years they are tempted. If someone and only one day were without certain protection or legal regulation of their status in our country, that's not good. To have people who spend seven, eight, nine years 24 hours, seven days a week and all the months of their probationary internship in that monastery and all of them are treated using one health book. I don't see any excuse, especially for the Ministry of Faith, why they didn't regulate this a little more seriously, more specifically, and better. I say again, these monks and nuns, on the one hand, are famous in our history for having preceded many cultural and historical events, that they were the first to bring literacy here and printing machines, that they were leading certain very serious processes of liberation from some conquerors and those who were trying to enslave us in many ways. I simply don't see any gratitude in erasing them from the law with some such explanations. If we delete their name from some laws now, in a year, two days, when they re-enact each other's laws, we won't know who it's about. In particular, I think that they are important because we are in such an environment, which we heard today in the afternoon debate when there were speeches in the Rules of Procedure, how much in terms of our tradition, culture and faith we are attacked in the areas of the Balkans; how some newly created states are trying to create some of their churches, thus killing the sense of nationality of every conscious Serb. They do not attack the SPC on multiple fronts, with more ways and with more weapons just because of some vindictiveness, but precisely because they would separate us from our deepest roots and feelings of belonging to their nation. In Croatia, tens of thousands of people have been violently translated from Orthodox to Roman Catholicism, into another religion. In Montenegro, a newly created state and already known irresponsible government of the state of Montenegro is in a certain way preventing a multi-eternal institution, the Serbian Orthodox Church, from performing its rituals and for several years now is pursuing something that is in sect victimology or in that recognition of certain sectarian type organisations known as the new pseudochristian sect, where several people are dressed in priestly clothing and trying to act out a church. They tried a lot of addresses, knocked on a lot of doors to get some justification for their existence. However, no official patriarchy in Orthodoxy has recognised their autokefalability, has given them an excuse for their existence. However, it is obvious that the sectarian organisation, which calls itself the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, is registered, established at a police station, is being supported by the government in Montenegro. Following all that the current government in Montenegro has done over the past few years, we have seen just the confirmation of these words – that they are trying, through the attack on SPC, on SPC believers, to absolutely cut our ties with our past, with our tradition, with our culture and with our faith. There are some trends with us in the Assembly. I have indeed learned many lessons from this congregation speaker that come from the world of religion or from science, theology. Many of these lessons are quite disputable, some are more half-true and false than they really have any weight or are based on some dogmas, on some teachings, on some definitions, on some practice or on a sacred dedication. I didn't want to react, because for no reason alone, I would introduce some people into something that would bring the most negative points to them in their own personal and emotional experience of faith and religion, and also to us, according to some of our canons, it says, "Don't make your brother ashamed." I'm saying, I didn't want to react then, even though I could react to some findings and give them a lecture for half an hour compared to those definitions they gave. I'm saying, there's a certain environment that really worries, and I can't comment on it in a certain part, and I'm linking it to that that some actually tend to separate us from our tradition, culture, especially religion. Here, you have had events in the last two months – whenever the greatest festivals of members of national minorities, namely certain religions or traditional religious communities, we congratulated everyone from this assembly payphone and applauded everyone. You remember how much controversy and speech was in the Rules of Procedure when we congratulated the members of the Serbian nationality, the new year, on the new calendar, on January 14th, or on January 1st of the old calendar. All of a sudden, everyone here or most of them tried to replicate us, and it's very unmistakable, even a little funny, saying it's SPC holiday. We know that SPC celebrates its New Year on September 1st, or 14th, and this is the New Year of citizens of the country of Serbia who, on a certain calendar, want to celebrate it right then. I don't see why we can't, as a very large group, take advantage of our civil rights and freedoms, which even through the Constitution are guaranteed to congratulate us at a certain time. So I've also seen this tendency that the names "monah" and "monachin" are deleted from this social security law more as some attempt to put it somewhere, to forget it somewhere. I say, besides monks and nuns, there is also one population, and on average at least five people per living monastery, and there are over 150 living in the country of Serbia, which are absolutely not socially cared for, so I think it is a failure of the Ministry of Faith of the Republic of Serbia. Although there, according to titles, really professional people have been sitting there, the works of the past few years have not proved to be the most professional, as if they were afraid of their own shadows, let alone to oppose some lions or hyenas, wolves who have been sitting in certain ministries for a long time. Fearing of being opposed to them, they must not vote for the status of certain groups and certain populations to be represented. I call upon the government to make a little more bills and better define the insurance of the temptations, and that these names "monah" and "monachin" are so easily deleted from its laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12741	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12742	I just commended you, and you turned off the power. I see the Madam Chairman is doing very well at a completely empty table where the presidency sits; she does her own job and secretary, and his assistant and everyone else. It's like he heard my words. On behalf of the DSS, I wanted to support the amendment that my colleague, Mijaljević, submitted because I consider it to be entirely in spirit with what was the policy of the previous governments. The members of the laws that were in force at the time found a formulation that monks and nuns had the right to social and health insurance, not only because monks and nuns are actually carriers of our tradition, religion and culture, but also because I think the lowest level of insurance that you have offered here as a model is not something worthy of the lives of these people. I would like to say that the former governments of Vojislav Kostunica, and above all Mr Milan Radulovic, as minister of religion at the time, fully understood the spirit of the church and the monastery, and that at that time they fought for the status of monks and nuns. I don't think what's already acquired should be lifted that way because it's going to be very difficult to find in some of the following formulas. I think they should stay. What is contentious and what we should comment on is that it simply falls into the eyes that only in this set of laws, which is seven, a few days we are dealing with them, the SPC and the monasteries in several laws have been found as those to whom some rights have been taken away. It's just amazing that the Ministry of Faith never responded in any way, even though we pointed to them. That's what the MPs have been pointing to every time. I am grateful to the minister who has found a way to adopt the two amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, actually Mr Nikola Lazic, which concerned this matter. Since there are also no large funds at stake here, I think it should remain in the formulation -- monks and nuns, because otherwise it will become quite clear that this government's policy is directed against the SPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12743	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, I submitted the amendment before the SRS parliamentary group to Article 5. The amendment reads as follows: "Article 5(1), point 1 percent 15 is replaced by a percentage of 20". Otherwise, Article 5 of the Law suggests adding to Article 35a of the current law Article 35b, which reads as follows: "The basis of the contribution for the compulsory health insurance of persons for whom the funds for payment of contributions are provided in the budget of the Republic is the monthly basis of the contribution of 15% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid per employee in the previous year, according to the published data by the Republic's authority responsible for statistics affairs. The amount of the monthly basis of the contribution behind Article 1 each year shall be published by the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs and shall be used for the calculation and payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance starting on 1 January of the year for which the contributions are determined and paid. "The government has decided to reject my amendment with an explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the basis for calculating the contributions for those categories of persons is defined as an optimal solution, at an average of 15% of the average monthly earnings paid per employee in the year preceding the year for which the contribution is determined and paid, taking into account the expected growth of the average monthly earnings as accounting size and the estimated amount of funds planned to be allocated to the burden of the budget, in the next period through the appraisal of the relevant ministry for these purposes. "The proposal proposed a base of contribution for compulsory health insurance for those for whom funds for payment of contributions are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget at 15% of the monthly earnings in the Republic. My amendment suggested that the base be not 15%, but 20%. In view of the fact that it is the persons in the category of socially endangered population who do not meet the conditions for obtaining the characteristics of insurance undertakings on the other hand, according to the law governing the compulsory health insurance system, or if the compulsory health insurance rights do not qualify as a member of the insurance family, which, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, are provided with the means of payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance, the SRS considers that the proposal to make the basis at 20% is justified. I will only point out that the proposal for this law in Article 9 of the transitional provision found that the basis of the contribution for compulsory health insurance, exclusively for 2009, for those for whom the payment of contributions is provided in the Republic's budget, amounts to 10% of the monthly earnings in the Republic. The Serbian Radical Party believes this is not in the interest of Serbian citizens and there will be more words later on when an amendment to Article 9. I propose that the government accept the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs on this bill, as this would protect the interests of poor Serbian citizens, who, unfortunately, are growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12745	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Time is available for six minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting first to support the amendment of SRS MP Sladjan Myajević and to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia should reconsider and accept it once more. Also, I am reporting to support the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Ms Lidija Dimitrijevic's SRS MPs to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We heard how this amendment reads – that the contribution from 15% changes to 20%. We also heard the argument of the Serbian government, so I would not repeat it, but for the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to read that it is basically a member of the 5th proposed law. He says the basis of the contribution for compulsory health insurance of persons for whom the funds for payment of contributions are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia referred to in Article 8(1) of point 15) of the Law is proposed at the level of 15% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid by an employee in the year preceding the year for which the contribution is determined and paid, and according to the published data by the Republic's authority in charge of finance affairs. The payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance shall start from 1 January of the year for which the contributions are determined and paid. In view of the fact that the Health Insurance Act provides that the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides funds for the payment of contributions for the compulsory health insurance of persons referred to in Article 22 of that Law, namely: 1) natural persons, i.e. insurance companies belonging to a group of the population exposed to an increased risk of illness, 2) persons whose health care is required in relation to prevention, repression, early detection and treatment of diseases of greater socio-medical significance, (3) persons who are in the category of socially endangered population and who do not meet the conditions for obtaining the property of insurance undertakings under another basis, i.e. under that law, and 4) persons who do not qualify as a member of the insurance family, who are subject to the law of the Republic of Serbia according to the system of compulsory health insurance provision. In view of the fact that in 2008, around 720,000 of these insurance companies, i.e. persons to be provided with funds from the budget on behalf of the contribution, are registered in 2009, the year of the global economic crisis and the severe social misery, the number of these users will increase significantly. The Serbian Radical Party believes the negative effects of the global economic crisis will cause financial and social problems due to high inflation of the foreign trade deficits, unemployment, collection, layoffs, which will inevitably lead to even greater poverty for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As a doctor, I can't help but say poverty follows the disease. This government must understand that investment in health care is the right investment. Investment in healthcare is not only public spending, but investment in the sustainable economic development of society. In Serbia, the head of the health care population stands out 186 euros, placing Serbia in Europe's poorest health systems. Health is the ultimate value of every person, but unfortunately, most of us understand it only when we get sick. Unfortunately for Serbian citizens, the population is at risk in Serbia, so the existence of the Serbian people and the state is at risk. She is threatened with white fever, by dying of infectious diseases, and these are mainly poverty diseases such as tuberculosis, hepatitis - a disease of dirty hands that leads to cirrhosis of the liver and fatal outcome. And what is today an epidemiological problem is chronic infectious diseases, cardiovascular, malignant diseases that hair Serbian citizens. That is why the Serbian Radical Party proposed this amendment to help the poorest and poorest part of Serbia's population in 2009, in which we are not expected to have anything nice or good. I hope, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, to whom this assistance is most needed, that the government will reconsider this amendment and accept it and thus help the most vulnerable population of Serbia. I would also like to point out because of Serbian citizens that determining the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance in the manner proposed by the Serbian Radical Party will not negatively affect the business of business operators, given that the proposed changes are made to the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance as a type of contribution to compulsory social security of the natural person for whom the funds are provided on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So what you need to do is, this percentage we've increased from 15% to 20% from another part of the budget, and you move it to this part that would be useful and meaningful. On behalf of the SRS, once again, I propose that amendments and Mr. Sladjan Myaljević and Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12747	Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 5? No, I don't. ) Before we move to the debate on the details of the amendment submitted to Article 5, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the scheduled start of the Second Extraordinary Session, which was scheduled for today, 21 January 2009, will be postponed for an hour after the debate has ended in detail, a certain break and conclusion of the First Extraordinary Session, and may be held until 16.00 today. The reason for the postponement is our assessment Monday at the agreement of the president of the parliamentary clubs that four hours is enough to discuss in detail 11 amendments as submitted by the MPs at agenda points five, six and seven. It is obvious that today is a high-quality and useful debate and that the debate on amendments requires more time and that is why we move the start of the scheduled session from 14.00 hours to the time I explained. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12748	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since you from the ruling majority in the adoption of this agenda voted to return to all these seven laws, which are called so - by following the laws with the budget, in a united debate, I will now return very briefly with one or two sentences to these previous two laws, first and foremost to the presentation of Mrs Dragutinovic, whom I did not replicate at the time when she spoke in the final word about the law on administrative taxes, and also the law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income. The amendments to the SRS, our MP, which relate to administrative fees, I also remind the MPs and the public, were so because we essentially wanted this law to be on the agenda and not to vote on it. That's why our amendments were like that, so we proposed to delete each member individually, because this is the only business option. In your explanation, Madam Minister, you said why we asked for it. This is because we insisted that administrative fees not be increased and that the burden of the economic crisis should not be shifted to the citizens of Serbia, but that the government should find some opportunities to overcome the crisis as easily and as easily as possible in these circumstances. You kept saying when an MP spoke from a pay phone and you said it wasn't about an increase in administrative taxis. Of course it's working. When you concluded in your final statement after the amendment debate was concluded, you said this - that administrative fees are with us, according to the law that you will probably adopt in the Assembly, 5% of the national gross product, and that the practice in Europe is to be 7% and that there is still room to increase administrative fees. Mrs Dragutinovic, you must take care when you talk about EU countries and what level their administrative fees, electricity, etc. are, that is, to take a little care of what level the number of unemployed is and to compare a little with the relationship in Serbia and what the average salary in Serbia means. You say it's about 300 euros and it's about the average profit in Serbia, and you know it has nothing to do with reality. This is probably a statistical and mathematical calculation of the average, but this is the average of which Bojana Krist pays 20,000 euros. So most people in Serbia, other than those employed in the state administration and local self-government, therefore, those financed from the budget, are working for a maximum of 200 euros. It is a fact and it is something that will be confirmed by those who are monitoring the work of this Parliament. So the government should take a little care of that too, especially from the point of view of the number of unemployed and from the aspect of this fear that we can daily follow in the media. They tell us how many ministers the ministry will be fired in; it should be your rapper and motive when you speak and when you propose some laws to the National Assembly. I would also like very briefly to refer to Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic's amendment to Article 4(1). Proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation of income tax on citizens of certain types of income, where it proposed that Article 4(1) be read as follows: "2009." replace the words "2009 and 2010". I'd say very briefly that you'd even know what they're talking about. Article 4 of the bill states that no tax on income from agriculture and forestry is to be determined and does not pay on catastar income for 2008 and 2009. My colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic explained perfectly why we Serbian radicals suggest that this provision applies to 2010, with really many examples that are very lifelike and that are citizens of Serbia and that they understand. You are officially in an act signed by Mirko Cvetkovic that the amendment is not accepted since the exemption from taxation of agricultural income on cadastrian income for 2008 and 2009. What does that mean, I don't know, because it can be measured correctly for 2010. It's not an exact piece of information, you know, if you say you think something's right. You further say: "and reflects the continuity of current legal solutions – the exemption from taxation for 2004 and 2005 and then 2006 and 2007. "We fully understood here the retroactivity of the application of this provision and there is nothing controversial about 2008. What we received as an official explanation with the signing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and what you said from this place is not the same. You have said that you are aware that this law is not good and that you plan to propose in the first quarter of the Assembly a brand new law and that what is foreseen by the MPs through the amendments will probably be envisaged in that law. So it's not the same thing you said and what Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic said. Even if it is true that we will have a new text of the law, it is in no way an obstacle to accept the amendment to Lidija Dimitrijevic and that you are now predicting that agricultural producers will be exempt from the tax on cadastrian income and for 2010. In fact, I wanted to ask you something else about this, but when it comes to agriculture and the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards our peasant, then it really opens up new and new topics, and it can be said a lot because it is a fact that you don't care, not one government back a few years, to say quite certain, since 2000, since DOS is in power, it doesn't take care of the peasant, it doesn't take care of what all eyes are against. You know, in this economic crisis that follows us, if we don't get out of agricultural products, and at some good prices, then the citizens of Serbia will starve to death, you're aware of that. On the other hand, we can't expect the peasants to produce anything at all, to be on the market, and there's no minimum profit from it. Given that since 2004, as of 2007, there has been this regulation, this norm that has freed farmers, and you here say that the continuity of so far-called legal exemptions from taxation was maintained from the end of 2007, my essential question, to which you should answer, is - what will happen to the tax paid for 2008, because in 2008 until this law that we are now discussing was not covered and not in continuity, right? It's not. Given that our peasants are very safe when it comes to the state, I believe that many have paid taxes for 2008, and then the practical question is what does it mean to them now, at the beginning of 2009, tax exemptions for 2008? Did you possibly predict for those who paid for it to sort of transfer it to some period when they again pay taxes? You know, this is not the only area, very often I hear remarks, say, cabbies in Belgrade, where a large number of people pay taxes neatly, contribute, etc., and there are some people who also deal with taxi operations, who don't pay all that. Then, after a while, the government comes up with some regulation to round up some reckoning, I have no idea why, that whoever didn't pay doesn't even have to pay. Then it is to harm the one who is doing his duties to the state in orderly orderly. You would have to be a little more life-long in proposing regulations and fellow MPs who vote for government proposals should also be a little more in agreement with what really happens in life. Finally, I came to the proposal for a law on contributions to compulsory social security and amendments to Article 5, where I suggested that the words "Minister in charge" be replaced by the words "competent Ministry". This is one of the amendments that we Serbian radicals persistently endure whenever you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit a bill where you say the minister is responsible for something that the minister can't really be in charge of. In your explanation, you say you do not accept this amendment, given that Article 23 is Article 2. The State Administration Act is prescribed, among other things, the responsibility of the Minister for the adoption of certain rules. That is the problem, because and when this law is passed we have warned you that you cannot pass a law that is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Such a power of the ministers, as you foresee it also by this Law on the Ministry and later by all the laws you make, where you determine the ministers' jurisdiction that they do not have under the Constitution, is obviously unconstitutional. Even when we talked about the Ministry Act and when we turned our attention to it, we always said it wasn't good for someone who was a minister, no matter who he was right now or who he was going to be or who he belonged to, he had too broad powers. The Ministry is an institution. And why are we talking about the Constitution all the time? Because of Article 136(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies laid down by law. "So, the Constitution did not predict you as an organ, Madam Minister, you are an elder of the organ. It's the organ that should stand in the law, both of these and each other. Try to explain, I have the impression that you fully understand, and your colleagues at government meetings when you propose laws to take care of it. We have to draw attention to this every time and then you don't accept it. It takes 15 minutes to talk about that amendment, and you never learn a lesson and every time you want to be ministers of state. No, you're civil servants, basically the Elder of the Authority, you're an organ, but the Constitution doesn't see you as a state body, because you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12749	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12750	I have submitted a second amendment to similar or almost identical content, only to another member of this law on contributions to compulsory social security. All the information I gave to the ministry, the government and my colleagues in the Assembly, and I'm supplementing it with a few more information, and I confirm everything that I said – that "priests, church officials, monks and nuns" should remain monks and nuns, not to be deleted. In addition to monks and nuns, I would even add temptations and temptations, as I explained earlier that people in monasteries in that status spend between two, three and even eight years. It happens that even after seven or eight years, some of them don't go to a higher level, they don't become monks, they go back to the world, so it's really irresponsible to keep people in unprotected condition for a while. On the occasion of the submission of these amendments, as I said earlier, I was able to speak to the legal department in Patriarchy SPC, as well as to some lawyers who know the area. I got more information from them. As far as I was able to understand between the ranks, the people who are currently leading the Ministry of Faith didn't understand them very well, so the Ministry of Faith didn't support those views, so my reaction was indeed addressed to the Ministry of Faith this time. In addition to being kicked out of a certain classification and having a new formulation brought down to the lowest level of social protection, I have to add these few new explanations in order not to be understood, and it seems to me that it is going in that direction, that in these monasteries live people who are minor parasites and who are literally waiting for someone to support them. I'll remind you that from 1945 until sixty-sixty years ago, 97.5% of the property, buildings, forests, industries, etc., various alloys, gifts from people in the form of houses, properties, etc. It's the only organism that's managed to survive with only 2.5% of its body all these years. Thank God, he's regenerated, he's moving forward, but some want to slow them down. There are people in these monasteries, as I just said, who are highly educated, and more than that, who are masters and doctors of science. These monasteries, although living and living on what little property they had left after 1946 or after sixty and some years, managed to actually produce enviable results in terms of shaping different farms, are engaged in agriculture; there are painting, iconographic, dubious workshops; they are involved in publishing and in very, very serious publishing, in which many professions are involved. Of course, they define them through their work, and if they didn't have that higher education, they wouldn't even be able to go public with the volumes and volumes of books we've seen over the past 15-20 years at many shops, bookstores and book fairs how well they were done, prepared and how they were handed over to people for further use. So what I'm saying is that this classification is at the lowest level, that they're reduced to the level of housekeepers, and on the other hand, besides having higher education and doing very, very serious work, they've been able to regenerate what this country, the successor of that SFRY, took from 1946 to sixty-sixties, they've managed to recover all of it, to raise it to one much higher level. We are proud of what we find in these monasteries and we are proud when some of our friends from abroad, as I just said, diplomats, ambassadors, consuls, with their friends, families, are warmly received in these monasteries where in their native languages, they are explained how great and valuable monuments of culture they are. On the one hand, that's why we're happy and happy, but it seems that our delight lasts until we get out of the monastery circle, until some ministers return to their chairs again, and then watch as some groups take away as much of their contributions as possible, so that they can transfer to some of their stakeholders, some of their secretaries, or have some of their relatives and friends hire on various agencies. I see it's not as black as it seems in certain moments, especially because you've accepted these two amendments from DSS counterparts Nikola Lazic, and there are some people who understand some things, so I would ask you to better define this situation in collaboration with the Ministry of Faith and the situation where some people are in the convents. In addition to having monks and nuns who replace believers for a while, a month, two, three, a year, two, three, you have the Jeromanacs that cover the priestly duty of some parishioners that have been emptied. These parishes can be emptied for a week or two days or even a few years. I remember, in the 1990s, the student monastery covered as many as three parishes with its Jeromonases. It's not the parishes of the Prince of Michael, Slavi, and I don't know what, it's the parish where you lose your "lade level" wheel; when someone calls you at two o'clock in the night to help him, to celebrate him last time in life or something like that, and you start by not knowing what kind of snow, to the door, it takes you a few hours to get there, even by a field car. I think that they are professional and that they are doing really very serious tasks and that because of all this classification, because of the speed I wrote only a formulation, they need to be improved, they need to be provided a little more separation or, in some way, support, especially, in addition to what the Ministry of Faith did not see, that, besides the monks and nuns in that classification, they find the temptations. They really spend a very serious number of years in these monasteries and are much more serious about the monastery, much tighter because they see that the less they leave the circle of monasteries precisely because of the habitation of life, than people who have a much longer life experience and are much more free in their movement. So that we don't have that humiliation that 10 - 15 people are being treated for one health book, that they're being taken by friends through connections by some private offices, and on the other hand, because of everything that they've given us through time and space and what they're going to give us, because a lot of things are fleeting here, and they remain what they've done and what they've done despite the terrors that have survived over the past 50, 60, 70 years, it's our job to help them do even better, even safer, and to make it much better for us when we go there. I can't describe to you the feeling of you entering such a building and standing on the smooth stone of the Hilandar monastery or the monastery of the Studenica, and only in a moment do you think that you are who knows which thousandths standing in that place that was erected by St. Sava or St. Simeon eight centuries ago. I don't think there's a man whose heart doesn't play. For all of this, I ask you to take another look and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12751	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12752	This amendment refers to a change in rate. Instead of 10%, as the government has suggested, the SRS proposed an amendment to make that rate 15% in 2009, but that is the same rate proposed in one of the previous members of the bill. This is Article 5. The draft law, new Article 35b, that the monthly basis of the contribution amounts to 15% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid per employee in the previous year. We ask that the same rate be applied in Article 9, not 10%, as the government suggests, but 15%, is the same category of insurance, that it is valid for 2009 and that it is the basis for what was in 2008. To indicate why we represent this attitude. If the government accepted what we are proposing then there would be virtually no reason why there would be a Article 9 because it was conceived as a transitional provision with fact only during 2009. The reason why the government went to this transitional solution is the estimate that there will not be enough funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to apply a 15% rate, but they estimate that with a 10% rate it is possible to meet something, but then raise several issues. If it is in Article 5. The bill, it's a new Article 35b, given something that's standard, which is a rule, which will be valid independently of the financial year, and of course from the moment this law is passed... Just to be clear, it's about getting in line with the Health and Health Insurance Act, where a special category of insurance for which the contributions are provided by the state in its budget and there are categories: risky diseases, monks, etc. It's just that part about the health insurance contribution. Now let me state our reasons. This is no limit or limit to these Euro-Atlantic integrations, to be clear. It's being watched by the IMF, which wants to curb, reduce the level of intervention from the budget according to mandatory forms of insurance. This pressure they suffer not only through this law, but through all possible arrangements they have with the IMF, because there is a clear warning. However, if the state has taken the obligation to provide health care to certain categories of the population, that healthcare must be provided. The funds shall be provided on the basis of the contribution. The payer of the contribution is the state, from the budget. These citizens must be even with human rights in the health care work with other citizens. One who is secured by working relationship, and there is a payment obligation, one is an employer, the other is something that goes on his salary and profits. This formally does not have an employer, but because it belongs to a socially defined category, for which the law imposes an obligation on the State, the source of funds for payment of contributions is in the budget. This is not a simple transfer of funds from the budget to communities and compulsory insurance organisations, but a guarantee of respect for the human rights of a citizen or a group of citizens in a socio-economic situation. That's what this is about. Because of this equation, it is impossible to selectively look at the rate. We had something extremely selective, and even led to a tragic situation when in 1993, because of the known hyperinflation, we threw out of every man's life as a statistical data. Why? Because it's impossible to compare. To compare 1993, those zeroes, inflation, etc.? It is not necessary to predict exactly that fate in 2009, so now say - in 2009 it will be 10%. It's no big excuse that the basis here is defined, given the change of laws, the previous year is certainly 2008. She wasn't that spectacular from the point of view of the base to which this rate would apply. I think that's a big reason - equalizing all users, equating anyone who's a user. There's some source of funds to contribute. If there is a working relationship, it is known: employer - employee. A different base is calculated. The rate is applied. There's also for PIO, both for unemployment and for health insurance. This is about a specific category, where the state guarantees health care. The measure of state guarantees is exactly that contribution. Why is there a contribution to be paid? In order to make a status balance for all insurance companies. If it wasn't for that, it would be pointless, then health insurance could take as much of his funding from the state budget as it needs. No, here you go with contributions, with rates, with base calculations, to equalize users. It's the same situation as with mandatory insurance for PIO employees in the state service. The State pays their contributions to its para-state organisation, the PIO Fund. Why? In order to equate the user, an insurance undertaking with an insurance undertaking belonging to another sector (industry, private property, etc.). Through this, respect for the principle of equality between citizens is manifested, among other things, equality before the law. That's the only way the state can guarantee it. Of course, if you would accept this amendment then Article 9 would become meaningless, unnecessary, because there is currently a fact only in 2009, a limited fact. I'm afraid of another situation. I'll tell you the most honest thing about it. Perhaps this exception from Article 9. The bill shows, from the point of view of the budget, extremely good results, so next year there's a change of Article 35b, so from 15 to 10%, so 10% of the average profit is the basis for applying the rate calculated for health insurance. There's only one way to define the base here. It's not the base of average earnings, it's the standard, 15% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic in the previous year, per month. For 2009, you said 10% of the average profit is the basis and this applies to the rate, which is also prescribed by this law, on the level of contributions to health insurance. I'm afraid you don't make a rule out of this exception next year. It is certainly of interest to us that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it must be said, is a social aspect to be a guarantee. Why? Because he's a guarantee of social justice. Social justice is provided by the state because it guarantees the rights prescribed by law. You can't have one individual right, which you've defined as the basis of 15%, now in 2009, to say that this individual right is going to be defined by the base being 10%. Impossible variant. A similar problem arises at the next item of the agenda. The question is, is this where the system is being created, or are there exceptions being made? The National Assembly is not authorized to make exceptions, not authorized to make precedents. I am absolutely sure that in this tense financial year 10% will also be the basis, it will be quite unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia's budget. At the end of the year, someone would draw a conclusion - so that gave good results, we swam in 2009. For this story, it is also important how many such insurance companies there are, how often they use health services, but there are some special categories where health care services are guaranteed and it is necessary to report because they are health risk-free persons. This is the first category from this point 23a, which has been upgraded, and this is all prescribed by the Health and Health Insurance Act. Therefore, I believe that by adopting this amendment, in practice, Article 9 deletes itself, essentially erases itself. He could stay, because he would only practically specify that the previous year of 2008, but in the current proposal, as Article 5 looks, he is a member of the 9th surplus. I object to making exceptions from year to year, especially if an exception is now being made, because, if I may say so, not only should we make it possible but we should not call the government if it pays out of these positions more significant funds to health insurance. We don't have the right to call them if the funds are coming from this position. Why? A few months ago, we passed two very important laws, about write-offs, about freezing, I don't know what term was used, about temporary suspension of payment of contributions and taxes, so health insurance and forty-seven billion liabilities, dinar, I think the cut was 31. 12. In 2007. Our health care is down. If they were to start to collect the claim, they would not be able to pay off current obligations based on health insurance contributions today. If we gave in there, if that's where the state gave in, for the sake of orderly payment in 2008, in 2009, then the state needs to be broad-handed. I think there are two big reasons. One is that in this way the inequality in rights is promoted, inequality in the status of users of health services.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12753	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word, as referred to in Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12754	I'll just say a few sentences to clear something up. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance should not be regarded as separate from the Health Insurance Act. It's two laws that represent, practically, the whole. This law only determines the basis; the fact is, not systematically, since in 2009, it deviates from the base that is established, which is 15% of the average profit; therefore, only the basis, not the risk categories of the population for which the funds will be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The second law, which is the Health Insurance Act, determines which categories of the population, so that monks and nuns, so I did not accept that amendment, included in the risk categories of the population, and under this law they were essentially obliged to pay a contribution to health insurance. So they're covered by health care. They are a risk category of the population, i.e. that category of population for which the funds will be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of truth, all categories of the population were covered by health care, and risk categories, with the funds not being provided from the budget, but from the existing funds of the Health Insurance Fund. I'd like to refer to a question or a message from Mrs. Radet. When I talked about taxes, I didn't talk about heights, about the nominal amount of those taxis precisely because I respected the fact that Serbia is a poorer country and that is why it is always better to compare taxis' participation in the social product than the amount of taxis themselves. If there was any confusion, I never said there was room to increase the total tax burden, fiscal burden. Taxis may be increased, but if other taxes are reduced. As for the tax on cadastrian income, it is charged only after the tax administration's tax settlement has been delivered, and the tax administration has not delivered solutions since 2004. So no one's paid that tax yet. They haven't given a solution since 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12755	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pensions and INVALIDS OSIGURANJU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Zoran Krasić, Milica Vojić-Marković and together Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djerić. In writing, MP Donka Banovic withdrew the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12756	The amendment was rejected, but I know that everyone would be happy to accept it. If I can start by saying what it is, in fact, – it is a new definition of the basis for all possible alignments when it comes to the pension-inhabitation system, which will be applied in 2009. It's a new member of 261a. I need to read it first of all because of the people following this transmission, that they simply understand what it's all about. There are no spectacular promises here, all promises, in collision with reality, remain only recorded for the sake of history in the papers and in some kind of emotional memory, both of those who spoke on this subject and those who hoped. Article 261a: "Excludingly from the provisions of Article 70(4), Articles 76, paragraphs 2 and 5, Articles 80, Article 81, Article 224(2), Article 234 and Article 244(7). The law on pension and disability insurance, the minimum amount of pension, the amount of cash compensation and the amount of the general score, established for October 2008 by an increase of 10% together with the regular harmonisation of pensions in accordance with the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and now goes the most important thing, "is the basis for the payment of pensions, i.e. the monetary compensation and the determination of the value of the general points for 2009 and will not be changed in 2009. "Station 2 is interesting only in saying what will happen after the end of 2009 and that this will be the basis for the first next pension adjustment in 2010. I can fully understand the problem – the state of our economy, how it works, how it does not work, how contributions are paid for pension-inhabited insurance, which are unsettled commitments, what is the perspective, whether the number of depositors of that type of contribution will increase in mass, whether they are able to transfer funds, since it is guaranteed in the mandatory insurance system, but it is a guarantee of the exercise of the rights and use of rights that an individual acquires under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Please, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not this one, but all the governments of the Republic of Serbia in the pension and disability insurance system have at least two kinds of responsibilities. The first type of responsibility is based on the fact that the state guarantees the exercise of pension-inhabitation rights. She has prescribed mandatory pension-inhabitation insurance, she has set up a Pension and Disability Insurance Fund and she is responsible for the operation of the fund. If there is a lack of income in relation to the non-expension, it is obliged to resuscitate it. How, will he approve credit borrowing, whether out of the budget, whether or not, let the government handle it. Others are regulations that apply to that. But the government of the Republic of Serbia is also responsible for providing its economic policy with the preservation of the substance of what is the enjoyment of individual rights, so that this situation does not happen. Some estimates say, for the first 12 days of 2009, because of these things that were happening with course and prices for little, everything that was plus in the pension and disability insurance system was melted after the 10% pension alignment and regular harmonisation. It's actually been eaten, and it doesn't really exist anymore. Then the question arises whether we should be running a freezing policy in 2009. Because this is a policy of freezing, so let's be clear. Let's freeze our pensions on an existing level. What are we gonna do with other things? Is there anything else we need to freeze? If the Government intends to freeze other things in part of personal consumption, please exit the system, exit the plan, exit the program that will be thoroughly worked out, guaranteeing that there is no Krist, etc., that there is no escalation and spending by breaking hands, by assembling etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Excuse me, please, if you in a private bank have money so that you can share big salaries, apply tax rates, make it progressive, make sure it settles its obligations. Don't enter into negotiations. I'd very much like you to save my company, but to give me six months to pay taxes and contributions later, you know, I hire a large number of workers. A large number of workers employ and that small company that has five or six employees. His boss needs a big company. He's got five. I'm just calling for one system to be built, please, I'm not asking you to strangle someone, to choke someone, to lock someone up, to be somebody's mother, and someone's stepmother. No, there has to be a system. Can they grow profits? I can. What should be the basis for profit growth? Probably productivity, it has excuses, because it also looks like a stimulating factor for everyone else -- I've worked, I've achieved greater results, and I need to earn more. Where there is no cover in productivity growth, and profit growth, which is the basis, explain it to me. Then it's a monopoly, a position and something. Of course, this is a retirement break. With them you have now practically frozen, in 2009 they will be frozen in respect of the rights that are guaranteed to them by all other provisions of the law. Just to draw your attention, there are some things that are so disgusting that they have to get kicked out of our law, especially with those laws that regulate the exercise of personal and inalienable rights. There's a specific pension case here now. It's a social policy nadvarian, if I may say so. The amount of pensions shall be taken into account, the contributions paid and the amount of pensions determined. Retirement is consistent with some growth. Why? To preserve the value of the law. That right, when it's recognised, was worth x, in the meantime something about 5% more happened, which affects that X and that X has to rise by 5%. If it doesn't rise by 5%, then x came from x minus 2% or 5%. Then there's no personal right, it's ruined, it's not respected. All of these provisions in our regulations that talk about some indexation, about some alignment and relate to some parameter: the cost of life, the rise in prices to a small, one, the other, the third combination, does not matter, but there must be a formula that supports and reflects the reality of the preservation of the substance, it can only be a corrective factor, but that corrective factor must not compromise the basic right that is recognised. In this room, you're all temporarily in a working relationship, and what's safe, you'll be retired. Your relationship with pensioners today is, in fact, your relationship with yourself. There's no demagogy here, these are more advocated, these are less advocated, they say 90 percent alignment, these 60%, these 30%. A few months ago, I told you, if something isn't done systemically, the pensions will average 30% of this, so it's going to be what: he asked for bigger, he lost out of the bag. It was asked for 70% at the time it was 49%. When talking about being 70% real, it was 49%. Why? Because the state has not fulfilled its obligation under the law. Now we're spinning around and we can demagoguely talk both this and that, but I don't see a system solution here, I don't see a perspective, I see only one freezing here. From the financial point of view, this is an ideal measure. When this is adopted, the minister says - I cut budget spending, and the end of the story. Let's see where all the savings reserves are, that the costs come down to something that's necessary, if we want to. Maybe we won't, maybe we won't accept this. I need to distract you, and those countries where there are so-called. The individualist concept of market economy, such as America, and this one where there is a social concept of market economy, such as Germany, and this one where there is a feudal concept of market economy, such as Japan, have raised their hands from these ideological differences and rags what could be patched up so that the system could function. It's even harder for us, because every economic downturn for prominence threatens a few tenths of our national and state-of-the-art security, and then we're vulnerable. I do not want dissatisfied people and people living in Serbia every day, every other day, or at least once in the year for their elemental rights to choose a location -- whether to put their hands in a container or to come before the Assembly to complain about their rights. If we can resolve that, let us resolve it, but it has to be a systemic character, because in Serbia the "goodness of his cow" is true, when I don't have, the one that's a little more than me, I'd take his eyes out. That's our logic, that's our mentality. He drives south and hates the one driving the jeep. I'm not saying we drill the tires of the jeep, but let's make these differences not so visible, not visible, but not so drastic that they also cause this other kind of instability. As far as pensioners are concerned, I don't know what kind of year this will be if this is adopted in 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12757	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted. The amendment was rejected by the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12758	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a set of laws that MPs and the National Assembly have been working on since 12 January, for when the session is scheduled, there is this one, which has a minimum of 1,600,000 eyes pointed at. These are the eyes of the pensioners, who were practically put into a situation to wait for every moment to see if they could survive in 2009 and how the coalition in power that promised them hills and valleys would apply to them. So, the law in front of us, just for a little reminder, was already in the process in December, when we adopted the budget, because it was one of the following laws with the budget. At that time, DSS MPs submitted this amendment, and then a similar amendment to the PUPS was also found, which, however, was not handed over in due time, so it was never spoken of, nor considered. Meanwhile, the law was withdrawn, re-puted in the procedure in January, as I recalled, and the Democratic Party of Serbia and I remained on this same amendment. We've submitted that amendment, unlike a PUPS that hasn't intervened at all this time. So why did the Democratic Party of Serbia submit this amendment, what does it mean? The Serbian government, which is with the great help of Boris Tadic, who is also the author of the government and the creator of government policy and government and this policy towards pensioners... They promised pensioners that they would live with dignity, and that part of the SPS-PUPS coalition promised another step – that their pre-election programme would receive a pension of 70% of the average personal income in Serbia would be installed in the government's programme. What is evident today is that the pensioners were deceived, that the ruling coalition was lying to the pensioners. The fact that she lied to them is that now he's trying to make them think that they went well because they got an extraordinary 10% increase in November. That way they went well and that part of the election promise was fulfilled. On the other hand, the profit of an extraordinary 10% increase ate the cost of living at the same time, ate inflation. Let me remind you, in the meantime, they've accumulated fuel, energy, electricity, life supplies, travel expenses, not to count, because it's 15 minutes short for these lists. Since that moment, in November and December 2008, the public was really very upset by the state's developments and the announced increase in costs, i.e. by the fall of the value of dinars, the ministers of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, the rich and party officials who were in the government, very actively and very effectively involved and at the same time declared pensioners to be the main culprits and brakers of Serbia's complete social development, because, for God's sake, they won't be given there by some most lax and arrogant pensioners who are constantly seeking increases, and they won't build roads, they won't be given to pregnant women, they won't be invested in the economy. In this way, the public's blade should turn to the pensioners as the main culprits, but one part of the public is actually supported by the media and done so. What is essential is not the pensioners' fault that they are looking for what people in pre-election campaigns promised them, which in the election campaigns of the political party SPS, PUPS and DS promised to live with dignity, that their pensions would be 70% of their average personal income. Simply, these people are not guilty, nor are the instructions of politicians to make such irresponsible promises, as in the pre-election campaign they knew there would be no funds for any possible fulfillment of the pre-election wishes. Speaking of these promises, let me remind you, the promises were 200,000 jobs, Serbia as an EU candidate, a white Schengen list, an increase in standards and, of course, a "Fiat". I cannot take the opportunity to comment on something as an DSS MP who has repeatedly said that lying is a pre-election promise that could not be fulfilled in these times that we already live in. At that time, in a New Year's interview, Mr. President of the Republic of Tadic said MPs were deliberately commenting "Fiat", because, for God's sake, we are not looking forward to such a great success. Please, between being realistic, to see what is happening and to warn the public, between telling fairy tales (and really respecting fairy tales and loving them very much in these years, but as a politician, I cannot offer my voters fairy tales but a real life), it was quite clear that what are facts must be respected, and the facts showed that there was no means to do so in the budget, without being blamed for pensioners, nor are the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia who warn that the "Fiat" is a false promise. The law that is before us, which is this law on amendments to the Law on PIO, found that the minimum amount of pensions, the amount of cash compensation and the amount of the 2008 general score does not change in 2009, which means, in a very simple language, pensions will not change. So they'll be frozen in 2009. This puts aside the part of the law, which was considered twice a year, to bring pensions into line with the cost of living and earning in Serbia. What does that really mean? This means that the amount of pensions in 2009 will not be increased even by the amount of inflation and the cost of life. In January, just to remind you, the dinar has fallen by 6.60% so far, these few days, and the cost of living has been and how it has increased, not to mention gas, energy, utility services, telephone, life supplies, etc. What do I mean? Not even for the value of how much the cost of life has increased, how much inflation has increased, pensioners will not get the approval. In fact, this bill does not change the amount of pensions for not 12 months in 2009, but 16 months. The increase is going to be 1. 4. In 2010, when it's time for a regular alignment. By then, pensions will be as they are, and then, of course, it will be a minimum increase of two to three percent, as the cost of living has increased in six months. The fact is that when Vojislav Kostunica left power (as he called extraordinary parliamentary elections) pensions were 60% of his personal income. We talked about being small, the real value is small. I have data on how they grew from 2000 to 2007, and they were really growing. Gentlemen, I can document that information for you because the MPs of a parliamentary group have repeatedly said that they were enormously small and did not follow the cost of life. They were growing from 2000 to 2007. What's even more interesting about that group that said that, they were regular. It wasn't news in the papers or in the media, it was normal for pensioners to get their pensions twice a month. What do I mean? They don't have 60% right now. All the economists we have consulted, and we have consulted them, say that the value of the current pension is not 60% and that it is much smaller, and that it also does not know what is the lower limit to which pensions can be reduced. It's very interesting to ask what the bottom line is and where it stands, in what law, to get it as information, because pensioners are interested in it. And that's what I'm saying on their behalf, today's pension value is not 60%. Until then, until that one. 4. In 2010, 400,000 pensioners receiving a minimum pension... and 200,000 receive a pension of not even 100 euros, so their extraordinary increase of 10% was 800, 900 dinars, and some in the disputed group had an increase of 9,000. The question is what will happen to those 400,000 pensioners who are in a very invisible situation. Will they be able to survive this year in 2009 only by listening to the EPP of our President Boris Tadic's message, which gives us very optimistic statements in the chosen words or by listening to the philosophical wisdom of a wise prime minister who muttering in his beard says this year will not be more difficult than it was in 2008? It's gonna be harder, we're all aware of that, these people who receive monthly contributions of nine thousand and how aware they are of the cost of our lives and how much statistics are one measure that doesn't touch them at all. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted the amendment. Our amendment proposes a new position that says: "In the period of rest of the general score pensioners whose pension amount is less than one quarter of the average salary", 29.11% of those 1.600,000, "received pensions increased by 10%, and pensioners whose pension amount is between one quarter and one half of the average salary in Serbia", such as 40.80%, "receive pensions increased by 5%". So we DSS MPs are fully aware of the reality in which the state lives. We are fully aware that the increase cannot be as much as promised by irresponsible politicians in pre-election campaigns. We want to show that there is a formula that is not linear and which, I can say, was a proposal from the finance minister, in an interview I read, that these categories of pensioners, and you saw from these percentages that I said -- 29.11 and 40.80, that's 70% of the pension population, must help survive this year. With all other resources, the government must help these people to bring this law to the level of decency, in fact, human and financial jurisdiction. In the budget, however restrictive, there are also many resources to increase and change this law. I sincerely hope that the government will find a way to accept this amendment submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia. I sincerely hope that those parliamentary groups that were particularly proud of their pre-election promises and said that they would even vote in favour of this amendment and thus show concern for our oldest citizens, who have earned their pension, have not won either the lottery, nor any murky actions, have earned it, it is something that is theirs and should live with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12759	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The amendment was rejected by the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12760	Dear Presidents, honourable Madam Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, and when I say "Citizens of Serbia", I address primarily our oldest citizens, pensioners, because this amendment concerns them, on the basis of an article. Paragraphs 145 and 163 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the PIO Parliamentary Group of New Serbia submitted the following amendment – Article 2 of Title 2 adds a new position, which reads: "For the minimum amount of pension whose amount of fines and the amount of the general points established for October 2008 did not exceed the value of 15,000 dinars, the increase is 30%, and in accordance with the provisions of the PIO Act is the basis for the payment of pensions, i.e. monetary fees and the determination of the general points for 2009 and will not be changed in 2009. "Short explanation: we from New Serbia are advocates of fairer pension payments to our oldest citizens who are no longer able to be further employed. Linear increases in pensions are not a fair way to distribute funds, because they are the most endangered citizens with very small pensions and they get at least a slight increase. If at least in the first step of the application of this law and the adoption of this amendment made the difference between those with the lowest pensions and those with higher pensions, it would be possible for citizens with such low pensions to bear at least one part the burden of the overall announced crisis. Now I want to explain the New Serbia amendment a little bit wider. If I remember correctly, and I don't seem to be deceived by memory, Madam Finance Minister, you were in those days of pre-election fighting, when it was debated, to God, about the concept of the budget, whether it would be social, investment, and in fact there was a struggle within the ruling coalition between the ministries that would get more money out of the budget, several times made a statement that as far as pensions and pension increases are concerned, the least pension needs to be increased. I'll wait for Mr. Srdjan to finish with you, because it's very important to me, believe me, for your word, to hear this. I expect you to go out for a pay phone after my presentation and explain to the citizens of Serbia with the lowest pensions that New Serbia's MPs are wrong and that you are right, but with a plea not to drag Harry Potter or Mandrake into the story. So, what do we from New Serbia want to say about this? It is true that those who have full employment, who have large salaries, deserve large salaries based on their positions, who have had the responsibility to have higher pensions, but it is also true that the amount of minimum pensions should at least give pensioners who receive those pensions as much as adequate life. In that sense, I understood your statements, perhaps as a cry for someone on this side of the opposition to give support. If you have followed well the media, we from New Serbia have given you support. I see you were later persuaded by these pensioners who have 50, 60, 80, and maybe 100,000, I don't know how true that is; I wish you'd talked to those pensioners who have seven or eight thousand pensions and hear their arguments. This is the way of distribution, i.e. pension payments, is not in line with European principles. As far as I'm aware, in Europe, the pension range is one to ten, and in the country of Serbia, which wants to join the EU so quickly, one to fourteen. So if someone got the votes of a pensioner on social justice stories, listen well, this is a classic social injustice. So those who have seven and eight thousand dinar pensions now receive, for God's sake, an increase of 800 dinars, and all these purchases (no less than 50%) have already eaten what they had, let alone this raise. Those who have little higher pensions, I don't claim that they are unfairly acquired and earned, receive practically an increase of 400,000 pensioners now have pensions. It's not socially responsible. Here one part of the ruling coalition, the largest recently had a famous slogan - fair. Brothers and sisters, dear gentlemen, this is not fair, and that is why you must answer to the citizens you lied about and who you deceived in the election campaign. We from the opposition and we from New Serbia, first of all, will always remind you of that. Don't be angry. This isn't fair, and it could have been done. So it took a little political will. Those who represented themselves in the ruling coalition as someone who represented the most vulnerable category of the population in our country, therefore, our oldest citizens, pensioners, represented about that minority part of the pensioners who, for our opportunities and for European opportunities, had quite decent pensions. Perhaps from New Serbia, according to our programme, we wouldn't insist too much on this if the large percentage of the money needed to pay off the pensions wasn't paid out of the budget. Therefore, if pensions were not paid out of the budget, it would be quite logical for those citizens who are now pensioners to invest in the pension fund on a percentage basis and receive pensions during the working century. But we live in difficult times when pensions, or pension payments, have practically become social benefits, unfortunately. If that's the case, then it has to be socially just. I expect you, Mrs Dragutinović, since I will shorten this discussion, that you come out here and explain to these fellow citizens who have seven and eight thousand pensions that they will get, according to what you gave, 700-800 dinars raise pensions, so on. an increase, which inflation and these purchases have already eaten. I'm just going to give an example of where the haughtiness of those who have and where the people's people are confirmed that they're fed up with hunger, they don't believe. So Telecom is a public state-owned company, and for the past year, it has profited from 120m euros; it has increased the price of telephone impulses, i.e. a telephone subscription by 250%. You did not punish the MPs, nor the ministers, nor the directors, nor pensioners with large pensions, you punished those who have exactly seven and eight thousand dinar pensions. They had a hard time. It's a shame we're all here. They had 78 dinar subscriptions, saving another 100 dinars to invite their granddaughter to college, a daughter who's married and lives in another city or another country, and now we're punishing them to pay 200 dinars, not talking. You know, Serbs as a people are very sensitive to justice, and even when it comes to social justice, they have special sensitivity. There was no social justice here, there was no fairness here, and it could have been done and that this money mass for payouts or pensions would remain the same and that those parameters in the budget, so that inflation would not be caused, remain the same (I am not an economic expert, but the Minister will, I believe, confirm this), only that this distribution would be something more just. Therefore, those who have 10,000 and less, and there are, as we heard from the previous pay phone, more than 200,000, to raise pensions, at least to about 12 or 13 thousand, although it's not some pension, we'll all agree, but to feel the government, to feel the National Assembly, to take care of those most endangered citizens. After that, let's go by that percentage of how who was paying into the pension fund. This is how you deceived people; for years they have lived badly and hard, perhaps they are used to it; perhaps they would not complain, but when false promises are made to them, and when they fail, believe that you make great opponents of them. It seems to me, if there's a social rebellion, the pensioners will be in charge. First they'll call those who promised them something, and here they didn't keep it. Now it's your turn, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12761	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I will be very brief, given that my colleague has explained our amendment before me. I have an obligation to ask the question again and I expect the question to be answered, and it is about farmers' pensions or the pensions of farmers, i.e. the government's debt on the fourth part of the debt that the government neither informs farmers nor pays. They're very interested, very sensitive to when they'll finally get their debt. The category of farmers counts with us over 250,000 people. These are the lowest pensions, and I can say they're really bloody and hard-earned pensions, they're about eight thousand dinars. This demeaning status of elderly farmers in society is something that we all need to be sensitive to; at least that the government makes an effort to make this debt very quickly, until it is completely devalued, replaces them. If we know that the travel costs of Serbia's first pensioner amounted to about five and a half million, that there was hearing in the budget that these costs were reduced, this category of our citizens could be helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12763	Thank you. The word is Mr. Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12764	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction that almost all MPs express their concern for pensioners and propose appropriate measures to improve the status of pensioners. However, I also have to say that many of these proposals actually have a tendency to break the pension system. Therefore, I must fully support Mr Krasic, who said that all the legal solutions we are making must be well analysed and comply with the law; all the proposals we make must satisfy the basic conditions of the existing law. It is certain that this law, which is now in force, is not favourable for pensioners, especially since this year, that pension coordination is only with the cost of living. That's where we're coming from, and we're up to our obligation to propose a new pension system law, which I believe will be at debate and adoption this year, but it's not enough to solve the pension system. I have to express my concern here. We current pensioners, who are in a difficult situation, at least most of the pensioners, will somehow survive, but I warn you that future pensioners, or your generation, who come, if nothing is done, will be in a difficult situation, especially if you have in mind that for contributions paid for pension and health benefits, a large number of employers report minimum earnings. So tomorrow, you'll put many people in a position to be social problems, even though de facto had pretty good salaries while they were actively working. When it comes to the proposals that were here, about raising pensions by 15, the lowest pensions, etc., I have to tell you that these proposals are the opposite system. You don't even know how you get into one trap yourself, so you're going to get pensioners who have lower pensions at one point to skip those pensioners who had bigger pensions than their colleagues. For example, to show it to you plastically, if the limit is 20,000 dinars, someone will get 10 percent, the other five percent; whoever has 20,000, if he gets 10 percent, he gets 2,000, and whoever has 20.001 dinars will get 5%, means 1,000 dinars, so whoever has 20,000 will have 21.001, and whoever has 20,000 will suddenly jump to 22,000. I suggest it's not a solution; we here have to make a distinction. There's a category of people who are socially endangered and that's a special problem that needs to be solved. The government must define what is the lower limit of social giving, which is the lowest pension. I totally agree that she needs to ensure one as-so-decent life as anyone who has a pension, regardless of the height of the internship she achieves. But we can't let a guy who's 10-15 years old have a bigger pension than a full-time job. It's a system and it's supposed to work that way and it has to work that way. So, I can understand your proposals, it's courtship to the pensioners, but I'm saying that we're going to make sure that the new laws and new systems we're going to propose in the next period so that every pensioner can live as modestly as possible from his pension. I again point out that there are changes in other laws that will have to provide the lives of future pensioners. I tell you, think of yourself, of your children. It's not enough here just to think about the current pensioners. It's just that I'm telling you that it's one big problem and nobody seems to think about it. You're going to retire tomorrow, or other citizens who have little income now, so they're going to be in an even worse situation. I'd be done with this. I just wanted to point out that I'm glad there are a lot of MPs who are proposing. I believe that these are well-intentioned proposals, regardless of some disagreements regarding the system and how pensions are coordinated and increased, but I have to express my satisfaction, and it is good that you are concerned about this category of citizens. Finally, I would like to ask the answer when the debt to the pensioners, because they are not just agricultural pensioners, will be fulfilled. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12765	There's a word Mr. Dusan Maric, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12766	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this issue is concerned, which is now on the agenda, I don't think it can be solved with one amendment, but it's a matter that needs to be resolved in a more systematic, serious way. I will use this opportunity and the PIO debate to draw attention to the problem of several hundred workers from the Great Plan who cannot achieve the right to retire. It is the workers of the construction company "Sveto Mladenovic", the textile confection "Percon", the furniture plant "Star", the catering company "Shumadi", the trade chain "Inex wholesale" and the combinations "October 10th". The companies used to operate very successfully and employ nearly 6,000 workers, however, during the last years, Milosevic's rule of the companies experienced a sunflower, so that during the DoS parties' reign, they would be completely destroyed, and workers forced into the street. Several hundred workers of these companies meet all the conditions laid down by law, age conditions and conditions in the matter of employment, to get full pension. The problem, however, is that the last few years have not made contributions to PIO. Speaking of "October 10th," I'll say a few words about him. For those who do not know, it is the meat industry, one of the oldest, largest and most successful not only in Serbia but also in the former Yugoslavia, which has been operating for over a hundred years. For so long, this meat industry was an engine of development not only of the Great Plane but of the surrounding municipalities. She hired more than 2,100 workers. The meat industry in the Great Plan began working in the 19th century, successfully survived both Balkan wars, World War I, World War II, Tito's nationalisation and Milosevic's criminalisation, but failed to survive DOS democracy. A lock was placed on the company, and workers were forced into the street to break down the thresholds of companies and trade shops in the Great Plan in a vain effort to find any job. Between 50 and 60 workers of the company have this problem -- they meet all of these conditions to get pensions, but they have a problem that no contributions to PIO have been paid in the last three years. A few days ago I spoke to one of them, it was Radisa Jovanovic, an honorary host from Novi Sela, who in combination, worked for the meat industry "October 10th" for 40 years, but now cannot exercise his full pension right. I mean, and that's the opinion and people from the profession that I've talked to, that there are all the conditions to restore production in the "October 10th" combination, to use the extraordinary potential for the development of livestock farming that exists in the Great Plan and the environment and to use one exceptional professional potential, given that more than 1,000 workers who worked in the Combinate are still in the best working force. Serbia's privatisation agency tried twice to privatise "October 10th", both times unsuccessfully. When a person looks at this privatisation-related documentation, it is difficult to take the impression that someone has purposely carried out the privatisation process with a view to failing to succeed, that the combination is destroyed, and that private enterprises, private slaughterhouses and small meat industries that have emerged in the Great Plane and the environment have virtually no competition. I ask the government to inform whether the government has any program regarding the fate of the "October 10th" combinations and to appeal to the government and to Minister Diana Dragutinovic that the government finds some solution to the problem that has these several hundred workers from the Great Plan, that in some way they are paid the money that is missing in the matter of pension insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12767	Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12768	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have spoken about the amendment, and I think there are a few things that have been heard and I don't think they stand. The one who does a serious analysis... And the DSS MPs have done a very serious analysis, and we've consulted the prominent experts who have confirmed that what we've done makes sense, there's an opportunity to perform. We're not going to fall into a trap. The trap could have been drawn for those who promised to retire at 70% of their personal income. Simply, it was clear in May 2008 that it could not be done. That trap was made, and it was just the ones who promised it. The Democratic Party of Serbia is not adding to anyone, it is implementing its programme and thus its MPs are speaking to the public here. So, just because we think that the pensioners of this moment are seriously damaged, that means we stand up for them. Secondly, pensioners and our parents, relatives, neighbors, do not belong to one group that has, in its name, a "retired" noun. We are concerned as citizens of Serbia, as MPs, as MPs of an opposition party that was in power and that hit the foundations of a country that should develop and move on. We are concerned because now the authorities have taken over those who are irresponsible, who share promises with their hands and hats, and when they need to be fulfilled they show basic ignorance and elemental insolence. Because to tell yourself that you're socially responsible, and then your pension to increase 9,000, and tell someone else that it went well that you got 900, that's what's not responsible for us. It just seems to me, don't read the numbers. In May 2008, at the moment of government creation, Vojislav Kostunica gave a very clear, accurate analysis of how the pension system could be developed, how much pensions could be increased. Responsibly done, fully respecting the reality in which the state is located, the ability to fill the budget and everything else. Turns out he's funny because he didn't satisfy your analysis. Analysis pleases everyone who is an economic expert and who watches numbers; those who do politics in the way you do it cannot satisfy it, because it is not a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12769	Mr. Markicevic, then Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12770	I promised to shorten the discussion, but because of my colleague Arsenovic and some of his inappropriate statements, I have to react. Mr Arsenovicu, as far as I understand the policy and functioning of the parties, I don't think any party has the exclusive and exclusive right to represent a particular layer of citizens. Believe me, there are many presidents of the New Serbia municipal boards who are pensioners, many members are pensioners, many citizens who are pensioners who voted for New Serbia. So I think it's a positive thing that we've been making some suggestions and reacting. Otherwise, if it were what you say, there are 1,600,000 pensioners, and your entire list, where you are minority partners, has 300,000 votes. Where are these 1,300,000 pensioners? They voted for other parties, and how they're going to vote for you in the next election, we're going to see how we represent them here. As far as I'm concerned, it's clear to me that you represent those pensioners who have over 50,000 pensions, otherwise you would agree with this amendment, which is human, fair and social responsibility, that first those who have five or six thousand pensions, we increase pensions to 12,000 dinars, and then we go on a percentage basis. What's so controversial about the human attitude, from the point of view of political honesty and all the promises we made together in the pre-election campaign, what's the disputed human? It's nothing controversial, but you have to honestly say, and it's perfectly legitimate and legal, to represent the richest layer of pensioners. I can tell you about Cacak, of those pensioners who went to the polls 70% voted for the NS, and for you -- God forbid it's 10%. They know well, and I hope there won't be so many next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12771	Mr. Konstantin Arsenović has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12772	I really didn't mean to offend anyone. If anyone feels that way, I apologize. However, the re-discussion really irritates me and I must say that I am appalled by the statements you later made. I supported all your efforts, as positive, to solve the pensioner's problem. However, I am now asking the DSS – you pensioners were not interested, what kind of lab are you talking about? I've been watching this lab, there's nothing on it, but you simply copied our data that we gave you. Don't throw dust in your eyes. You didn't want to talk about pensioners. Now all of a sudden, you've become conceits? Please, is zero more than 10%? It is not true, I must say, I do not claim that all pensioners voted, I would not like to say that all pensioners vote, save God, to be represented by 70-80 MPs here. It is normal for pensioners to vote in their own way for whoever they want, but we represent the interests of every pensioner regardless of which party they belong. We'll fight equally, I've claimed it, not who voted for it. It's the right thing for everyone, but I think we're gonna fight for every pensioner equally, no matter what party they belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12773	Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12774	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, we will never go beyond coming out here to continue to deceive the public. The facts say one thing, which is that in the election campaign, you promised that the pension amount would be 70% of the salary. Is that true? Yes, it is. What did you do for the pensioners? You did this, in the draft budget, one category of population, budget users, at the end of this year, will have fewer pensions in the amount of inflation, and we will see how much inflation there will be. If you're already committed to protecting a certain category of population, which I respect and which is noble, then you should have fought for it. You can't speak in the first person of the plural, when you say - we pensioners live hard. You do not live hard, they live, and you have betrayed their promises. We have here made a proposal and an amendment to increase pensions by 10% in the next period, that the largest group of pensioners, almost 50%, get a 5% increase and so redistribute, try to ease this burden of transition and financial crisis, that wave that awaits us, that we try to be solid and that those who are most vulnerable bear the least consequences. That's our proposal. You can agree with him or not. You say you agree here, but you're in the government. The question is, what are you doing in that government and what is Mr. Krkobic doing in that government? He betrayed all promises, kept quiet, stuck his head in the sand. Don't ever think about trying to abuse your position here and still deceive the public, because we'll always answer you. You are the most harshly deceived public and the most sensitive category of people who are now receiving 7,000 - 8,000 dinars. You promised them towers and cities, you didn't honor it. Then it's fair to go out and say – we couldn't do it in this government. You've entered this government, as far as I can tell, exclusively based on your programming definition and your pre-election promise. Not that you haven't fulfilled it, but you've added to your inaction and decision to agree to keep your mouth shut to endanger the pensioner standard. Then you come out here for a pay phone and you pose as the protectors of these pensioners and you allow yourself to attack the opposition. The fact that you're attacking the opposition is actually saying how you're trying to cover up your traces of inaction in this government. The question arises -- why did you enter that government, why are you still in that government? Obviously your interests exist, but you don't protect the interests of the pensioners and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12775	Thank you. Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, then Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12776	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for reporting for the right of replica, because Mr Arsenovic mentioned me as a previous speaker. What I said in my amendment, and what I said here, I was really trying not to hurt anyone, because I was speaking the language of numbers. What you are is a fact, the Democratic Party of Serbia addresses citizens of Serbia, it does not address those who love blue, those who walk the left side of the street, those who are old and those who love dogs and who do not like dogs, it addresses Serbian citizens. In pre-election campaigns, from the moment the party was formed, we also spoke to the pensioners. The way governments, both of them, Vojislav Kostunica treated this group of our citizens is actually one responsible way. The government has not offered them more than it can, nor has it promised them more than it can. What she did - pensions grew. They were small, they got them every 1st and 15th of a month, twice a month, they got them with increases that followed. They passed the Law of Consensation twice a year. Do you think that's small? It's not much for people who get it in a material amount, especially for a category that lives hard, the hardest it can, but it's awfully different from when they got a three-mark pension. Remember in the '90s, you should remember, because many of you have been in the leadership positions of the PIO Fund, you should know that data. I remember very well because my mother had a pension of three stamps, as an SDK official, and she couldn't buy any elemental stuff, let alone drugs. So now at least the pension gets regular, it's not high, but also how it can live. The point is that this country's policy must be responsible for this group of people. I understand what Mrs. Minister said in time, that we must help those who are the most vulnerable. The DSS MPs put up such an amendment, the most endangered had to be the ones we helped. It's really funny, even though it's a percentage small number of pensioners, to help your president whose pension is over 90,000, it's really funny that we help him and this way I say it in public. Don't call me, I don't want to talk like that. I want to tell the people and citizens of this country -- we are the responsible party that advocates all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12777	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Don't knock, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12778	Dear fellow citizens, I think this is one of the many reasons why I have avoided talking about this topic as something that we have not agreed on, counting on you to stop misusing an excuse that is called an unfulfilled promise to part of a coalition that was about increasing pensions. Seeing that you have no intention of using this as an excuse for the first and last time I will mention that on May 21st, in the cabinet of Slobodan Lalovic, Mrs Zora Simovic in front of the DSS, I, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, then in front of the Serbian Radical Party, and under the authority of Tomislav Nikolic, and Mr Mrkonjic, who was supposed to be present in front of your coalition, but spoke of certain obligations, discussed the draft that the ruling DSS had done at the time about the effects of an additional 20 billion donations for the July-December 2008 period. In Serbian language and language, the facts have been told, sources have been provided to increase pensions 10% since July, and let pensioners take their check out of the drawer, if they forgot when they received an increase of 10%, and from which funds are provided sources by December, with possible projections to see what to do with the 70% requirement. In that analysis, it is important to tell you, possible sources of additional funding for the PIO Fund were determined by the items from the budget that were not used, meaning, not for something more important, not to be abolished by children, but by the items - the NIP funds of four billion, of which only two billion dinars were spent by 20 April (planned by budget 34 and spent on two); we asked how much obligations under contracts were taken, that we knew how much free funds for orientation were made; we had at the division of 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development with Tourism, classification of 451, ski resorts (no one would mind taking the money from there)1,22 billion, and how much funds should the already be created deficit in the PIO Fund cover. So one summary analysis on four sides, with specific positions where to focus these funds. In addition, a sublimed analysis has been carried out at the ministry, where variations have stood since the increase and how much funding would be made. In addition, which was agreed by the DSS and then the SRS, I, under the authority of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, came up with an additional proposal to offer the current increase in pensions below 17,000 dinars and that increases are going down. For example, for those with below eight growth rates to be 40%, up to 10,000 to increase pensions 30%, 12,000 dinars -- an increase of 20%, and those with the highest pension of 14,000 dinars to get only 10%. We even agreed to the variant not to wait for the amendments to the law, but to go immediately to the application of such measures and to call it social aid. It's not about the other budget, other funds, other sources. It's about the fact that it was a good excuse for you to form a coalition that you made up. It's your decision and it's your business, but don't really tell the truth, because it's not honorable to us or to the citizens. Thank you. (At the time of the opening of the Parliament of the People's Parliament, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, SRS MPs banged into the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12779	Thank you. Madam Minister has a word. The Minister has an advantage over all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12780	I understand that the debate on amendments is over, so I would take this opportunity to maybe shorten the debate and answer some questions. I've heard most of the times that the promise was criticised, but in fact, the failure. So it's not the same to promise in one condition, and then execute under completely changed circumstances. I'd like to say that at the time of making a promise, the rate of economic growth was 7%. It was expected to be also 7%. In such conditions, the social product would be higher by at least 110 billion dinars, and when the social product is higher by 110 billion dinars, at this level of fiscal burden there would be additional revenues of 50 billion dinars. These additional revenues would allow for different costs. I'm not talking about Harry Potter today. Unfortunately, the figure of 7% of the social product for 2009, but I hope that from the second half of 2010, we will continue with the accelerated dynamics of economic growth. Please consider, however, that when the promises given the prospects of economic growth were brighter than when it was due to be carried out. Otherwise, the concept of what I proposed is on the line of these amendments, and the proposal was for those with the lowest pensions to increase significantly. That's when I was told, I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. That's how the system breaks down. It's possible that the system is broken, the only thing I have left unclear is whether we could, and that's something we could work on, increase the minimum pension to some level, which would mean different pension growth, depending on where anyone is, and then, of course, that the system still works. There are two concepts in the world. One concept respects pension insurance, respects the social dimension and believes that pension is some kind of social transfer. Whether I agree with that or not, there is such a concept. It determines the minimum pension and range between minimum and maximum pensions. There is another system where pensions are determined by paying your contributions. It doesn't matter what concept we choose, but all this says is that it's really time to change the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act. It is necessary to protect the poorest, whether they are pensioners or not. To answer one question about debt to pensioners – all debts, except for the last war, have been paid to farmers. Something was paid before the time, so workers will forgive the government for paying the war not in 2009 but in 2010. I want to thank you again for your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12781	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as head of the parliamentary group, gets his word before Mr Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12782	For the MPs of the Progressive Group, Serbia is inadmissible from this approach by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. It really doesn't make sense, ma'am, to tell us that you made promises at a certain point, and that today's moment doesn't oblige you because circumstances have changed. I'm sorry, Mrs Dragutinovic, if it wasn't for those promises, you wouldn't be a minister today. At least you should be embarrassed because your chair was earned on unfulfilled promises, I would say on lies, because at the time, when we were trying to build a pension increase project, when you were invited by the PUPS, so no one wanted to come, it knew that this increase couldn't be. He who is a good economic expert, who is honest and who tells Serbian citizens that he will pass next year, cannot make a coalition to which he will rule, but in Serbia can make a coalition one who ignores all facts and throws a promise into the wind. That promise was thrown into the wind. I can assume that you economic indicators can prove this year that this increase can't be, but you, as a kind of professor, knew that even when the government was put together, and then it was known that this would be an extremely difficult year. Or give up your profession. Almost every citizen in the world was aware of that. The problem is PUPS. I accept that there can be a political party that represents the interests of only certain groups, but when you cheat on that particular group, what remains to you as an ideology? Did you know, perhaps, what Mrs Dragutinovic now knows, that circumstances have changed and there is no money in the budget? Why, when the budget is higher in nominal terms than last year? Why, when the National Investment Plan is not used at all to earn new income, but to use it, we criticized you for changing benches in schools, making some exhibitions for your cameras, based on which you get elections, and you don't invest anywhere in production? Why wasn't this National Investment Plan used when those who got the money returned that money he went further, but went exclusively into consumption? Now it's just that there's no money and we haven't done anything. So, the Democratic Party took advantage of the PUPS, as used by the Socialist Party of Serbia whose representatives were not allowed to say -- we are not going to form a government with you, but they said -- not the PUPS. PUPS won't because there won't be an increase in pensions if we form a government with you. My dear gentlemen of the PUPS, there is no increase in pensions, although you have formed a different government. Are you able to learn from that? Are you able to bear the consequences of your conduct? Do not think that your years are not binding and that the people will forget you, because you will no longer engage in politics. You will deal with politics, God forbid, as much as the people will, but I'd like people to remember you, to remember what that group of people who promised pensioners anything and get to the ministerial chair. Madam President, I apologize for this exaggeration, but I'm warning you, next time I won't start speaking until you provide a normal atmosphere in an O.R. holding meetings of the National Assembly, even if it lasts for months. You will no longer have a session of the National Assembly if I, as a People's Messenger, come out for a pay phone and there is a noise here as if they were not messengers in the hall, but maniacs. (At the time of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12783	Mr. Obradovic. Since Mr Aligrudic is not here, the deputy head of the parliamentary group has the advantage again. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12784	I thank you, Madam President, for reporting as representative of the parliamentary group. Unfortunately, the Minister isn't here. We've been talking about this for a few months now, making promises lightly and changing the circumstances of those promises of change. We were able to know because the crisis began in the world last year, it lasted long at the beginning of this year, and at the time those promises were made, it was known that the crisis must also affect Serbia. Because when you're part of the world and good things are passed on to you, then all the bad things that happen in the world happen to us. How do we interpret promises and executions regarding the general collective agreement? That was only a month and a half ago. Did we know there was a global economic crisis at the time, or did it surprise us? What are we going to do about the Fiat, with one good investment, with a good firm that's supposed to come to Serbia? One minister says - it's all going according to plan; the President of the Republic with regret... As we regret to say, this investment is delayed until further notice, or at least for nine months. What are we going to do about the fact that on November 1st, we had a conviction from the finance minister that the revenues in the budget would be 650 billion? On the 20th of the night, when we adopted the budget, those revenues were 635 billion, and 31. The 12th revenue is only 620 billion. Are these changed circumstances, too? In two days' time, does the budget's revenue change for that much? Or is it easiest to make promises, and then to say that everything is wrong with what is done or for everything that is not done by objective circumstances and the global economic crisis? Is that the case with the pensioners? We commended the finance minister who had a great idea that pensions do not increase in percentages, but that the poorest pensioners have bigger increases, so that the burden of the crisis is equally distributed to all layers of pensioners. No, the finance minister says the PUPS leaders turned it down, according to the finance minister. Why didn't we accept some different model of increase, but we accepted that someone had an increase of 9,000 dinars and that someone had an increase of 450 dinars? Is that an evenly distributed crisis? The easiest thing to do is make promises, and then say opposition to the world's economic crisis, acid rains, I don't know what it's all about, because it's not realized. It won't get that far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12785	Thank you. Mr. Arsenović Constantine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12786	Madam President, I must express my dissatisfaction with the words that Mr Nikolic here has sent to the PUPS MPs here as a threat that we do not have the right to speak, at least that's how I understood it. Please, it's not fair, it's not fair, and I'm asking the chairman to respond to such exposure in the future. That's one thing. Secondly, gentlemen, you have passed this law on the pension system, which is called genocide. When such a law is passed, there is no force that can improve it overnight. You know about that saying, I'm not telling you again, that you expect now suddenly to make a turn in six months and solve all the problems that you have single-lawly caused, which is called genocide. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12787	I realized that it was said in a portable sense that it was not desirable to talk about something, which is also wrong. I ask the MPs to make suggestions by respecting each other. Mr. Vujadinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12788	Your Honor, I'm joining my colleague, Milic, I'm using her model, she called in the language of her digits. We really need to talk like that. I've already given this information once and I repeat it once more. The ratio of average pension and average earnings in Serbia has moved in the last eight years as follows: in 2001 - 75.6%, 2002 - 70.9%, 2003 - 68.2%, 2004 - 65.6%, 2005 - 65.6%, 2006 (!) - 53.1%, 2007 - 53.9% and 2008 about 60%. Gentlemen, we are a pension depression compared to the average profit of 2004, 2005, especially in 2006, when the growth rates of the gross domestic product were desired, from 6% to 7%. That difference has been made, and now it's really real, if we respect the language of the digits, that it can't reach overnight, and even if we have a projected rate of 7%. It's simple math. Two, I was one of those who suggested that pension coordination, since it was an extraordinary increase that was financed from the budget, be counter-proportional to the height, because it was co-financed, does not change systemically. If there were self-financing in PIO, that would be unrealistic, but since with 40% of the co-financed state, then it could go to vice-proportional. I also suggested, and our parliamentary group agrees, that in this year's new amendments to the law and possible corrections of the lowest pension increase, however, that there is a certain nominal increase, and that the highest levels are therefore compensated with the nominal reduction of the highest pensions. It's a model that can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12789	I thank you for your exact information. Mr. Lapčević has a word, please, and you have a replica if you want to give each other a place. He's got the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12790	I'm calling on the replica. Dear Mr. Arsenovic misread it. I think we've already cleared that up. So, I was really raised like that, to respect older people. I said it clearly last time, and I repeat it now, here, and we don't have to share in whether the MP is 18 or 78, we all have equal rights. I respect your age, but that doesn't mean I went out here and I told you not to talk, I just said we wouldn't let you continue to deceive the public, and I'm telling you again. So whenever you go out with the intention of continuing to deceive and make false promises and to cover up your own promises that you made in the pre-election campaign, we won't keep it quiet, because you're just making a mistake about the people who are the most threatened in this country. Based on their votes and pre-election delusions, you have entered this House. Not to forbid anyone, I absolutely have no right to do so, nor is it in accordance with my beliefs and training, not to forbid anyone from PUPS to come out, I call on everyone to come out. It's time for you all to come out here and tell us what you did for the target group you allegedly advocated in the election campaign. Let me repeat my respect for you once more, but your political program and your pre-election promise is in disrepute with what you're saying here. The minister herself has now come out and said that the economic circumstances have changed, that this pre-election promise has not been fulfilled and will not be fulfilled, but you, in addition to the fact that you deny it, are doing nothing at this time. Except for your silence and, apparently, you agree to just be in that government and have a vice president, Mr. Krkobic, you're actually not doing anything right now. In particular, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment where we are trying to redistribute the crisis, which is evident, which you, the ruling coalition, have long denied, more justly redistributed so that those most at risk get a higher percentage of the increase in the cost of those who still have solid pensions. So, once again I'm telling you and you take it seriously, it was your specific promise, we won't let you continue to deceive the public for this speaker, as well as other political parties that make up the ruling coalition, as regards their concrete pre-election promises, we'll also remind you that these promises have failed. That's what we've been doing through budget criticism, and that's what we've been doing through various bill proposals that we've proposed to get into the process. We will see how the ruling coalition will deal with the latest proposals to address the economic and financial crisis in our country proposed by the DSS parliamentary group. It is my impression that you and that you will refuse, and that after three months we will discuss these laws, but unfortunately, with a three-month delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12791	Mr. Nikolic, the word "we won't let you" might sound a little like a threat to you. It does cause replicas. I think we should bring this debate to an end, that's the deal, that's what citizens expect of us. I'm really asking you to bring an end to the vote and move on to the next point. Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12792	Thank you, Madam President. I'll see to it that I'm as short as possible, but it's so sensitive to the subject and matter that we can't go over any obvious facts. So, I know it's uncomfortable when you make such a big promise, which is made by the government of a country, and then you make excuses for not keeping your promises. It's really embarrassing, and it's embarrassing when someone reminds you of it and calls you. But what to do is politics is such a job that you have to deal with unpleasant things as well. I really don't understand how you can justify not fulfilling that pre-election promise and freezing pensions in 2009 and that as a great success you're talking about what pensions are once increased in October 10%, but that's why they'll stay at that level throughout 2009. You know that by law twice a year, pension growth is regularly coordinated with low-priced prices, which is certainly a bigger increase than those one-time 10%. Take it and recalculate it. Another thing, not to mention how much pensions were worth in 2008, with a euro of 76 dinars and the prices that were at that time, and how much these same pensions are worth today, increased by 10%. Where is the increase in the price of Telecom services, where is the increase in utility prices, where is the rise in prices on small basic products of life, heating, gas? All of this has been eaten long ago, and today the euro is 94 - 95 dinars. Far less valuable are those pensions that were 10% higher than they were in 2008. It has become the manner of the entire ruling coalition, unfortunately, looks like you and your political parties have an excuse for everything. For all that was the basic pre-election promises of the entire government, you now have an excuse in the global economic crisis. Tadic is also an excuse for "Fiat", and for new jobs, i.e. for losing existing jobs, and for a collective contract, i.e. an increase in profits under the collective contract and his disrespect and lack of pensions, for all this is an excuse for the global economic crisis. The same Mr. Tadic, in November, when the global economic crisis rocked the world, and in Serbia he felt very strongly, told students in Zajecar that this global economic crisis for Serbia was a chance, and the day before, he said, "This with Fiat is not real, we have to tell people the truth that what we talked about six months ago was not true, it was an election campaign, so we needed their votes." (President: Time. ) You can't go public, you can't talk about everything in campaigns, you can't be completely undosed, and when you get stuck in a chair, then the new circumstances, turkey dots don't apply. It can't do that. Serbian citizens are not people who deserve to be manipulated in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12793	You've been out of line for almost a minute, and maybe it's not bad for us to think a little bit about our own conscience, not just being a conscience to others. Mr. Djuro Peric again, then Mr. Colakovic. I'm really asking you to bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12794	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the pensioners, it's very difficult for me to dispute when it comes to such proposals. It wouldn't be a problem if they were built in one way, in terms of what pensions and pension and disability insurance mean, but they go with some social categories; if someone had come out with some social policy law, etc., then all this could be drinking water. But this kind of violation of a system that's already on the verge of collapse... I must say, Mr. Zoran Krasic said that it started in 2003, and it started much earlier in 1994 – we, the Pensioners' Union, when it wasn't PUPS, knocked down the government's regulation of Mirko Marjanović because it was a 20% pension cut, and we recovered it in the Constitutional Court. That's the so-called. A big debt. You're criticizing us for big promises. I have to tell you, I'm sorry, I'm one of the participants and I had great hope in Mr. Kostunica, I was in charge of the Alliance of Pensioners to contact. There is Mr. Rade Obradovic who knows it well. I've done a lot of work with all the vice presidents back then. The promises at the time were something completely different, which did not come true. When Vojislav Kostunica's party came to power, I was in the Alliance of Pensioners delegation when he promised us he would accept those proposals, which were then modest, though, at that time there was 65% of that harmonisation and what else was going by the law. He promised it was not done, but a law was passed, whose creator is Mr. Slobodan Lalovic, the then minister, who, otherwise, came from the party, which led to this. My colleague is now talking about some sort of adjustment with the profits and the cost of living. She's stopped making money, she's just costing her life. As for what's said about those 10%, here's concrete data. If we hadn't increased this pension by 10%, only then would we be in a difficult situation, because by the end of 2009, the average pension is 21,711 dinars. If it hadn't been for that increase, and it was said that it shouldn't have increased by that 10%, then even according to those increases that could go according to the law, which are the cost of living, we would have an average pension in this year of 20,421 dinar. This means that for 1,290 dinars, there will be a higher pension after this coordination, than that it remains to be aligned with only those cost of life, because when it comes to costing lives, it is three or four percent, and this is a much higher amount. (President: Time. I'm sorry, let me finish. Therefore, when we talk about these things, we have also prepared laws that will solve the problem of this social dimension, but that is something else entirely, it can be said and then everything can be proposed. Secondly, I'm going to end with this, I have to say that in these lowest pensions that have 404,000 pensioners in all categories one third of these pensioners are not socially endangered, regardless of their pensions are small, because they have other incomes. That should be taken into account, because when you increase it linearly, what you're saying about those lowest categories, then it comes to disrupting the entire system. Therefore, I ask you to speak in a way that corresponds to true truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12795	Thank you. Mr. Momo Colakovic, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12796	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, I accept the president's suggestion that we conclude this debate on this law and allow the meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups. On this point, I must repeat what Mr Arsenovic said, that we support Mr Krasic's discussions and suggestions, Mrs Tabakovic, Mrs Vojic. We don't mind it, but in the pension insurance system, as it is now, it can't be introduced. Our proposal regarding the budget was to form a fund not only for pensioners but also for all vulnerable citizens of Serbia, which will ease the crisis that will arise. I think we can fit that into that system. In the pension system, be assured, it can't. For example, we've been testing the proposals that all the parties have made here and they're correct, but they can't get into the system. That is why we think it would be good, as the minister suggested, to form a special fund for socially endangered citizens of Serbia, where pensioners are also. Secondly, we must insist that if the financial situation in Serbia is considered after three or six months, debt to farmers will be paid off. The third thing that is very important – the status of military pensioners must be resolved. They were in the military defense system, they're not anywhere now, they're out, and they're not even in the fund. It's a very important question for 60,000-70,000 military pensioners. The PIO bill that was prepared, and last time I talked about it, it has to put into order what we talked about here and try to correct the mistakes that were in the past. I call on all political parties to help us here. A special thing where we all agreed, and we look at it differently and we accuse each other, it's a reform of the pension and disability system; it can't be over in a year. We have to make an effort here to correct all the mistakes we've had and what we're making right now. Please, in that sense, let's work and talk about the present and the future, not talk about the 1990s, 2000s, etc. And who's to blame for. We won't make it better for the pensioners and citizens of Serbia if we accuse ourselves of who did something yesterday, the day before, or, I don't know, 20 years ago. In that sense, I invite you to think about it. What I can say from this pay phone is that it is very important to ensure that Mrs. Vojic spoke of it as a regular pension payment. I'm convinced, based on the budget we adopted, that's how it's gonna be. Second, that pension level now... We're falling for one mistake here, I must warn you. Many here say there will be Serbia's collapse, everything that is now being done and done will not be enough for us to emerge from this crisis. Then how can we expect it to be an increase in pensions or wages, or I don't know what? It's important to us, and this is a protection mechanism that needs to ensure that pension levels don't fall down. In that sense, I must say that, based on these promises, which we and other parties have both received at least pension votes; all other parties have received much more votes, also on promises. Please and I suggest, President, that we bring an end to the discussion and move on to the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12797	I thank you for the proposal, which I have long supported. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12798	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must apologize to you, Madam President, for using my right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. One, I'd like to thank you for your preconceivedness and professional appointment, each time, of the Industry Committee, where we could all topics related to the oil-gas agreement, the mediators, etc. to the gas crisis, to process. You called last week, we agreed, both the prime minister and all four vice presidents, and of course, they didn't have time to come to the Industry Committee. Those who came, such as the Minister of Energy and the director of "Srbigas", had to go to a meeting where, as a matter of fact, they would promote what the Liberal Democratic Party proposed ten days ago, which is to invest money in the Banatski Dvor, i.e. to provide funds and cover the Committee, which today was supposed to be, for industry. The two representatives of the government have used more than three-quarters of the time to explain to us that Serbia is the country that best reacted in this gas crisis, that they are all guilty, and we who have asked questions, and the citizens to whom it is cold and the economy that could not work, it is only none of those who run this country, who care about energy and gas supply. We haven't heard a single word about how the damage caused by Serbia's lack of gas reserves will be compensated by the economy and citizens within an hour. We heard there was one measure that had already entered the procedure in the government, which is to raise the price of gas again. That's where we agreed with Minister and Director of Srbigas that he would eventually pay all the citizens. It can't do that. The state must, although we have heard from them that there is no money to cover this damage, to bear responsibility. Those responsible for energy security, for supplying gas to citizens and businesses, must bear responsibility. You can't raise the price of gas again. Is that economically justified? I don't know. I know citizens won't last this 20%. Also announced is 20% electricity collection. He can do anything. There's no words of responsibility, no one here is responsible, and the only solution to the gas crisis that was, it's that the gas price jumps 20%... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I think it's disastrous. Thank you. I'm done. Once again, I wanted to thank you for your willingness to invite those most responsible in this country, but I must inform the public that neither they have appeared, nor has any MP group, except LDP, asked one single question, except for the Democratic Party's representatives who tried to turn the story in the tenth direction so as not to talk about what was the subject of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-21-0.u12799	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, January 21st, 2009, starting at 5:30 p.m. as a voting day. Please, just let me let you know. Obviously, we can't start the session today that I scheduled for 2:00 p.m. She'll start tomorrow at 10:00. I thank you for your cooperation, and I expect you all to participate in the vote. [[After break – 17.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CARY TARIFI LAW As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in principle. For 126, against one, he did not vote 31, out of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 4. The draft law, since it was adopted on behalf of the Government by a representative of the proposings during the examination of the draft law in particular, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic and MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 123, they did not vote 22, out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 126, five of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, four of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 124, four of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 125, one of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in general. For 126, against 19, it did not vote 25, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. For 126, against 23, it did not vote 16 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, I remind you that MP Gordana Pop-Lazic withdrew the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 125, 17 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, three of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 2 by a new member, was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 125, two of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 2, by a new member of 2a, was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, two of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 126, four of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MPs Dejan Mirovic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 205 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 125, three of the 205 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 126, three of the 205 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 18, by a new member of 18a, was submitted by MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 125, it did not vote seven out of 205 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 205 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of the Article. One, two, three, four, 16 and 17. It's a bill of law. I remind you he's a 25. The draft law shall be submitted by the Government to the reverse fact of the order of the Member State. One, two, three, four, 16 and 17. It's a bill of law. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, decide in particular whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Article. 1, 2, 3, 4, 16 and 17, as proposed by Article 25. It's a bill of law. For 126, against 16, of a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of the article. One, two, three, four, 16 and 17, bill. After we have completed our decision by amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. For 127, against 24, 16 of the 167 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCUSES LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, in principle. For 128, against 14, they did not vote 24, out of 166 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 127, two of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Đuric, Milos Radulovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 3rd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 126, one of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 127, three of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 124, six of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, nine of the 206 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, v. 127, of a total of 205 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 126, of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, two of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 126, four of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milutin Jelic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 126, one of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 125, they did not vote four out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 106, against 95, there were no abstentions, there were no six votes, of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 125, three of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against 96, a abstentioned one, were not voted by three, of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, three of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, they did not vote four out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Ruzic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 96, abstentioned 18, seven of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 94, with 16 abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 99, with five abstentions, did not vote 16 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 97, abstentioned 11, he did not vote 21 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Kasalovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 29a be added after article 29. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 111, the abstention of four, was not voted 25 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in general. For 127, against 23, they did not vote 22, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in principle. For 127, against 14, 17 of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 125, they did not vote four out of the 205 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 127, three of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, five of the 205 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 205 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, one of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, five of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 126, abstentioned 15, five of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 124, six of the 207 ambassadors attended did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, two of the 207 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, two of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, three of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, five of the 206 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, eight of the 205 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, two of the 204 ambassadors were not present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 125, 17 of the present 204 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, three of the 204 ambassadors were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 204 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment in particular during the review of the draft law. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, a abstentioned one, three were not voted by 204 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, 14 of the 205 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, out of 204 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 124, three of the 205 ambassadors were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 144 of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 127, three of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 124, it did not vote eight out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, headings 13, 14 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 125, three of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, headings 20 and 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 127, two of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, heading 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment in particular during the review of the draft law. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 25, Section A, heading 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 125, three of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, headings 29, 31, 32, 34, 35 and 36, MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, of a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, heading 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, section A, heading 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 126, four of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, Section A, heading 78, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, two of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, five of the 205 MPs did not vote against 124. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, two of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 123, four of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was tabled by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, one of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. For 127, against 37, there were no three votes, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION FROM THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZEN TYPES OF RECOMMENDATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, in principle. For 125, it did not vote 39, a total of 164 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision by amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 127, two of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 127, one of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions which provide for a feedback, the National Assembly specifically decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. For 127, against 17, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income tax of citizens of certain types of income, in general. For 127, 17 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a law on temporary exemption from taxation on the income of citizens of certain types of income. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on APPLICATION FOR Obligatory Social Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Proposal for this Law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. For 127, it did not vote 18 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 141, 10 of the 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, five of the 205 MPs did not vote against 123. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, three of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 144, two of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. For 127, it did not vote 47 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the proposal for this law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. For 126, against nine, abstentioned one, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, five of the 205 MPs did not vote against 124. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, one of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. I remind you it's Article 3. The draft law shall be submitted by the Government to the reverse fact of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions which provide for a return fact when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall in particular decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. For 126, against 36, four of the 166 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. For 127, against 15, he did not vote 21 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 2009 session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll continue our work on the agenda for the next session tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. I thank you for your cooperation, and I congratulate you on your successful work today to all of us.
