ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28937	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 103 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Nikola Lazic, Zoran Bortic, Moma Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Aleksandra Jankovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the presence of Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice, to the representatives of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a joint principled review of the 7th and 8th points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the secrecy of data and amending the laws on the free access to information from public meaning (continuation) yesterday's work was completed by the presentation of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. I am notifying the National Assembly that an authorised representative for the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia National MP Jelena Trivan and asking if any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word because he is entitled to this part of the session on the basis of the Rules of Procedure's provisions on the course of the session? If anyone wants to, please sign up for an electronic voting system. No, I don't. ) If none of the presidents or authorised representatives want a word, then I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, the New Serbia MP Group, the MEP Group for European Serbia, the Prosperity Group Serbia, the DSS Parliamentary Group and the SRS Group. We move to the debate, and according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and the Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the free access of information of public importance, the first to be declared is MP Djordje Milicevic, and after that, MP Aleksandra Jankovic. I ask MP Gjorge Milicevic to sign up. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28938	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on the Secrecy of Information, essentially looking at what was said during yesterday's debate, must be one of the very important laws that are missing in our legal system. It's true that this area is completely unregulated. At present, therefore, as we could hear, there are about four hundred acts that regulate the issue of secrecy and, of course, that putting a code of secrecy completely meaningless. Of course, it is not commendable that Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe where this matter and the area are not regulated by one law. When it comes to key laws of special and exceptional importance, such as the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data, it is very important to hold a broad public debate and to consider and consider suggestions and suggestions from the professional public and independent institutions. It is not good that at the stage of this legislative proposal, a negative odym has been created in public. The negative otium is primarily the result of a sharp discussion not only among NGOs, but also among those who wrote law and control authorities. Of course, we fully agree that not only this law, but all laws that are under consideration and adopted by the Republic's parliament must comply with the standards of the Council of Europe and the EU directives, bearing in mind the goal of Serbia becoming a member and part of the EU. We do not want to believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal wants to create additional problems when it comes to regulating this area, i.e. that an illusory picture is being created, following the adoption of this legislative proposal, that this area is allegedly regulated. We really want to believe the most important objective of the proposed law, which is very precisely defined in the legal explanation, which is to prescribe criteria in one law on the basis of which foreign and domestic data of interest to the Republic of Serbia will be defined as secrets, to define authorised persons for the determination of the confidentiality of data and to lay down in a uniform manner the rules for determining the degree of secrecy, as well as to specify precisely the deadlines and conditions of the termination of the confidentiality of data. During the drafting of this legislative proposal, the most dust has been raised to limit access to classified information to the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Free Access to Information of Public Matter. It is a member of the 40th where restrictions on access to information are laid down. So, it's not the general restriction, it's the tax-related cases. Simply, the President of the Republic doesn't have access to all the information. However, we would like to express our satisfaction with the agreement and agreement reached on the views of the independent authorities, in the sense that the existing proposal removes restrictions relating to access to information marked as "confidential", i.e. that, as far as we can understand it, the amendments provide for the availability of public data to all state authorities, of course, and when it comes to the Commissioner for Public Information, the Ombudsman, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and, among other things, as set out in the proposed amendments to the Government, the Governor of the National Bank. One of the proposed changes is that in a particular type of data, all institutions will have the right to access in an identical manner. The proposal is to uniformly regulate the right to certification. This is a document which grants certain persons access to data and in order to carry out their tasks under their jurisdiction. A circle of persons entitled to a certificate has been extended. It is also prescribed by the amendment that persons appointed in the proposal in Article 38 have the right to access certain data marked as ‘state secret’ and ‘extremely confidential’, with a previous appropriate security check. If someone's request for access to information is denied, judicial protection is provided in the sense that a party interested in obtaining information can lodge a complaint with the Justice Ministry, and an administrative dispute may be brought against the Justice Ministry's decision. The proposed amendments also set out the control of the work of the Security Service. The Ministry shall have the power to control the application of the law, to verify whether the services have established a ‘confidential’ mark and, after that control, the Ministry may issue an order to remove the mark. As has been said during yesterday's debate, four degrees of secrecy, as well as four deadlines for the confidentiality of the data, have been specified, according to the level of secrecy, between two and 30 years. What I also want to say is that the Ministry of Justice is reporting to the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security. It is also possible to remove from certain documents a code of secrecy in the event of certain events which cease the reasons for the existence of secrecy, which relate to a particular event. So we really want to believe that after the proposed amendments by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the moment when the Republic's parliament in the voting day declares yes and positive on the proposed amendments, we will have one quality law, which will fully regulate this area. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, I would first like to say that by applying this law, good results have been achieved, but that practice has shown that a number of norms are inaccurate and difficult to apply. Some new issues are raised, as well as new situations that need to be regulated and regulated legally. The proposed changes provide for the supervision of implementation to be taken over by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which will certainly contribute to a better and more efficient application of the law itself, which is very good. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has an inspection that controls law enforcement. The newspapers, for example, are that the process of implementing the trustee's solution will be, according to the proposal, the government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation, which is extremely important. It is proposed to replace the word "now", when it comes to delivering information, with "at the latest within seven days". Finally, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support another legislative proposal in the voting day, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28939	Seven minutes and forty seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28940	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part in the principle debate on the adoption of two laws, and this is the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance. The very fact that we are taking part in a principled debate means that we are determined by whether these laws should be passed. In principle, we determine ourselves according to the basic things that are mentioned in the very proposals of the law. In any case, I expect that all those who are in favour of in principle supporting the adoption of such laws will be actively involved in the second part of the work, in proposing amendments, because I think it is without substance to propose amendments if we are against the law in principle. The ZES parliamentary group supports the adoption of both laws. The basis for the adoption of both laws is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the basis for the adoption of such laws is Articles 51 and 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think we can all conclude that there are a whole series of positive effects in practice in the current period of application of the Law on Free Access to Public Information. The fact is that many of us have come forward in the fight to pass such a law and to clearly define how citizens can be able to access the requested information in a faster and simpler way. The fact is, over this period of four years, opportunities have been observed to amend the law. In any case, it should be said that certain provisions have been specified in order to more effectively implement a law that has also contributed to the control of the work of the state administration and to the repression of corruption in the past. This, for example, determines the behaviour of the first-degree body when part of the requested document, i.e. information, is to be protected, such as certain personal data. It is then defined whether an administrative act is to be adopted or to be followed upon request when approved, to adopt a request for specific information. Certain, not clear and precise, provisions of the law are fixed, clarified. The deadlines for the conduct of the first-degree body under the law are specified: in the event of the adoption of the request, no later than seven days from the date of receipt of the request; in the case where a solution is adopted, it shall not satisfy the request, no later than 15 days from the date of receipt of the request. What has not been possible so far has been made possible – to provide the applicant with information in the form requested by the applicant, if there are certain technical options of the Authority. In any case, if something can be delivered in electronic form, it is faster and more economical than it has been under the current, applicable law, without these changes, when it was possible only in the form in which there is a particular document. Certain things have been specified regarding the possibility of making an appeal and in other justified situations which have not been taxed. This is something that meets the needs expressed in practice so far. The authority of the trustees has been specified, the possibility of a administrative dispute being launched. What is interesting is that, instead of the term ‘rule of the Authority’, in the proposed amendments, the term ‘responsible person of the Authority’ is used and thus is in line with the applicable Law on Infringements. The supervision of law enforcement was then defined to be carried out by the ministry responsible for the administration's affairs, and not, as a valid solution, by the Ministry of Information Affairs. Then, the criminal liability of the authorised person was transferred to the responsible person in the public authority. Instead of the responsibility of the authorised person in the national authority, the responsibility of the responsible person in the state authority, the persons managed by the authorities, shall be assumed. In any case, I have tried to make the most important amendments to the amendment bill and amendments to the Free Access Act of Public Matters. There will be an opportunity to discuss this in detail. I think it's a good thing that so far, a good law on free access to information of public importance, in whose adoption we were protagonists, continues to improve. I think every law that's living matter needs to be fixed in the time that's coming. Now I'd like to look back, with a few words, on the proposal for a confidentiality law. The basis for this is found in Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is, in the current period of development of our country, we haven't had in this unique way defined this matter. Much has been declared a state, official or military secret for ten years. The fact is that over 400 sublegal acts regulate this matter, so few who can find their way into the galamatium of various regulations. I believe that the time has finally come and I welcome the great effort of the Justice Ministry that the Ministry has finally come out, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a bill like this. The fact is that this substance is systematised in a law which, apart from the basic and final provisions, clearly defines the identification of the classified information itself, then the measures of protection of classified information; it defines access to classified information, the procedure for granting approval, or the authorisation to know certain classified information and the control and supervision is defined, as well as the criminal provisions relating to this matter. The fact is that in one place we can see exactly what is considered a secret information and what information can be identified as secrets. The secret information is that of interest to the Republic of Serbia, whose unauthorized person would be damaged if the need for protection of the interests of the Republic of Serbia is more difficult than the interest in free access to information of public importance. These data specifically refer to: national security of the Republic of Serbia, public security, that is to defence, foreign policy, security and intelligence affairs of public authorities; then to the relations of the Republic of Serbia with other countries, international organisations and other international entities; systems, devices, projects, plans and structures; scientific, research, technological, economic and financial affairs related to the previous. In terms of the degree of secrecy, this law defined four degrees of secrecy, and that is: data treated as a state secret in order to prevent irrevocably serious damage to the interests of the Republic of Serbia; then, data classified as strictly confidential in order to prevent serious damage to the interests of the Republic of Serbia; data classified as confidential in order to prevent damage to the interests of the Republic of Serbia; "internally" – to prevent harm to the work, i.e. to carry out tasks and tasks of the public authorities that determine them. The draft law defines a time limit on the duration of the confidentiality of data. The confidentiality of the data, under this proposal of the law, ceases with the date set out in the document containing the secret information; the occurrence of an event specified in the document containing the classified information; the expiry of the deadline, where it is precisely defined that the ‘state secret’ period of 30 years for the information classified as ‘secret confidential’ 15, for the information marked ‘confidential’ for five years and for the information marked ‘internal’ two years. In addition, it is defined when a recall of secrecy can occur and normally, if the information is made available to the public, that this is the final case of a time limit on the confidentiality of data. As regards the measure of protection of classified data, a whole series of measures has been clearly defined, in which way the state should protect its interests. It is also clearly defined by the authorisation procedure itself, i.e. the authorisation of certain persons and certain institutions with regard to access to classified information. The procedure and the security verification system itself has been defined, so it's not decided by someone we don't know in which way it determines or doesn't determine, it's clearly a numbered law and it's defined procedure. Three types of security checks have also been defined: basic security checks, full security checks and special security checks, all depending on the importance of the data marked by a certain degree of secrecy. In any case, this law does not in any way harm anyone in the Republic of Serbia, but uses the preservation of national security, benefits the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia, and defines one thing in Article 3 that has not been defined so far. In Article 3. The draft law is clear and categorically written which information is not considered classified. The disclosure of any information by secret information, if it is directed towards avoiding criminal liability, cannot be considered justified, as Article 3 directly states: “Secret information which has been designated as a secret is not considered to be a secret in order to conceal a criminal offence, to exceed the powers or abuse of official office or other illegal act or to act as public authorities. ” So, in a direct, clear and unequivocal way, this state has stood up against crime, against all those who are trying to through alleged national interests, by firstly highlighting some alleged national security, to resort to a violation of the law. It's clearly defined in the law what it can be, what it needs to be, what really is a secret information, how the state needs to protect the secrecy of the data and how they abuse... And we were aware that for dozens of years there were attempts to cover up certain negative phenomena by marking any document as secret. In any case, I believe that all those who have actively taken part in proposing amendments to this bill, who have made every effort and effort to advance this good bill in the voting day will in principle support the adoption of such a law. However, I call on all those who propose a certain improvement or correction of this bill, and possibly not a certain amendment, to support both one and another bill in the voting day, because I believe they contribute to all of us and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28941	Thank you. Sixteen minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. After him, the word has Michailo Puric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28942	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the applicable law on the availability of information of public importance will, unfortunately, be just another one in a series of laws that have generally not been applied. For what reason? The attempt of journalists, NGOs or citizens to obtain information based on the Law often comes upon the wall of silence by public authorities holders, and even on the outs of the impatience of some officials, ministers, to bring this down to the level of local self-government, certainly also the president of municipalities, mayors of municipal administrations, etc. Certainly, the greatest ignorance and necessity is that the Law on free access to information is also related to the information that they have, or all those bodies that I have listed, or even many more carriers, especially local authorities, but also their reluctance to such a law. It is not the only job of the government, or the Assembly, to pass a certain legal act and to end it, but to take care of their implementation, and that is what this one has failed most. Voting two, three or four hundred laws annually does not make one government successful, but rather taking care of the proper, adequate application of those laws. I am sorry that we passed a law, or passed a parliament in a previous assembly, and this law, the law on the availability of information of public importance, has not been implemented properly. Now we have amendments and additions to that law. I'm afraid it will end up, that the situation will remain as it was, unchanged. Freedom of access to information of public importance and the Law on free access to information of public importance is one of the important indicators of the democratisation of society and the precondition for the achievement of other human rights, such as freedom of the media, freedom of opinion and the right to participate in public affairs. Free access to information is also an effective means of monitoring the work of public authorities and means of raising the level of their responsibility to citizens. The media of free access to information of public importance also encourages greater participation of citizens in political processes and establishes a significant mechanism to combat corruption. I believe you agree with this. I'm sorry you didn't do the job properly. Raising the level of public in the work of authorities is a direct positive co-ordination with quality results in the fight against corruption. Moreover, freedom of access to information also implies much more than the obligation of the authorities to properly address requests for access to information, and in particular on public money, which means the obligation of the authorities to make as much information available as possible, or to publicly publish them without waiting for any of the citizens, journalists to ask for it. From this non-applicable law, we come to a law on amendments and additions to the same law, which would be more than welcome if it were not more problematic and worse than the applicable law itself. Part of this law is, to be clear, very good. It may not be characteristic for opposition MPs to at least part of the law praise, but part of the law is good, unlike some members of the law that instead of providing and strengthening the right to free access to information, it reduces and restricts it. I think there's an even more drastic example in the confidentiality law, but I'll talk about him a little later. What bothers me most about this government is the persistent ignoring of the citizens' initiative. I suppose you know what I mean, and if you don't know, let me remind you: as the public knows, in 2007, the Working Group of the Coalition for Free Access to Information, which was made up of representatives of the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, the Committee of Human Rights and the Offices of the Commissioner for Free Access to Information, made up the text of the future draft law, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Information. After that, as you know, and I believe that most MPs know this and know when this bill arrived in the process, that is, when it was handed over to the National Assembly, NGOs, citizens' initiatives, etc. They have collected 35,870 citizens' signatures in favour of this law and thus formally launched a citizens' initiative to adopt the Amendments and Supplements Act on Free Access to Information. Unfortunately, to this day this legitimate bill has not found its place on the agenda of the session, although the congregation had an obligation to do so. On the other hand, instead of this citizens' proposal that arrived in 2007, we waited three years for this law on amendments and additions to the law, to get a proposal from your ministry, Mrs. Minister, which differs in some 10%, perhaps from the law passed by a group of citizens, or a civil initiative. This parliament was, in any case, under the obligation to consider what arrived in 2007, and not to prescribe a good part of that law, and anything that doesn't suit you to change how it suits you. As far as the confidentiality law is concerned, I'll look back on it. It is one of the key laws missing in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. He was also supposed to be adopted long ago. Unfortunately, it's not. This law should provide for the organisation of a single system of determining and protecting classified information that is of interest to Serbia's national and public security. Unfortunately, this law is necessary, but so is he. He's even worse than this law on amendments and additions to the law. It must first be harmonised with other legal acts, and above all with the highest legal act i.e. With the constitution, so that we do not come to a situation where certain provisions of this law violate Serbia's entire legal system. The key problems of this law, which cause the most controversy, are related to the shortcomings and inconsistencies that are evident in this bill. Some of the provisions of this law lower the institutional level of protection of human rights. Also, the proposed monitoring mechanism for the application of the law is not an adequate solution because the National Security Council is not a state body, but represents a government expert service, which should not be supervised. Unfortunately, the bill extends and strengthens the powers of the executive authority at the expense of the legislative and judicial authorities, as well as the supervision of independent state institutions and restricts their access to classified information, which in fact narrows their, I think, constitutional role. When I said independent state institutions, I meant the Guardian of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information. To make trouble bigger, it is a tendency to restore a state-of-the-art concept of security, which will give a conscious or unconscious concentration of power in the hands of a smaller number of people, which is not good, because I think this law gives the executive authority more powers than it should and than it should in some democratically organised states than the state of Serbia. The Data Securitisation Act introduces an authorisation for access to and use of classified information. In doing so, it exempts from the law of a particular institution, such as the State Auditing Institution, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which by law has the power to access confidential information from their jurisdiction. While I am already with the Anti-Corruption Agency, the disputed solution relating to the Anti-Corruption Agency is one that violates the principle of division of the authorities and the relationship between state authorities and different authorities, thereby making it particularly difficult or even disabling the achievement of the tasks of control anti-corruption authorities which are educated as independent and independent state bodies. The proposal for a code on classified information which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent to the National Assembly for adoption is taking away the partially existing authority of the Citizens' Protector or, as it is popularly called, the Ombudsman and the Trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data to access all data uninterrupted and to institutions whether public services and civil servants violate guaranteed human rights and freedoms, i.e. work properly and legally. The most obvious example would be two members of this law, Article 38. The draft law making it difficult for independent control bodies, the Citizens' Protector and the Public Information Trustee to function and exercise competence because access to classified information is made possible with the approval of the competent authority. The Agency for the fight against corruption, the Public Procurement Administration and the State Auditing Institution shall not be covered by this provision at all, and shall not be given the possibility to access classified information by the competent authority with the approval of the competent authority. If we go from the principle that this law implies that anyone who performs government affairs has the right to know the secret information that is within his jurisdiction, and that should certainly be one of the basic reasons for the existence of this law, we also get to that 40th article that I mentioned earlier, which makes an exception to this principle. This article limits the access to classified information to the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for access to information of public importance and protection of personal data. This provision does not comply with the laws governing the jurisdiction of independent state institutions, as well as the Constitution of the RS as the highest legal act. Such solutions in the law are in direct contrast to the solution contained in Article 25. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which states that at the request of the Anti-Corruption Agency, all documents and information necessary to carry out the tasks of the Anti-Corruption Agency are to be delivered. Delivery of data, documents and information is not subject to a degree of secrecy or any other classification. According to the applicable Law on free access to information of public importance, the Commissioner for Public Information shall have the right to insight into any document, any medium of information, without restriction. This authority of the Commissioner is necessary for him to perform his duties, and it should not, in law, be subject to anyone's consent, whether someone will give him committees or not. In practice so far, no one has questioned such a thing, and I believe that after the adoption of this law, it will be very problematic. Or maybe you think the trustee has too much to do, so you decided to make it easier for him, because a man may not have enough space, enough people to do his job properly, so you're going to give him information to make his job easier? Under this bill, the Commissioner no longer has access to any single document bearing a confidentiality mark. Instead, he has the right to approve, whatever that means. We know that this right of approval has been used in Serbia so far, which I consider to be very controversial and which, in certain cases, could be denied. I believe, based on some earlier examples, that the officials will benefit greatly. Not just officials, but agencies, etc. To remind you of what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 20(2), which guarantees that the level of human rights cannot be reduced. That's how it works. What would you say, Madam Minister, does this law limit this right to freedom? If the powers of the Commissioner are established by the Law on Free Access to Information, they are not any personal authority of the Trustee himself, these are the powers of the body established to protect human rights. I believe we agree on that. But it's obviously a restriction of authority in a bill like this. The proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data will bring a number of problems instead of a solution. There will be more damage than benefits in that area. The law does not meet the needs of an internal legal order. It would be best to withdraw from the procedure until his provisions are formalised and incorporated into the legal system. I'd better put it this way, at least until most of this law is rewritten. The abuse of the law is possible, of course, and in the case of a legal provision on the granting of an authorisation for the purpose of obtaining access to data without specific verification by applicants, as, together with other legal provisions, it could restrict the powers of those who have the right to such authorisations. In the end, after all the criticisms that were made in the public by the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data, the withdrawal of the law from the procedure in August of this year (you also know that it did not arrive on the agenda for the vote, it was not voted on), the justice ministry promised to amend the law, and the Serbian government re-delivered it to the republican parliament in that original, unchanged form. I don't know, Madam Minister, if you've changed it, but compared to what I originally got, I don't remember getting another bill, with amendments. I didn't have it in front of me. You know for a fact that by releasing such a legal proposal into the congregation procedure, you have caused a great deal of disdain to the professional public. I believe it won't be any different now. As I was saying, such a bill that you later delivered I didn't win; I asked my colleagues if we got it, if maybe I'm the only one who didn't see... The amendments, Madam Minister, are something else; they can be adopted and do not have to be adopted. When you subsequently submit the amendment, you give parliament the opportunity not to simply adopt it. For me, as long as that amendment isn't on the agenda, until I see it, and I haven't seen it, I admit, the bill is as you delivered it. The amendments are something else, aren't they? Let me remind you specifically of all the drawbacks. I don't know if you've solved these amendments that you say you delivered them, because I really haven't had a chance to see them. I'd like to remind you of the controversial provisions of the proposal for a code of confidentiality. The first particular problem is to limit the authority of the Information Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector to access classified information. Of course, that's what I've been saying, but I'm going to tell you in a nutshell right now, just to remind you, and that's: there's no control and the possibility of practically declaring everything a secret (it reminds you of some old times, unfortunately); the right to hire one "safety" in every authority of government. I don't think that's necessary, given that, as I see it, only opens up the potential three or four thousand jobs, of course for politically similar, professionally irrelevant, but party-defined people. What bothers me very much are these symbolic fines from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars for those who do not comply with this law. So in simple terms, all "safeguards" risk a fine of 5,000 dinars if they don't deliver the data. It's really symbolic and it's so insignificant that it's just cheaper for him to pay than something to give; if he doesn't like it or if he doesn't want to give some papers, he'll simply pay 5,000 and finish the story. This law reduces the level of human rights and freedoms achieved, and, worse still, is contrary to the Constitution, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on free access to information of public importance. So I suggest you... I repeat once again, I haven't seen the amendments and it doesn't necessarily mean they'll be adopted. Are they adopted? The government adopted them, but I didn't see what those amendments said. All right, let's not get into the controversy, I'll be reminded by Mrs. Chairman. I would certainly suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure and finally write it right. On the other hand, it will never be clear to me that the government itself submits amendments to its draft laws, acknowledging that these laws are not working. It is certainly better for the government to withdraw these laws from the procedure, write them again, and then deliver them to the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28943	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and 45 seconds have been used. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28944	I thank you for all the suggestions that have been made here. I'm glad the move of the government of the Republic of Serbia was right in the direction of your discussion. So, a member of the 38th Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia... As far as I am aware, the Rules of Procedure regulate that the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when accepted on board, becomes an integral part of the bill. So Article 38 has been amended by amendment – it will have access, without prior verification, to all persons and managers of state bodies, i.e. State authorities elected by the National Assembly, judges of the Constitutional Court and judges. Accordingly, article 40 has been deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28945	The word has a folk MP, Mihailo Puric, followed by National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28946	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable MPs, are ahead of us two very important laws, above all, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. It is very important that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are made to make the law more effective, which will allow citizens to get information faster and more efficiently. It can be said that the current application of the Law has undoubtedly contributed to a valid democratisation of relations in society, affirmation of the principle of public authority, democracy of government and freedom of information. The law has allowed greater control of the work of the state administration, but has also contributed to curbing corruption. Citizens have been given the right to receive all information regarding the work of state authorities and other public authorities. Surely we can say that the Law is not media, but it has great importance for a journalistic profession, since it allows accurate and reliable data to be reached in a quick and efficient way. However, in the application of the Law, a number of norms proved to be inaccurate, thus being difficult to apply. Some of the deadlines were not specified, so they influenced the law to be applied slowly and ineffectively. The amendments and additions to the Law are clearly defined by the rules of work and the application of the Law on free access to information of public importance. That's what I'd like to say as soon as possible about this bill. As far as the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data is concerned, the data confidentiality law is one of the key laws missing in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. The bill envisions the organisation of a single system, the determination and protection of classified information that is of interest to Serbia's national and public security. There's no country in the world that doesn't keep their country's strategic secrets. Sun Cu Wu also wrote about it in his "Warring Skills" part, written in the fifth century BC. If we come from the fact that the reason for the adoption of a law on the confidentiality of data is the fact that the Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe that is not in a comprehensive and precise way regulated this area in one law, we can say that this matter is regulated in over 405 sublegal acts and as such is not sustainable, both from the point of view of national security protection and from the point of view of legal certainty and uninterrupted co-operation with other countries and international organisations. Given that the current normative solutions in the Republic of Serbia do not provide a proper level of public and are not a guarantee for the proper handling of courts, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data and other state bodies, it is absolutely necessary to pass a law on the confidentiality of data, which will provide conditions for adequate work. Modern legislations by other countries prescribe that the sharing of classified information is not carried out in relation to the state authorities in which it was created, but also in relation to the content and procedure for determining confidentiality and data storage. The adoption of a law on the confidentiality of data achieves the objective of laying down criteria in one law on the basis of which foreign and domestic data of interest to the Republic of Serbia will be determined as secrets; then, the terms and conditions of the termination of the confidentiality of data are defined in a uniform manner; rules for determining the degree of secrecy are laid down; precise time limits and conditions are laid down. Article 14 of the proposed confidentiality law clearly defines that the secret information may have four degrees of secrecy. These are: a state secret, top secret, confidential and internal. More specifically, the criteria for determining the degree of secrecy "state secret" and "secret secret" determines the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but with the previous opinion of the National Security Council, and the level of "confidential" and "internal" determines the Government, on a proposal from the competent minister, or the head of public authority. In Article 19. The bill sets out exactly the legal deadline after which the data expires to be classified. It is then stated that for the degree of secrecy, the "state secret" is 30 years, for the degree of secrecy "secretial" for 15 years, for the degree of secrecy "confidential" five years and for the degree of secrecy "internal" for two years, counting from the date of determining the confidentiality of the data. If we look at Articles 30 to 36, we can see that the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data provides for measures to protect classified information. Types of protection can be, based on these members, general and special. The obligations of the controllers shall be defined in secret information for the implementation of the safeguard measures, as well as the obligation to notify in the event of loss, theft, damage, destruction or unauthorised disclosure of classified information, as well as of foreign classified information. The data confidentiality law, based on the draft law, will apply from 1 January 2010. It is very important that Article 104 of the law sets a deadline for the adoption of sublaws, which is six months from the date of entry into force of this law, when it comes to acts adopted by the Government, and for other public authorities, that deadline is one year. It is very important that the law provides for a review of the existing secret markings and clearly defines it in Article 105(2), where it says that public authorities' managers will review the data and documents labels within two years of the date of entry into force of this law. Of course, from the date of entry into force of this law, the data and documents marked by a degree of secrecy under previously adopted regulations shall retain the type and degree of secrecy marked by earlier regulations. Dear People's MPs, the MEP Group ZES - Boris Tadic will support these two extremely significant laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28947	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28948	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the beginning, I would like to clarify a misunderstanding. The DSS parliamentary group is talking about the law, about the original text that you have sent us here, not about the amendments – not about the amendments you have written, not about the amendments written by the Citizens' Protector Saša Jankovic, not about the amendments written by the MPs of the opposition, but about the amendments made by the Council of Europe to write – I will not talk about it, we will talk about it on another occasion, when the amendments come to order. So at its last session before the summer break, the Serbian government adopted the bill. Since the moment this bill saw light days, criticism from the public on the task force, led by Mr. Vladimir Cvian, has collapsed. I'm warning you, I'm going to mention this name again, so I need you to remember. Therefore, the expert public commented very negatively on the proposal for this law; the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information, commented on NGOs, the largest number of them, also commented on citizens. So, the public was absolutely appalled by the proposal to take the democratisation six steps back and to deny the right for citizens to respect their rights and freedoms. So, this law is – of course, the criticisms were fully in line with the text that you delivered to us here – extremely bad. It is a law that is absolutely neither conceptual nor legally not responding to the level that should be presented to MPs and which should be adopted in the Serbian Parliament. It's not clear to me, when you're prescribing everything and everything, this law is the last one that's been passed in Europe, why at least this task force hasn't looked at what could have been copied from someone else? Because when we see the laws that you deliver to us, we really need to break language in translations, which are absolutely unacceptable to our language. What is the intention of the legislator of this law, and it is quite clear, is that many information, which citizens would need to know if this is a democratic state, remain secret, hidden, and that information is not placed on citizens hide and abuse, and ignorance and lack of results, and behind all of this to hide corruption and crime. It is quite clear that the democratic government, and this one says it for itself, and apparently it is not, must account for how it and its officials spend money on Serbian citizens. Most of this information, according to this law, should be protected, or not accessible to the citizens, and it is obvious that you do not know much about democracy and democratic society. What's the tendency of all these laws to come, and I'm thinking exactly about the Diaspora Act that was passed here a few days ago, and this law before us, it's that they don't actually provide any mechanisms for law enforcement. These mechanisms you're predicting are completely ineffective. Thus inefficient mechanisms cannot apply democratic standards that should exist in every democratic state and be high. Let's first of all a few very important things about criticism of everyone, the whole public, when it comes to this law. The first thing is that the proposal limits the authority of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Citizens; this is an example that does not exist in any law of these European laws that I have already mentioned. It is truly amazing that the government restricts acquired rights of citizens and that those who, under the Constitution and some other laws of Serbia, have been given the right to protect citizens' rights and to receive information that citizens cannot obtain in order to achieve their civil rights and freedoms, and that they cannot fulfil what they are entrusted with, that is, the jurisdiction they have received under the Constitution and the laws of Serbia. I'll mention your members, Article 2, where you explain the terms (point 7) and Article 9 where you say who determines secret information (point 5), so I'm going to paraphrase a little bit what it might look like in practice. It is truly amazing that you believe that the Government, which should protect the interests of citizens, can allow one of the directors of the veterinary station, in this case, because he really has entrusted jobs from the Government, and you should ask yourself which, that he declares confidential, inaccessible to the public and that neither the Trustee nor the Citizens' Protector can come to that information because it is the will of a single official. At the same time, for example, you will lead to one local self-government declaring information to be internally confidential and inaccessible to citizens, and that in another local self-government this information, say the mayor's salary or I don't know what else, it is not available to the public. The Commissioner and Protector of the Citizens are the only state bodies for which the possibility of your law, not your amendments, is explicitly envisaged, to be limited to accessing data necessary for the performance of their functions. I refer to Article 38 and Article 67 — these two members have no theoretical, legal, or practical basis. You say it yourself, with a second thought, that I'm right and some of those things you've fixed. These members, in fact, restrict the powers of the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, those who need to represent the citizens and take care of the citizens. In this way you contribute to the violation of human rights of citizens, to protect crime and corruption. The unprecedented solution is in Article 40, where you say in point 1) – while the action is under way, you cannot verify any information. That's an amazing solution! You say you're terminating Article 40. Thank God you cut him off. That's an amazing solution. Why? It's a complete suspension of jurisdiction. Here's an example of what it might look like in practice. You all remember that 20 years ago, journalist Dada Vujasinovic was killed. You don't know anything about it today. There's an action in progress. So neither her parents nor anyone else can get any information while the stock is under way for the next 500 years. That's absurd. The next thing you know, the whole thing, like a lot of things in this law, is surveillance. You say -- to oversee the application of this law, it is not intended for the jurisdiction of one of the authorities, as they exist in the world, but for the supervision to be performed by some kind of government service; you say and what is the government's service. Please, it's a complete illusion of surveillance. Any professional service has neither inspection nor supervisory authority. How can it be supervised without inspection and supervisory authority? Such powers are a complete absurdity. What the government really wanted with this law is best seen in the case of access by the Anti-Corruption Agency to strictly confidential information. Let's say again, if the Agency, for example, needs to investigate some violation of the law in its jurisdiction and needs information from some public official... Let's just say, the best example is that we don't know who the authors of the Information Act are; we don't know because, apparently, before this law was passed, the minister (who isn't here right now) declared it to be some top-level secret until today, no one knows how we're going to get that information. So, if the Agency needs to get some information, she needs to contact that functionary, get in line, fill out the security questionnaire, pass the BIA or MUP security check. That's not the end; she doesn't have to get approval, the approval can be denied. Then what is she supposed to do, lead the administrative dispute? Fantastic! It's an extraordinary example of fighting corruption and crime. We're going to put off something endless, we're going to push something up to 250 years in advance, and otherwise we've declared that it will speed up the fight against crime and corruption. How it works is best seen in these laws that come to us. You just don't want to stand up to it, except for the words. What else is wrong? The bill allows a large number of people to hide everything and everything, which doesn't suit them to come out in public, under the fact that it's some secret that the public doesn't need to know. Let's say, let's do another cute example. When the government declared it a secret that Serbia should pay the U.S. because our citizen Kovacevic beat up a US citizen by making it impossible for Serbia's citizens to get information, you violated our human rights, and that can't be a secret. Why don't you let, say, this information appear in public, that citizens know how their government works, how the government's officials spend money on Serbian citizens? It's very simple for you, and it's not intended for these data to be democratically available to the public. Your goal is something else, to hide how they function, to hide the abuses that these officials do. In your opinion, in fact, this law should have a function to protect the activities of the officials, not the states. Finally, when we talk about this law, I want to say another very interesting thing. What else is the tendency of this law? That power grouped in one place. Since information is power, power is grouped in one place. What is this place in this country? Of course, all-powerful President Boris Tadic, who apparently appointed his secretary-general to lead the task force. Here, when you put everything on paper, and you connect what's what, you get very simple information. The Secretary of the National Security Council, that's the face where all the classified information will be crossed, is that mentioning the head of the task force that wrote the law, Mr. Vladimir Cvian, behold, is the secretary-general of President Tadic. So he'll have jurisdiction over all classified information. Of course, it is quite clear that he will not say, “the honorable pioneering word, ” evidently, that he will not tell that secret information to his boss who put it there and who placed it as secretary - general. So when you just put people's names on it, you're going to come up with what's the point and purpose of this law. This law really annuls the democratic traditions that this country has achieved, meanwhile, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because both the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning were put in place at the time and the law was passed at the time. So, you're undoing all rights acquired by citizens. This law is anti-constitutional, as it restricts the competence of the Commissioner for Information from public importance and the Protector of Citizens. This proposal sucks. I think it's the healthiest and the most mature, for both you and the state, to pull it back. Just a few more words about the law on access to information of public importance. Mr. Bradic isn't here. I'll just say a few things. This law has shown that it is very good, in application it has shown that it is very good, and this also shows these few changes that have proved to be a brake for a really good law. It's mostly term issues, deadlines. It's a good thing it's changed, it's simple, things need to be accelerated. But what is not good in the first and second laws – when the laws are written are not consulted neither the Trustee nor the Protector of the Citizens. It is interesting that on this second proposal one of the amendments was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, on behalf of the Commissioner to whom the law does not allow. I hope that you, not you, because you do not represent this law, Mrs. Minister, but Mr. Bradic, who obviously has no other business than to listen to MPs who speak specifically about the law, will accept this amendment, as well as a few that we as an MP group have submitted. What else is interesting? This text, which has been adopted, which refers to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, is actually one text that has appeared in the Assembly since 2007, so it magically disappeared. It's the text of a civil initiative, an NGO. What is interesting is that very important parts have been left out, such as the protection of sources of information, then the possibility of appeal against the Assembly, the Government, the President, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Constitutional and the Supreme Court, when access to information is denied. It is interesting that the proposal of the group of citizens was then a primate of the Law on Free Access to Information over other regulations. So, what you didn't like, you left out, and you signed the other one. Signing someone else's is already a familiar thing. So you use a pretty dangerous method to sign other people's laws, use one dangerous method to destroy democracy in this country and use something else to concentrate everything in the hands of one president. Madam Minister, since this law I'm talking about applies to you, I think it's a good idea for you to withdraw that proposal. The DSS Parliamentary Group has written amendments. I'll answer that fellow who says that we from the opposition shouldn't be writing amendments if we don't support the law. If you fix the law with all the amendments we've accepted, then he'll be a solid law, so maybe we'll back him up. This way, in this text, we won't be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28949	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28950	Madam Chairman, my colleagues from the SRS remind me of a promise made yesterday; and I told Mr. Sreti Perić, on behalf of the SP MPs, I am also the vice president of the party, that we have a responsibility to the publicly spoken word, that what Mr. Čotric said the other day is true, regardless of what we think is not important and that we should understand the time and circumstances in which Mr. Vojislav Seselj's books were in 1988 and 1989, here, the public can see, these are originals, printed in Latin. I don't think that's the topic we need to deal with in particular, or that's something that needs to be burdened either by this assembly or by our public, but this is just for the sake of the truth. Yesterday I made a good estimate that some recent edition was obviously printed with Cyrillic, which is good. Dear Mrs Vojic-Markovic talked about good changes to bad law. Many criticisms have been made at the expense of good proposals that improve the obviously bad Law on free access to information of public importance, which was made in 2004, meaning, at a time when the legislator was Dr Vojislav Kostunica. The Serbian Renewal Movement is, I think, public knowledge, a political party that has long been ready for root and fundamental changes in society at all levels. It is a political party that is stared at the best part of our tradition and who wants, for the purpose of rehabilitating those who have felt all the bad in the totalitarian regime and for the sake of our common future, to make their full contribution to correcting historical injustices. What I think the public knows, but there should also be MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and I feel the need to say that, that is, that all legal solutions, regardless of what side they come from, that are heading in the direction that as a society as soon as we get rid of anything bad from our closer and further the past that burdens our present, will have full support for the Serbian Renewal Movement. Because we have repeatedly pointed out that all the post-communist countries of the former eastern bloc that have made serious reforms and serious cuts in their society have made serious progress. Obviously, we as a society and as a state have not made serious cuts and serious reforms to the end, that all such attempts at the beginning have been burdened by a series of difficult circumstances. This is certainly one of the reasons why the law that we are changing today and which has been significantly improved, means that the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter, which was passed five years ago, was so bad. I think everyone agreed in the discussions that he, in fact, was largely inapplicable and inaccurate, that there were neither deadlines nor clearly defined obligations for those who needed to deliver information of public importance. In any case, the SPO has been in favour of full control of the public authorities, of the full control of the work of the state authorities and of the persons representing them. It is certain that these changes will absolutely democratisation relations in society, that they will contribute to the affirmation and the public of work, of course, and freedom of information. We've been witnessing what's been going on for the past few years, about information published by the media. Just ten years ago, it was just unimaginable. Not to mention that totalitarian regime in which, if a soldier dies in service of the military, no matter what the cause of death, whether it's an international conflict, whether it's a fight, whether it's murder, whether it's an accident, whether the parent had the right to ask and to know what happened, how it happened, etc. Let's not talk about whether an ordinary citizen had the right to ask the public authority for information that concerns him and society. It is certain that with such a law, that is, with amendments to the Law, society moves in a positive direction forward. Therefore, the SPO will support everything that frees us from the ballast past, what is aimed at protecting the authorities, not at protecting the interests of citizens, associations of citizens and all others who are not in the sphere of public authority. Since the deadlines for the delivery of information are specified here, that it is precise and legal protection, that it is possible that the searcher of information of public importance alone determines in which form information of public importance, that there is also an appeal procedure, the MPs of the SPO, as the right hand side of the list of ZES, will give their vote in the day of voting with these amendments and additions to the Law. As far as the Privacy Policy is concerned, I think the most significant quality of this law is that it has even entered the procedure. So far, 400 sublegal acts and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulated this matter in several members, represented a legal gala and an opportunity to simply declare everything that is going on in the state, society and in the sphere of public authority a secret. As far as the SPO is concerned, it's safe for us to think a little differently. In our opinion, and here I have to agree with some of my friends from the opposition parties, this possibility of an extended "secret" label on many documents, and in many cases it should be more liberal. I agree with these estimates that this law still provides the possibility for public authorities to preserve some information that we think, perhaps with a more liberal solution, they should not be secret. What is good, what has been done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the SPO has advocated since its founding since April of this year, is that it has removed the "state secret" mark from the mounted political process of the trial of General Dragoljub – Draž Mihailovic, which has removed the "state secret" codes from all documents and freed the obligations to keep state secret witnesses who attended the shooting of General Dragoljub – Draže Mihailovic and, thanks above all, to the Ministry of Justice, Mr Slobodan Home, the established commission to discover the place of execution of the first antifascist in Europe, Dragoljub – Dra Mihailovic, whose place of execution, we believe will be the new Serbian sanctuary. I'd like to pull one parallel. We think about Frank, fascists in Spain, what the Spanish and international public thinks, but also one fascist had the strength to raise a big cross in Spain and to have leftists written on one side of the cross. A message was sent to the left to Spain, and on the other side of the cross, directed right in Spain, that civil war was the biggest accident and that all of them were victims of a bad time. The Serbian Renewal Movement, with its establishment, adopted the Declaration of National Reconciliation. It is fortunate that, according to the SPO proposal, two anti-fascist movements have been evened – they are a Montenegrin and Partizan movement. What we certainly believe is that with our joint efforts, and the SPS puts ourselves in that part at our disposal, we will be able to correct all historical injustices, that we will be able to rehabilitate all innocent victims since 1945. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted on 25 January 2006, Resolution 1481, is largely prescribed from the Serbian Renewal Movement programme. I believe that in due course, we, as well as this assembly, will adopt a similar resolution and that we will, in particular, do much on the ground, especially with regard to what is announced, which is the removal of the veil of state secrets from many mass graves in which the victims of the Serb civil class were primarily killed by revolutionary terror. As a political party in 1997, in Kragujevac, we erected a memorial mark in a place where Kragujevci was shot by partisan units in 1944 and 1945. We believe that all these places in Serbia will receive appropriate mentions and that, according to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's Resolution on measures to remove the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes, which committed crimes on behalf of class combat theory, the principles of dictatorship, proletariats and legitimateise the removal of people who were considered harmful to the construction of a new society and enemies of communist regimes, that the vast number of victims, above all in the countries of the Eastern bloc and the former Soviet Union... Of course, and this is the main message, the Parliamentary Assembly strongly condemns human rights violations, and it is serious violations committed by totalitarian communist regimes, expressing compassion, understanding and recognition for the victims of these crimes. The fact is that with these two legislative proposals, our society is largely opening and democratisation, that the degree of human rights is going to a higher level. I say, the Serbian Renewal Movement would like these laws to have entered the assembly procedure much earlier, to go beyond the proposed legislative solutions in some solutions, but since we are aware of the moment in which our society is located and of all circumstances, the Serbian Renewal Movement will therefore, and for the reasons I presented in the voting day, give support to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28951	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28952	Thank you, Madam President. Since I was mentioned, since what I said was badly interpreted, I must say that I spoke of the law on the availability of information of public importance as a good law, which, like any living matter, at some point showed that certain things should be clarified, changed deadlines and everything else. I must mention that this law was then proposed by Mr. Koadinovic, who represents a certain political group, and that Mr. Chikiriz is also... Maybe not him personally, but his group of MPs voted for the law at the time. I'm not ashamed of voting for that law on behalf of my parliamentary group. That law has really moved democracy forward and I think it's quite right to fix something that shows some inconsistencies and flaws in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28953	Mr. Sreto Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28954	If Mr. Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, is exclusively telling the truth in The Hague, then for one SRS MP here in the Serbian Parliament the Holy Scriptures is telling the truth. The book I showed yesterday was "Hike on Heretics", a 1991 edition written in Cyrillic. Mr Chikiriz, the controversy between you and me has been caused by the wish of Mr Krasic's MP to respect the provisions of the Constitution, Article 10th position 1: "In the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter." He spoke about the situation in Belgrade, and I could speak about the situation in Loznica, the birthplace of Vuk Karadzic. That's what we want to do. You have now shown me two books where the Cyrillic also writes - Seselj Vojislav, or its initials. We can't get into the matter of technique; maybe in some period it's something and printed, at that time, in the 1980s, many articles were directed to various magazines that went out in the former Yugoslavia and probably some of them were printed in Latin. What everyone knows is that Vojislav Seselj has always written and signed with Cyrillic. There is one more important thing – it is important what the books write, not how they are written. There is something much more important than that – Dr Vojislav Seselj and the SRS have never changed their ideology. It's the ideology of Serbian nationalism. The general public in Serbia is well known when it comes to the party you belong to and the president of your party, how many times has he changed ideology, and others that were once in the SRS. I am aware that Mr. Cotric, of the Serbian Freedom Movement, has been very close to the president of the SRS through some further parties. So, consistent ideology of Serbian nationalism remained Professor Vojislav Seselj, and some couldn't handle it, probably under pressure on the side, and perhaps because of their own conscience. By the way, and I'll interrupt every further controversy, the book "The Judge" was published in a Latin letter, but I didn't mind reading it, and the author is Mr. Vuk Draskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28955	Mr. Chotric, I will give my word to Mr. Chikiriz, because that is the dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28956	I agree with Mr. Sreto Peric that the debate on this subject should be interrupted, but what the public needs to know – the basis in which they differed, after working together at the beginning, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Draskovic is that we felt that Knin was defending himself in Belgrade and that the internal force of Serbia could only be strong if he had good external protection, and you represented the need for Belgrade to defend itself in Knin. I don't think it's unpathetic or ours, or your thesis, I think it's serious people who have different political views, and I doubt anyone thought ill of their country. The patriotism of every individual and every political party, no matter how articulized, I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28957	Mr. Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28958	Mr. Periæ, for starters, for your information, Vuk Karadzic was not born in Loznica, born in Trsic. I think it's common knowledge and children in kindergartens know that. As for the books Mr. Vojislav Seselj published on the Latin, here they are: "Books for the stake", in 1989; it is true, the initials are on Cyrillic, and everything else is on Latin. Moreover, it says that Mr Vojislav Seselj and the publisher of these books – edition and printing Dr Vojislav Seselj, Mihajla Pupina 14, Zemun polje etc. I agree with you that the essence, not the form, is not what letter the books are written on, but it goes away from what you said, that he did not change his views, that he was always consistent with Serbian nationalism. If the point is, then this book also shows what attitudes Mr Vojislav Seselj represented. The book was published in 1988, and it is called "Commanding Self-Government", where Vojislav Seselj glorifies the system, where he continues what he published in a previous book called the "Marxist concept of an armed people", where he took a sentence from Edward Cardeli on the armed people, which he consistently worked in that book. On consistency, just one more thing: when Vuk Draskovic, a well-known writer at the time, wrote several novels about the saga, about the loss of the Serb people from Ustasha in World War II, about the genocide of the Serb people, interviewed Vojislav Seselj for "The Youth News", referred to the question of Vuk Draskovic to the talker, so Vojislav Seselj, who was an assistant at the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo at the time, which is according to nationality, answered the following question: "Yugosloven of Serbian origin". So much for consistency, so much for Serbian nationalism, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. I'm sorry that he was actually changing, but he was constantly changing worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28959	Good luck, you said you wouldn't. Will you? Mr. Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28960	Mr. Čotric, thank you for the little correction, so I guess it's clear to everyone, the "Vukov's Assembly" is being held in Trsic, of course, it is always being followed in Loznica. I must thank you for showing us the MPs and the wider Serbian public to read carefully the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. I'll give you the last editions, you probably don't, so I'll make sure you have them in your library and those books. I'm curious, if it's not a problem, to answer me – from the interview, was that the moment Mr. Vuk Draskovic was a secretary at Mike Špiljka's or was he from a later period? That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28961	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragan Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS feels the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. There were such suggestions in this congregation yesterday. We really believe that what the government has done to its amendments to its law is really not enough, that all this has been done not because the government has matured, that the law is not good or that it needs to be improved, but that the government has done it under public pressure. In this country, this Parliament has become a practice. Unfortunately, good things don't come from the government, but they manage, define, model as the public, from these or those interests, will. You see, Madam Minister, when the Government expresses its determination to adopt one of these laws in the Assembly, or to give that law to the Assembly, then in that law you have to recognise national awareness and responsibility, you have to recognize what the situation is or what the situation should be with the rights and freedoms of that state; you have to recognise democratic and parliamentary principles in those who write laws, certainly; and, ultimately, you have to recognize the maturity of the Government to use smart and useful things from comparative legal practice. All of these categories cannot be recognized in this text. As far as you're aware of him, as many as some of the others wrote him, I don't know, but what I was talking about at the beginning of this presentation is really unrecognizable in this law. Yesterday you said that the area of the legal regime of classified information in Serbia is a mess. And indeed it is, because it is arranged by 400 sublegal acts. But my question to you and to the government that you're sitting in is, and who told you to bring this bill before? No one was defending you. You could have done it not a year ago, three years ago, you could have done it seven years ago, but you didn't. The Serbian Radical Party believes that you who have been in power for the last nine years in Serbia have been tending to produce chaos in this area because they were someone's interests. If the state really shows a commitment to regulate this area, then she's had enough with three or four or five positions in the Criminal Code, and here it can be a turn. On the contrary, the way it is in Serbia, when there is no will, then the matter is arranged with 400 sublegal acts. It is not the problem that 400 people have, the essence of the problem is that sublegal acts are exclusively in the hands of the government and the executive authorities, far from parliamentary control and from the eyes of the public. So, from the process of writing, adopting, implementing or controlling them, everything is entrusted to the government. You cannot start a story when you represent this law without mentioning your responsibility for the chaos that exists in this area in Serbia. You mentioned in your explanation of this law and the fact that there is no transparency in this area. The question the SRS has been asking you: what has not been transparent in the last nine years, when it comes to the secrecy of the data? This country, its political, financial, security system, cruisers of foreign intelligence, directly or indirectly, through the non-governmental, third-sector, these Segedin students, thanks to whom you are sitting here today. These are some things that you really had to explain at the beginning, not to read to us, and repeat that practice, what we ourselves could see and read in the reasoning of the law, which every MP in this House gets. The question arises which of the public authorities will enforce the norms or provisions defined in this law? One of them is certainly BIA and, of course, managers within that public authority. So this applies to security checks, determination, control, internal inspection, etc., since we don't have much time to touch everything right now. I ask you, Madam Minister, and you will see at the end of this segment of my presentation, and why do I ask you, what is the BIA doing today in Serbia? He doesn't do anything except chase Ratko Mladic and, where he's supposed to, he's setting up public prosecutors, since they're going re-election or choice, as it is, it doesn't matter. How can BIA deal with other affairs when those responsible, executives in these bodies of people who absolutely do not have political or professional credibility to sit in the positions of directors in the BIA or their deputies? I'd like to hear what is Sasha Vukadinovic's professional credibility to be BIA director? Did the fact that at one point they were able to trade information and he and his deputy, or maybe because they were Dusan Petrovic's favorites, which of them went too far? You see, we suspect that the application of this law will be appropriate because they are in responsible positions in the services that this law will enforce people who have no credibility to do so. We do not dispute their personal credibility, exclusively professional, just professional credibility. So we ask you, this law, as you say, should ensure national security, legal certainty, constitutional order, will it be entrusted to the people and services they operate, will it be adequately entrusted and will they adequately apply the measures that this law provides for? If they don't do their job, I'm going to illustrate to you one example that I opened up in this House a few days ago. We were talking about the Military Security Agency, the Military Intelligence Service, there were representatives of the Justice Department, and I was talking about a kind of extremism that appeared in the Pcinj County, before which the service that will apply the provisions of this law closes its eyes. It happens in the municipality of Bosilegrad, where individuals or extremists wrote an article in newspapers that represent... And you'll estimate, because if you're willing to react to that, you can get papers to see it, if there are elements of the attacks on the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Here's the thing: There's an institution in Bosilegrad called the Cultural Information Centre. She's not paid by the municipality, and, of course, by the government, she's funded by donations. She deals with the problems of the Bulgarian minority in Bosilegrad. In one of its texts, in this number 58, 59 is the title “Cannibalism in the Balkan way”... Among other things, since the text is ensnared, I will read only what the elements of the attacks on the constitutional order could recognize. The text says: “We were given a peace agreement (read: according to the dictatorship) to a state that no longer exists, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, who suffered a change, grew into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, later suffered several more transformations, which will say that from the legal point of view this agreement is not valid, because one of the subjects of the agreement no longer exists is subject to revision. The very request for an audit is a guarantee that Bulgaria is interested in the fate of its countrymen. We are given as much to Serbs, as to Croats and Slovenians, who today live in two internationally recognised states, which can legally resolve our fate. “ Among other things, it says: “Bulgaria has an obligation to at least inform the world’s public so that it takes action in the desired direction. It is high time to roll up our sleeves, describe in one letter all the pain and all the sufferings and present them to the world community, the UN and the EU." I will remind you that Bulgaria is soon a member of the European Union. On this text so far, since its publication (this text I have received from citizens who anonymously sent it to the SRS Parliament Club) no one but us from the SRS in this assembly and representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church has responded. I expect... This is what we got in May, or the number is from March of the month, the bulletin that's been published; you'll get everything, of course, photocopies. I repeat, no one but us and the representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church has reacted. This is a serious problem, a problem for public authorities to deal with, among other things, this law. That's what the citizens of Bosilegrad expect from you. The Bulgarian national minority in Serbia enjoys all the rights one national minority should enjoy. Relations between the Bulgarian minority and the Serbian people are at a very, very high level. It is the state's duty to react, to prevent individuals from destroying and dissipating them. So much for BIA, so much for services, or public authorities, and their willingness to act in a positive, national and responsible sense, when it comes to their jurisdiction. We believe that the concept, as you have made the law, will in principle create a space to carry out further dictatorships in this area of executive power, and the president, and the ruling parties and all those who support them. You have ruled out parliamentary control because of all of this, which is essentially one of the major objections of the SRS. When it comes to parliament, he mentions the duplicity in two or more members, but two are important: in article 26, you say parliament can remove the mark of secrecy from some information if it is in the public interest, and in Article 88, that the office submits a report to the relevant Assembly Security Affairs Committee. The same 88th article does not foresee mechanisms that will react if the Committee finds something that should not be found, and when it comes to Article 26, that public interest will again be the expression of the majority's political will. We would not have the right to challenge the political will of the majority if most in Serbia were healthy and normal, but Serbia has a congregation majority that is provided from session to session, a congregation majority that has often provided it in the ranks of the opposition. You have a congregation majority in Serbia, and this was demonstrated in the last day of voting, on Monday, which often political consensus over some issues couldn't provide itself. How can we not doubt that the political will in the context of taking down the mark of secrecy will be correct and correct? We also find that you have done a very poor stratification in terms of the degree of secrecy of the data. Seems to us that's where you mixed your grandmothers and frogs. I think that the state has to show, when it comes to the degree of secrecy of data whose abuse or inadequate treatment can be questioned by national security, constitutional order, or by irrevocable or severe damage to the Republic of Serbia... We believe that these data cannot have the same treatment in any normative of this law as others. We believe that many of the bad norms of this law have tried to vote in the Assembly and to allow the law to live in the shadow of the Commissioner's debate with whoever wrote this law, which was completely wrong. We have no intention of being trustees' lawyers, but we believe that the state is obliged to be restrictive in one sense, while in another sense it must find a model to enable or provide full rights and freedoms for citizens. Since my colleagues from the SRS have a lot of things to tell you and messages, more stories will be discussed in particular. You'll only give such a model of law the legitimacy of the chaos that you've been promoting for nine years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28963	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28964	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I want to thank the people of the Justice Ministry and Ms. Snezani Malovic at the beginning of my presentation. You really do your job one good way. Serbian citizens need to know that. If someone in this House has passed quality laws, if there is a change in work somewhere, if there is will, effort and selfless efforts to transform a society sector, it is visible in the justice sector. You are, indeed, through the Ministry of Justice, along with your expert team, bringing very high-quality laws here, which and how they transform this society into a better, fairer society. Serbia's citizens are kind of insufferable, there have been shortages in previous periods of our lives, there have been difficult times in Serbia, and there is no need to absorb it now, but Serbian citizens do not bear injustice at all. All efforts aimed at correcting injustice, and especially efforts aimed at fighting crime, must be seen, commended, observed, especially as the fight against crime in Serbia carries numerous risks. Indeed, like all ZES MPs, I have recently been very upset with the fact that people who are the backbone of the fight against crime are threatened to be threatened with existence, life, to be threatened with families. The state of Serbia is capable of resisting and beating every type of crime and the state of Serbia will beat crime. No matter who makes up the political elite in this country, who makes up power, the state of Serbia must be unique when it comes to crime. I am not looking here, but I demand the support of all political parties and all the structures of this society. Let's turn around the law and see what we're discussing here, we've heard some interesting thoughts. The state of Serbia is a state with a strong communist tradition. In a country that has a strong communist tradition, a cult secret has been successfully nurtured for many years. However, this society with a strong communist heritage and today has relics of that heritage, which has been implemented in laws, in a way of thinking, in a system of values. These laws contribute to further democratisation of our society and certainly promote the development of our society. Those of you who say "theme" have to remind me, since you were just talking about BIA, that here is exactly Dusan Petrovic, whom you mentioned earlier, was also publicly asked by BIA Director Radet Bulatovic – excuse me, what is your salary? You know, this is where the box, locked with two chains, wouldn't open it, where that pay was written. We couldn't open the box. Not to mention the question that has been raised in public – I'm sorry, how many people in this country are listening? Well, Rodoljub Shabic had a hard time explaining to the people who led the BIA to deliver these data here and to see what their salary was. Sasa Vukadinović, director of BIA, made both data available to the public – we also know how much his salary is and how many people are listening here. No more taboo themes. Not to mention, when you ask what qualifications are that someone is running the BIA, about Dr. Dabic sitting here in the Mad House playing geese until Sasa Vukadinovic was elected BIA director. I understand his inconsolable patients, the patients of Dr Dabic, who are now moaning that Dr Dabic, or Radovan Karadzic, is where he should be. I don't understand why so much anger and indignation towards a service that no longer keeps cocaine in the "Comercial Bank" safe, as was done at a time when the party that is now criticising the work of the BIA was in power, but the international routes of cocaine and record deliveries of that drug were met in international waters under the leadership role of the Serbian BIA. You know, if we want to be part of the world's security system, you have to commend such actions. You're not having an abstinent crisis, are you? Don't throw it away. There'll be more action like that. We'll deal with crime. There won't be any drugs in the "Commercial Bank" safe, there won't be any drugs on the streets, we'll do the job we got a mandate from the citizens. My only regret is that the BIA is still in no position to open the files of the State Security Service. Then I wouldn't have to go to Sarajevo and buy Ivan Beslic's book "The Guardians of Yugoslavia", to see who was an associate of the State Security Service with the code "Magister". Thanks to the book of Goran Petrovic, I had the opportunity to see who had the code "Magistar" and who in Sarajevo was a doctor of science, and then sent to Belgrade to break this country and break the opposition. On the other hand, one political party shares its party's reputation at the beginning of winter, I understand, it's good for the arson, but in that party vote, contrary to the Public Information Act, many people sitting in this room are offended. Nenad Konstantinovic is insulted in a very vulgar way; people who belonged to the Resistance move are insulted, and very often here are the people's labels of foreign spies. If we really applied this law on the availability of information, if we really had the opportunity to open the files of the State Security Service, we'd know who and whose account he was a spy for, which organization, who had the code "Magister", why he got that code, what his assignment was, and then we wouldn't have this kind of discussion here. On the other hand, we have one subsequent opposition mind. I will read some of the discussions and now opposition MPs from 2004 when we passed the Data Secrecy Act and in 2007 when we changed it: "This is a recommendation from the NATO Pact, so that the NATO Pact has access to information. “ The same ones who criticized the law, after four years thought and saw that DS was right and that the law is good, are now defending the Trustee, who is no longer a NATO mercenary. It is no longer a man who will give his secrets, the secrets of this state, to the NATO Pact and to The Hague tribunal, but rather appeal to it. You see how good it is when someone's in opposition. It's the hardest thing in the opposition for the first 20 years, and then it'll be easier for you. By then, you'll realize that these laws we bring are good too. I expect you to fix them with amendments, but let's see what else we need to do with this law. When we talk about the law on the availability of information, we refer to the Constitution as the highest legal act of this country. In Article 51, the right to inform citizens, it states that everyone has the right to be informed in full, complete and timely of issues of public importance. I think it would be good for some of the new constitutions of the Republic of Serbia to have the right to access information as a constitutional category, such as the right to notification. I think it would be a good idea for the trustee institution to be a constitutional category of information of public importance. It is good that today when we discuss these laws, access to information of public importance and state secrets, we know that certain criminal norms will be provided, as will certain security forms be provided for in order for someone to be able to dispose of state secrets. When it comes to one security questionnaire for natural persons, in Article 59, I think it's well-assembled, well planned, well done, as well as the whole law, but I think it's good to deal with some of the important things that are in this law here. He says: The basic security questionnaire for natural persons – The basic security questionnaire includes the following information about the applicant, in addition to the name, last name, home number, data on membership or participation in activities of organisations whose activities or objectives are prohibited; then contact with foreign security services and intelligence services is sought. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we had open files, if we had the chance to know which of them worked for some security services that are now security services of foreign republics, or our former republics. I'm sure there will be us, but I'm sure then "Magistar" will sit here and not be much of a caller. On the other hand, here we had the opportunity to hear the criticism of Mr. Chotric, that he had changed his political views. I've known him for 30 years, I've never heard a branch fall out of a tree; I've heard, here, now the November moon, always a leaf fall off a tree, but a tree falls off a branch, I haven't heard it, really. I don't think Mr. Chotriæ has changed. There's only one thing I can say for the end. These laws are the best European guideline for Serbia, and the application of these laws is certainly a step towards Europe, and I think we need to skip that staircase two steps, because we don't have time to wait. So, prepare the amendments, we'll be willing to accept all the professionally designed amendments, but I have to tell you that the law is well done. Once again, Mrs Malovic, I congratulate you on everything you have done on judicial reform in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28965	The word has Dragan Todorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to a large extent all of what Srdjan Milivojevic said, if we were to exclude who's talking (I don't mean anything more than a member of the DS), I could accept. Declaratively, it's kind of a thing that no man could possibly be against. What are we up against? Against practice. You know, this is a commercial, this is an EPP. What's the background? The background is essentially a totalitarian party society that has not changed at all compared to some earlier periods. I'll remind you, when you had the chance, it wasn't long ago, to show that you're a new society, to advocate some new values, you failed the exam. There are three actions of the 2001 State Security Service: "Cactus", "Shumadia" and "Machva". This includes about 50 persons who were followed without the approval of the Supreme Court. These include the highest political peak, criminals from the former and then government. I said there was a possibility that based on information we could get from the BIA, some facts about the murder of Zoran Djindjic might also be revealed because his environment was directly monitored, and the closest environment. Do you know who stopped it? It's not the SRS, it was prevented by the Democratic Party. They refused to obtain that information from the Defence and Security Committee, which would in some way pave the way for state security services, i.e. BIA, and civil and military security services not to be abused by the authorities. You didn't do it and that's why you have no moral right to speak to anyone, in the past or in the future, whether they will do the same thing you did. Because if we had received information, we would have known who ordered these investigations and, more importantly, we would have known the users of the information collected from these people. Then a lot of things would argue. What you mentioned about drugs in the Commercial Bank, Mr. Milivojevic, was any person accused of being found in the vault in an illegal manner being transported to the vault? Look out, all the drugs that are found anywhere... (President: I thank you. Time. Let me just finish my sentence. (President: finish your sentence.) )......................................................................................................... I'll finish the sentence, it can be taken from the customs, from the police, or from the army at the border crossings. Is there one gram that came in that vault the other way? If he did, and someone didn't answer, then you're responsible. Therefore, you must take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28967	Thank you. Mr. Ilichu, tell me your base of communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28968	The party I have to use, 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28969	You can't get the word now. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28970	It is truly unacceptable for me to listen to this way of discussion from those who have taught us about bonton and parliamentary behavior for nine years. So my basis for reporting is Article 104, which points out that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, you are very likely to have missed Mr. Milivojevic's throw-off, which I do not claim to be according to the Rules of Procedure, but I claim is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but that certainly is no reason to be offended by the qualification that he is in an abstinent crisis... The least I expected of you, as a qualified person to condemn such a thing, is to warn Mr. Milivojevic of good behavior and treatment towards his colleagues. So he can express his political views. He can say that we are the worst representatives, the worst political party and try to justify it. He'll have a hard time taking his hand, we've been listening to him for years, but maybe that's what happens. Those are his political views. I would ask you, as president of the assembly, to protect the integrity of all MPs here. The abstinent crisis, my laity notion of it, points to a disease of addiction and it's an insult to my colleague. So, what I'm expecting is to make a statement to Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28971	Well, according to my assessment, there's been a transmission of speech, not an insult, but if you're not satisfied... I didn't think the Rules of Procedure had been hurt, otherwise I would have intervened. I would be able to intervene often even when MPs from other parliamentary groups speak in a similar way. If you are not satisfied with my answer, you have the right to request that in the day of voting the Assembly be declared. The assembly will plead. Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28972	Madam Chairman, there are people here who are in charge of keeping stenographic notes of this session. I haven't told any of my colleagues he's in an abstinent crisis. I made it clear that I understand the abstinent crisis, it refers to drug dealers. If someone recognized themselves, I'm really sorry, I had no intention of allowing anyone to be recognized. When it comes to Mr. Zoran Djindjic, the tragically injured Prime Minister, I think the court is able to give the final word and there is no need to give the word to the Defence and Security Committee. I think the state of Serbia will manage to deal with this serious crime, because, as you know, the state of Serbia is able to carry out it on its own. Thank you to all who have certain knowledge. Let them be shared with the prosecution, not with the citizens of Serbia and parliament. When I say, once again, I'm undermining, I'm clearly saying that I understand the abstinent crisis. On the other hand, there are various addictions; there is dependence on cigarettes, alcohol, there is dependence on government. It's all being treated in certain ways. Dependence on power is best treated through opposition activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28973	Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Mr. Dragan Todorovic appears in a replica. Make up your mind, you two. Mr. DraganStevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28974	I was looking for a replica because I was misread. Sometimes a man can try as hard as he wants to make an impression to blow his mind, but it really doesn't work out for him and the problem is that he insists on it. I would really like to see Mr Milivojevic commenting on behalf of the DS in the context of extremism in Bosilegrad, not telling us fairy tales about Bosnia, Beslic or I don't know what he mentioned. I don't want to open a replica or war with Mr. Milivojevic. In what he said, I recognize and erase humanity with you. Mr Milivojevic, the people you and I mentioned, from Saša Vukadinović and his deputies, etc., are your environment, a pear, a godfather, friendly, whatever you want, and I respect your obligation to act on their behalf. It is truly hypocritical that you are referring to the Commissioner for Public Information. If you look at his five latest reports, the basic stumbling block for its operation is the executive power in Serbia. You've all done that they don't function: Commissioner, State Audit Agency, Anti-Corruption and Crime Agency. And now, on their behalf, or for their account, you perform, speak, and lecture us. As the commercial banks, cocaine, and service are mentioned, the difference is that cocaine was being guarded at the time, and now the service is selling it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28975	Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milivojevic, if it were someone else, you could easily come to the same conclusion that I have come to, that the behaviour of DS when it comes to "Cactus", "The Sword", "Shumadia" reflects the DS in the best possible way, that is, its understanding of what the government has civilian control. That's the point. One of your representatives in a duel told me that civilian control is a minister because it's elected by the government. It's just amazing. He's the Secretary of State of the Department of Defense. It's the way you have power. Power at all costs, that's your goal and it's addictive. That's why you joined the coalition with the SPS, because you entered with an opponent you wanted to eliminate physically in 2000 after October 5th. Let's go back to "Cactus" and "Shumadi". The court did say one thing, based on some of the facts and elements he had and made a verdict. Whether she's legally justified, whether she's just or not, I don't want to go into it, I don't have the facts, but what we're going to get, about these three actions, is much more important than what the court has done. Mr Milivojevic, we would finally establish civil control and let every authority know that it will be prosecuted, or that it will be responsible for abuse if it abuses state security services. That's the point, because state security services, not only in this country, in almost every country in the world, are being abused for political purposes by those in power. It is normal that these abuses are much less in countries where civilian control is stronger, where it has a longer tradition. We were supposed to go that way, but you stopped the launch, or we were going that way, and that's your responsibility. That's why you have no moral right to talk about it. You are no different from totalitarian regimes, because you also use state security services. One more thing, you were called the drug found in the Commercial Bank ended up on the streets. Think about it, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28977	Mr. Jovan Palalic has a word. Mr. Ilic, you will have the right to receive your word at the end, since your MP group has not used, or the representative has not used the time, but in the end, after already registered speakers. Here you go, Mr. Palalyc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28978	Yesterday, in the context of the principle debate, I pointed out the fundamental shortcomings of this bill, and now I will look back at some of the parts I want to make, given that today it was heard in the discussion that this bill is a step towards the democratisation of society. All of this, especially part of the law relating to human rights, to the position of the individual, to the one seeking information, is a step back and really reminds us of communist times. It really reminds us of communist times, because the way the secret information is given to the people who are looking for it, the security checks that are being done then, the way these data can be misused by the Council's office, which will come to that data, represents what has already been seen and represents a dangerous opportunity for the instrumentisation of security services and data by the authorities. I'm going to point out here to several members who are referring to data-seeking facial checks, the way these data is collected, security data, the way data is stored and used. These are Articles 66, 67, etc. The question that is really contradictory here leaves us with the possibility that we can see these data abuses in Articles 66 and 67. It says this, Article 66: “Organs responsible for carrying out security checks shall submit to the Office of the Council a report on the results of the security check, i.e. specific security checks, including the completed security questionnaire, with a recommendation for issuing or denying approval. “ There is no indication that these data that come to the Council cannot be used for any other purpose than to obtain the requested information. I point out this because, without precise definition of it, the Council's office, which is formed by the current Security Council, which consists mainly of people from one political party (in this case DS) and people from the Serbian presidency, can use these data for quite another purpose. Article 67 says: “If the report is incomplete or is delivered without recommendation, the Council office makes a solution based on the report delivered. “ What does that mean? Yes, although the data is incomplete, the office can allow a person, for political reasons, to access some data. Why didn't it say it here unequivocally – if the report after the security check isn't complete, you can't get the information. You should've said it out loud. This leaves the Council with the possibility that he might be working for the Secret Service. It is said: incomplete or delivered without recommendation. What does it mean to be incomplete – one person did not write that he was an associate of the foreign ministry because it was sought in the questionnaire? The service that checks it out, let's say the B.I.A., delivers a questionnaire to the Council without that information. That person may be an associate of the service, but the Council has a discretionary right to give the person some information that is of interest to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Very serious abuses can occur here. Where the biggest problem, where, in fact, anyone who wishes to obtain some information – is to be refused – especially if the report on the results of the security check and the recommendations for the issue of compliance with the law of the prescribed conditions for the authorisation is to make an important change in the verified data, which could be of an impact on the approval, an additional check will be ordered. How could the Council's office have gotten this information that there was a significant change in data from a security questionnaire? Only if it was someone who was permanently following, in all segments that were filled in the questionnaire. This is the danger – that any of us who needs information should be in a position to think, firstly, whether to honestly fill out a questionnaire; secondly, what can happen if something changes in any of this data, and there is no obligation of the BIA or the MUP service to carry out the checks on you permanently. These are very serious things and go directly into human rights and citizens' rights or, as the law on the availability of information says, in the interest of information being known. That's why this law is dangerous. He is unspeakable, inaccounted for in his most sensitive segment, which refers to human rights, and especially as all data flows eventually, not data and records about what secret data are, but all security checks of all persons who have ever asked for information are being poured into the Council's office. It's one bank of data about all of us, controlled by people who are politicians, not professional people, but politicians. That's why this law has a number of problems, which I have the impression, in public, end up with a serious debate, and are focused only, justifiably, on the rights of the Trustee and the Protector of the Citizens. Given the extent of the discretionary rights of the authorities that the data can have in this law, it can go in a completely different direction and really reminds us of some of the times that we thought were long gone. Here they want to have a sea of data on people trying to get some information that's important to them. The biggest paradox is the paradox, and that's what I want to hear in the end, Mrs. Malovic, how is it possible that local self-government, the provinces can declare certain data secret? How is it possible that these authorities, as defined here, are dealing with data that are of interest to the security of the Republic of Serbia? So anything can become a secret in Serbia. Absolutely everything, even what should in no way be a secret, because it refers to the exercise of power and what citizens should know, because citizens' resources are filled with the budget and individual officials receive salaries and perform their functions. It's okay for top state authorities to declare certain information secret, but to bring it down to the lowest levels of government, it's absolutely unacceptable. That's why I wanted to focus in this second part of the discussion on those parts of the law that can seriously violate the right to access information to persons who have the opportunity to seek some information that has been declared secret, from the widest circle of people, so that they can come into a situation where some citizen of some municipalities is looking for information that is secret and subject to permanent security checks. This is a problem, and it is a serious danger to make fun of a good law, which was passed in 2004, when the Democratic Party of Serbia was in power, a law on the availability of information of public importance, which was meant to extend the possibility of transparency of governmental conduct and the possibility of citizens having insight, as they pay and finance the state, into what the state authorities are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28979	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28980	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ministers, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance, we must realise that it certainly leads to the improvement of the existing legal solution. Some provisions are more precise and, as the Proposer argues, should lead to its more effective application in practice. However, we must also realise that these changes are not sufficient and adequate to remove all problems that have prevented free access to information from public importance. We also have to realize that some changes are cosmetic and that they are essentially left out. We also find that some suggestions and remarks made by the Commissioners for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning have not been accepted, although he is well aware that this law is being applied in practice. When we talk about amendments to this law, we have to ask one question – why are only some members changed, why are members who have been left out as an inadequate legal solution, which is, after all, confirmed in practice? We cannot, too, without asking ourselves to what extent did this proposal come as a result of the government's work, and to what extent does it contain a proposal from NGOs that supported citizens' signatures and sent parliament? Of course, the government used what was appropriate to her; what was not, it was left out. It is even more absurd that it is precisely those who have advocated the development of civil society for years as one of the preconditions for the development of democracy. We have to agree that the existing legal solution was really flawed and that practice has shown that it is necessary to change it. Instead of removing it, we have a proposal that does not remove much. The law has indeed given the possibility to carry out greater control of the work of the state administration, i.e. to give citizens information on the work of the state authorities and other public authorities, but between the possibility and the way in which this right is exercised in practice, you will agree, there is a big difference. The problem is that it is the right to free access to information of public importance in practice repeatedly in a variety of ways obstructed or ignored, so that there is largely a lack of adequate control of the work of the state administration without talking about reducing corruption. When we talk about this inadequacy, I'm going to set an example. The mechanism for launching responsibility was bad, and violations of the right to access information were not sanctioned. The proposed changes to some institution remain protected; citizens do not have the right to appeal to the government's decision, the Assembly, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the republic's public prosecutor. Inaccuracy exists when it comes to the possibility of a administrative dispute against the solution, but more will be spoken of by my fellow lawyers. It has not been resolved, too, how it will be handled if this law is colluded with other legal solutions. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed one amendment – if the provisions of other laws are contrary to this law regarding the right to access information of public importance, to apply the provisions of this law. In practice, public authorities avoid providing information seekers with access to information, by calling for the confidentiality of data or proof of justified or established interest, and by referring to a whole series of laws (Police Act, Tax Procedure Act, Tax Administration Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Law of Infringement, Law on Criminal Procedure, Law on Criminal Procedure, Law on Administrative Procedure, etc.), very often unwarranted. Other laws, which restrict access to information, cannot regulate this matter, if there is already a law that regulates this area. The fact is that this position is also represented by the Commissioner for Information in the light of its second-degree solutions, which is confirmed by the Serbian Supreme Court in its case-law, so we hope that you will respect and accept this amendment. The proposal also amends Article 28 which regulates the obligation and enforcement of the trustee's solution. Under the current law, the execution of solutions and the credentials of the Trustees, in case of need, is provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the new one, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the event of a need, provides for the execution of the trustee's solution and may, I would point out, be closer to determining how the solution should be executed. We must point out that since this law has been in force, the government has not fulfilled its obligation under this article and has not ensured that the decisions of the Commissioners refused to comply. I ask the question - what circumstances have changed, what new mechanisms have been introduced so that the government is simply forced to act differently? The government, which had just encouraged the law to be broken by its inaction, i.e. ignoring the law. In doing so, not only the law, but also the Constitution, that is, the constitutional obligation for citizens to be informed. Is that why someone in the government had consequences, or is this the kind of behavior sanctioned? No, I don't. It is precisely this data that casts a shadow of the claims that this makes the process of executing the trustee's solution more clear. According to the Proposer, in the reasoning of Article 7, the law stipulates that, in any case, under its constitutional and legal powers, the Government, in the context of its constitutional and legal powers, is closer to setting out the way in which the trustee's solution is executed. However, the change says the government can; so, the government can, but it doesn't have to. Let me remind you, this is exactly what the Commissioner has consistently pointed out and asked the government to resolve it, either by its own rules of procedure, or by some new sublegal act. However, it has not been done, it is not in the proposal. The proposal has been defined by the Government to regulate the enforcement procedure. So the law entrusted the government with caring for the execution of the trustee's solution. However, to remind you once again, Minister, it is the Government that ignored this law and if you are trying to convince us and the public that this intervention should remove the current problem regarding the execution of the trustee's solution, I think it is a mistake. On the other hand, there is this other fact that this problem will not solve any law if the government, or ministers who make it, does not change their position that the law must be respected, that it applies to everything, that no institution is excluded from it, and that it cannot be the government that, in personal opinion, will make decisions on which information can be made. Since 2005, since this law was applied, none of these problems have been solved. In some ways, it is illusory that you again convince us that this very legal solution, namely these amendments and the additions of the Law, will bring order into this area and enable it to be applied more effectively. Similar persuasions, to remind you, were when the law was passed. The public also criticised Article 38, i.e. that the authorised person in public authorities who acted on a request for free access to information of public importance is not protected. Instead of accepting these suggestions based on what was going on in practice, the government introduces only some cosmetic changes, without essentials. Ministers, an authorised person, or employees of public authorities, in order to exercise the right of the public to know, to be protected and cannot be called to account for the detection of corruption or other illegal activities. These are just some remarks, my colleagues will talk about another. These are, about, remarks that make the SRS unable to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28981	Ten minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He's not there. The word is by MP Milos Aligrudic, who is also not present. The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28982	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a large number of problematic provisions in the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data that will in practice be a major obstacle to the protection of confidentiality of information from the interest of the state, and in particular that these provisions will in practice be very harmful to the state of Serbia. On some of those provisions, I have certain objections that I want to talk about. I'd like to start with Article 8. As regards Article 2(8), which regulates the security verification and its essence, as well as the procedure which, prior to issuing a secret information authorisation, is carried out by the competent authority in order to collect data on possible security risks and interference with regard to the reliability of access to classified information, how will it be done when the authorised contact the competent authority in order to collect data of security significance? Is the competent authority in any case the only authority that will give or will not give data by assessing a certain degree of risk? For example, if you are asking for classified information from the BIA or military security, so these authorities refuse to give information, is it a final decision, against which no appeal can be filed, or even to initiate an administrative dispute? This provision does not guarantee the exercise of certain rights of our citizens who are normised and prescribed in Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to point out, when it comes to judicial authorities, and given the practice so far, that, apart from being freed by BIA from keeping state secrets to the judicial authorities before which certain proceedings were conducted, those who have been accused and who have called for the documents of the Republic of Serbia and the military authorities, these data have been denied, particularly in criminal offences against the people and the state and against the national security of the Republic of Serbia. There have been such cases that these data have not been supplied by the BIA and the military authorities, putting citizens in an unequal position and jeopardising their right. As for Article 9, Serbia has been active in co-operation with The Hague tribunal for several years, and to the most extent, this co-operation concerns the delivery of classified information to The Hague tribunal, which strips the state secret and official secrets. Serbia's government has delivered hundreds of thousands of pages to The Hague tribunal, and above all secret BIA and military security data, as well as the foreign ministry of the intelligence department. I am rightfully asking whether this has caused adverse consequences, by issuing such documentation that bears the designation of state secret, top secret or military secret? Surely there are harmful consequences for national security and the protection of the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. This is the responsibility of the current authority, which gave secret information of interest to the state lightly and without sufficient state responsibility and control to the Hague Prosecutor's Office and to the court. Now the Hague tribunal and the court do not know what to do with these documents and what compositions they will need to return eventually, if they have the will. I doubt our country with this law will protect its national interests. How, then, will the consequences result? As regards Article 2 of point 12, it is prescribed that the security risk is a real possibility of breaching the security of classified information. This provision that speaks of security risk is unclear and does not contain all the elements that would mark that risk. This provision is casual because there is no valid explanation that would regulate its application in practice. There is no sharp limit and distinction with other provisions of the law, which will in practice allow for a number of abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is particularly indicated to you, many will appeal to the generally known discretionary right that exists, so they will say, "I deny this information, I appeal to discretion and do not have to deliver it." However, state authorities are obliged, under certain laws, not only by this law, to provide certain data, primarily to the court and the citizens, and to other institutions of this state. As regards Article 6, the storage and use of classified information, here the precise and clearly prescribed time-limiting of the storage of classified data and their use after the termination of the function or working relationship. It should be borne in mind that there is no legal assumption that this provision has to be applied retroactively. But here it must be in mind and the fact that people who have left or will leave office, as well as everywhere in the world, are also talking to the public through memoirs, writing certain facts about events, seen through history. This law will make it impossible for these people to publish certain data that have historical significance, and the legislator wants and seeks to keep those data secret. For example, so far it has been a secret, and it has been, who killed the Minister of Defence of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Pavel Bulatovic. The secret is who killed Ranko Panic in the Republic Square in 2008. Well, if in a few years that murder was still unexposed, and one of the officials who were or were in the leading places in the MUP, BIA, or someone from the government, were going to leave the post, would the person who killed Ranko Panic, who killed Pavol Bulatovic be held accountable by this law? As for Article 8 – information that can be classified as secrets – this is indeed unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. As for the title of this article, its definition is inaccurate and clearly undefined. In my opinion, any information that should be classified as classified is inadmissible to define how this member defined it. This is about a definition that speaks of what information can, be careful, please, define as a secret. It should be said here that every information that contains the elements and becomes a secret must be a secret, and not – can. And you leave it at the will of individuals, that they decide whether or not they can. The secret information, for example, will be for someone to open an affair or to cover it up. According to the proposed definition, the word ‘can’ must be replaced by the word ‘must’. Article 12 – specific cases of identification and designation of classified information. As far as the provisions of this article are concerned, there are a number of possibilities for the abuse of certain persons, special types and special functions. For example, let's connect two informations, according to this article, which are not secret and connect them in whole and say, well, now they represent a secret. What's this? What does this look like? For example, a minister’s wife may have, as our people say, an intimate relationship with, for example, the third secretary of a foreign embassy. So this is about information that's secret only for the wife and minister, as well as the third secretary of the embassy, but someone in the BIA can also declare it a state secret. That's how I understand the provisions of Article 12 of this bill. I can talk about these kinds of abuses of this member by tomorrow, if there's time. So it could be a state secret who took the money from Cyprus and where the money ended, who spent the money, whether the money was split, in what amount and where it was. Will the government, who disclosed this information, declare this a state secret? Marking foreign classified information is a particular problem. Here it is unclear what document this refers to, is it the one obtained by operational work (I am an old operative in this business, I can tell you) of our services or some international exchange between our bodies and the authorities of foreign states? But for the state of Serbia, there will be no secret foreign country that we have come to in any way, if Serbia's bombing is being prepared, as we have recently experienced. The publication of this information, which represents a secret for the foreign state as an aggressor, has the utmost importance for the state of Serbia and its citizens, that timely protection against the aggressors, as well as that by acting and affecting the aggressor through international institutions, it prevents aggression and prevents secret negotiations with potential aggressors, such as Tudjman, Mesic, Kucan, Izetbegovic and some NGOs. That is why I believe that the secret information presented to the foreign state as a secret, which refers to the secret information and intentions of foreign intelligence services and aggression on the Republic of Serbia, cannot be a secret. And there will be many abuses here. As for Article 26 - impeachment of secrecy in the public interest, the SRS considers that there should be no double standards in practice. I am particularly pointing out this because so far, the national secret codes for the purposes of the UN tribunal have been removed lightly. We don't have the exact details of who, when and what kind of data he handed over, and perhaps sold to foreign intelligence services. In particular, it is a possibility when changing high-ranking officials in state institutions, who are otherwise obliged to keep the state and military secrets as an eye in their heads, not to sink and sink secret documents from the past and present, who will first sell and hand over. In particular, I must point out that the president of the SRS was unable to obtain much of the information provided to the Hague court and the tribunal's prosecution of the UN tribunal, which has disabled Professor Vojislav Seselj's right to use the evidence used by the UN prosecutor's office. In most cases, it is a false and falsified document, deprived Seselj of the basic defence right and the right to be delivered simultaneously to The Hague tribunal. I would also point out that against Dr Vojislav Seselj, the Serbian tribunal, a number of false and falsified documents have been delivered, under which the court will not be able to establish any decision, condemning, in relation to Vojislav Seselj, because international law, and ours and parallel in general, does not accept false evidence and counterfeits. In the case against Dr Vojislav Seselj, there are a number of documents that are forgeries and are mostly false. As regards the provision of Article 38 – Right to approval without security clearance – this is a scandal! Do you know that the judge for the offenses, who imposes a penalty for a violation of the one who spit in the street, has the right to access the state's secret? Madam Minister, you've had no experience, that you've worked in security structures, no civil or military, no public or state, but I have to tell you, when you read this list right now, especially I have to point out, and you give the assessment of whether whoever prepared this has three puppies in his head, will he protect the state in this way? This is what the dilettantes pushed you for. You're an educated woman, you're a lawyer, but I don't know if you've arrived from a number of obligations, to see to whom all the classified information can be delivered. Those data can be delivered, but without prior operational security clearance. I agree that this can be delivered to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Assembly, the President of the Cassation Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the Special Prosecutor, the Protector of the Citizens, but I do not understand how you propose to be delivered to a number of judges of the Constitutional Court, only to the President of the Constitutional Court. Where did you put the Chief of Staff? You put the Chief of Staff at the end. You know you have thousands of judges, municipal, senior, district courts, which we currently have. You have a number of prosecutors, you have a number of deputies. You have countless of those faces that can access the data without security clearance. This is absolutely inadmissible. Article 38 is a disaster. Here you're about to let them go after you and tell you that even a coffee cook or maid have the right to deliver that data without checking. These are data of special interest to the state. This isn't the law on wine and brandy, this isn't the law on hunting and fishing. I expect the state security service, now the BIA, and the military security institutions and the internal affairs authorities, who carry out public security tasks, to oppose the application of these provisions, to protect the state in a better way and not allow the lepers to come and that jujujah, Kurt and Murta can benefit from this law as it suits him. It's not clear who's proposing this bill, except it's formally written here. Who wrote this proposal? Madam Minister, this is where a team who worked to prepare this bill, this proposal, had to come and get the BIA people to sit down, to sit down, to sit down, from a military security facility, and to give us answers. I'm not sure if they're top experts, which we have in the BIA, and in the MUP, and in the military security facility... The best security services in Europe had a former state. We have decades of experience in this area. I can't talk now because I've taken time from my colleagues, but I have to tell you that this law represents a disaster, especially for those people who think about how to protect the state and its territory and the national interests of the state. There's no one in Bangladesh either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28983	The time of the parliamentary group used is 17 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a folk MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when something hidden is manifested to the visible, then it should be known to the public, as well as to the other MPs. Based on this whole discussion, an analysis of this law can only be found to be a matter of intent, perhaps a malicious attempt, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to introduce a new, fourth service of security or an agency beyond the Constitution and applicable laws. For all those who like to have agents in Serbia and everything they say, at a small door, using non-discipline, lack of interest, ignorance and of course support of the majority in the National Assembly, this new agency or service in the supposed single security and intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia has an extremely harmless, benign name – the National Security and Security Council Office. The attempt to justify it, to repeat, past the Constitution and applicable laws, is contained in this text of the bill, particularly in Articles 24, 65, 66, 67, 79, 85, in part, in Articles 87 - 97 of this bill. It is seen here, through these members, that it is the government's intention to establish this fourth agency or security service urgently, which exists in some other members of this bill, which I do not consider characteristic. The government itself has reproduced its intention in the reasons for the law being passed, in point 4, in part in paragraph 5, which says that in the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of these laws, it is precisely used at point 2. Before I continue to explain the proposing's hidden intentions, there is also a need to comment on the past quasi-strucular debates, on which experts, experts and experts on everything. For the sake of the public, it is no surprise for the SRS, that the bill included, in addition to the minister, and top experts who respond to all kinds of round tables when it comes to such legislation, for example: Vladimir Cvian, Gordana Pavlovic, Slobodan Homen, Saša Gajin, Goran Matic and others. Here's Mickey Rakic. We are surprised only that former Minister Petrovic did not participate actively in this bill. What is essential, as far as the real intentions of the government, which we have already seen, is that they want a special agency or service under the name of the National Security Council office and the protection of classified information. We all know well, as well as Serbian citizens, and we should remind the public that the DOS government, which has been in power since 2000, has deliberately ruined the so far-sufficient intelligence system by abolishing the Information and Documentation Service, which has been working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 2000, by abolishing the BIA Intelligence Administration, which has had such tasks, as well as by shutting down a large number of military delegations in small countries, although quality and useful intelligence has come through them. The intelligence system has fallen to low branches and is seriously rocking and counterintelligence. I guess it's clear to all of us, as far as national security and defence, the military is concerned, everything has become transparent. This is what we are bound by international obligations, which we think are mostly oral; the jargon, the language of the street, that's what "I come to you" – you're a secret document, we're a piece of carrot, you're a military secret, we're a dinner for you at "Sharic". I guess all those actions that were known in the previous period haven't been forgotten yet. The proposal, as well as other laws adopted by the assembly majority without comment, does not address a number of other issues, which is how and who will protect data from the importance of Serbia's foreign affairs, as well as who will protect ambassadors and other diplomats, secret data holders. I don't want to quote Milan St. Protic, who is an ambassador to Switzerland, but knowing him, who will deny his manners in this bill. However, to return to the service, more specifically the National Security Council Office. According to the idea of the creator of the upcoming absolute dictatorship, it will represent a safety super-service that, in its function of the ruling set, will develop data from abroad, especially CIA, MI6 and others, similar, friendly and partner services, data from BIA, VBA and VOA, data from the MUP, without spilling a drop of sweat, or making any effort. As proof of all these claims, I will quote and comment on certain constitutional and legal provisions and accompanying acts. Since some MPs here have called on the Constitution as a legal basis for all the laws, I must say that it is generally known that the law that arises from some previous law by nature of things has less weight and that it is not good to regulate the same matter in a large number of laws, if it can be united, and so does these two laws. This basic Act on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia says: "In the Republic of Serbia, the establishment and operation of the Security Service is prohibited beyond the provisions of this law." I potentiate the words “in addition to the provisions of this law, ” so that everyone knows what this is about. Article 4(1): "The security services are: a security and information agency, as a special organisation, a military security agency and a military intelligence agency, as a management body within the Ministry of Defence". So we potentiate the term "agency". You can see from all of this that the fourth agency, which will control these three, is violently formed. Article 8: ‘The Government will educate the Council's National Security Office (hereinafter referred to as the Council's Office) as the Office of the Government which performs technical administrative tasks for the needs of the Council, and in particular with regard to the call and preparation of the Council's meetings; expert tasks relating to monitoring the implementation of guidelines and conclusions; the work of administrative and technical support to the Bureau for the coordination and preservation and deployment of members of the Council of Reports and other acts of the Council’. This bill of law that we have in front of us says something completely different. It says that overnight, an administrative and technical office becomes a powerful service, which will handle classified information just like that. There's a regulation that's being translated into law, and that's... The president of Serbia remembered wisely and cunningly, pulling Cvetkovic out of the story by pushing him into this whole story; he, as president of the National Security Council, allegedly has nothing to do with the office, which should prepare his material for the sessions, but is all taken over by Cvetkovic, who is a total amateur for issues in this area. All of this is beautifully written in Article 90, paragraph 6, of this bill. That's why we think it's a dangerous coincidence or dangerous ignorance, and we think it's a right, very firm, dangerous and harmfully proposed solution that will be used exclusively for other purposes. For a little while, I'll just mention some members, i.e. Irregularity. We also have a member of 87 who says: “The Council office is a government service with legal personality. ” Let me explain to you what is a legal person in this bill and in what I read – an administrative and technical office that has legal personality for control or supervision in law. This is a prerequisite for forming a security service without being a legal person. Imagine the analogy: to write in the future Law on the National Assembly that the secretary of the National Assembly, along with the service of the National Assembly, controls and oversees the MPs, the laws adopted and their implementation. According to that analogy, it's a parallel right of power. If the Council's office can, why not have the right and service of the National Assembly, along with all the secretary? The proof that we have a service is that they, under Article 66 of Section 1 and Article 80(2), are processing security data, which means that the service, however, is lazy, because others are working for them, has classified information obtained by the operational means of these three services. In order not to waste time, Article 88(1) refers to the preparation for the arrest and pursuit of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, which is certainly the enforcement of international obligations. Article 88(1) of point 3 says all security information obtained from abroad is in their possession. Then it's not foreign protected data anymore, it's ours. In Article 88, point 5, 6), 7) and 8) speak the general known facts, which are the general security measures carried out in the jurisdiction of BIA, VBA and VOA, which means that they again have the authority of the service. So Article 88(1) of point 9 says that records of security-like, positive checks and securely non-recorded, negative checks... They've already got this security record. In order not to quote all the members, I have to mention Article 90 of Position 6 which says, "The Director of the Council's Office is responsible to the Government and the Prime Minister." This rule applies to the directors of existing security services, so it's logical that this rule, which is proof that they're not different at all and that it's a new service. The promoter forgot that, according to that secondary, invalid law on the foundations of security services in the Republic of Serbia, the Office of the Council of the National Security Council, which already has its president and secretary in charge of this office. Speaking of the director of the Council's office, we have knowledge from The Hague (by the way, you know that our president is the best known to numerous areas, the most informed living Serb) that Goran Matic, director of the Council's office, may be a decent and educated man, but that he has not celebrated himself in safety or right. After all, he is also a participant in the drafting of this national bill. What's worth mentioning are some points where other norms should be deleted. Article 3, in which we have proposed that some standards be deleted, is that from the moment the Government of the Republic of Serbia comes into possession of the secret information of the foreign or international organisation, it becomes domestic and is no longer foreign. If the reasons for the adoption of the law are considered, the second point can be explained that the relic of the past is the division of data based on the state authorities in which they were created. According to that logic, if the information was made in a foreign state and it was declared a secret, it was a place of origin, not its contents in the procedure. Then it doesn't stand what's written in the reasons. What is still worth mentioning is the point 1) of Article 2, which is - each. Not every piece of information, for instance, from the domain of human rights and freedom to represent a secret. Whoever followed a public debate on the draft of this law could see that all artificially created parties were exclusively dealing with a problem that would have the right, and to whom it would be denied, to read classified information. We are convinced that the government, in principle, "do not know the Vlachs", has deliberately offered some ambiguous solutions in certain members, to draw the attention of the MPs and the public to the non-essential in relation to the fundamental shortcomings. That is why we believe that if anything can be read by Tadic, or Cvetkovic, or perhaps Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, let them read both Sabic and Jankovic. It's a better variant than these first ones trying to convince them. Evil will be for the State if any information from the constitutional provisions listed in point (1) of Article 1 is declared a secret. We can't say a word in the National Assembly, not on the street, not in the newspapers, and the whole state will turn into a secret, and maybe that's the proposal. What is also important is the difference between the basic provision and the general provision. The promoter does not see the difference between the two words; the word "general" is, in general, more comprehensive, and can be a fundamental part of the general. It is already a member of one proposal that confirms that the general provisions are counted, not the basic provisions. So we've written an amendment that refers to such a proposal, more specifically to that kind of change. I must also point out to you for article 7, which applies to public authorities. The language, factual, mockery used by the motionor in this proposal is contrary to the Constitution and cannot be classified in either legislative or judicial or executive power. No one has the right, especially the Minister of Justice, to violate the Constitution. However, at point 7 there are a number of illogicalities, ambiguities, and even a violation of Article 5. A constitution relating to political parties. Public authorities, whether BIA, VBA... public authorities are the holders of public authorities and their directors are, by definition, the most professional people to assess the confidentiality of data. I'd say so, but it's Secret Service. It's obvious illogicality. At this point, there is the following formula: "as well as a legal entity established by a state body or funded in general, i.e. in the principal part of the budget, which deals with classified information... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Now I'm going to give you a brief example: in some future preparations for the SRS elections, it can make an action plan that will offer citizens in the pre-election campaign a completely different solution to the problem, for example, territorial integrity, than the one imposed on them by the regime. The Serbian Radical Party keeps the plan a secret, awaiting a favourable political moment to point the people to a treasonous, say, policy by the president of the DS and his party in general. This action plan is secret until the moment of elections, and we've classified it in our documentation. However, Article 7 says that the ruling regime through its insiders finds out that we have such a document and here is Tadic, Cvetkovic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic at the door of the SRS, with a huge security and demand to access and use and read our plan. They have the right to do so under Article 37 of this proposal. Here's how far the audacity of the promoter has come. Or, for example, another example: public service, or RTS, through knowledge from its informers, data about the existence of secret agreements and signed pre-negotiations that the government will recognise Kosovo's independence. Will Tijanic publish, but wait or not to be afraid, such news or such an agreement? Once again, that three-way finds out about it and shoots, say, into Takovska Street and asks nicely – Tianić, where did that come from, who gave you the information, do you know that it's the strictest secret, and so on. This is all in the bill – that the President of the Republic, the Assembly and the Government can know everything. So that I don't take time for my colleagues, I have more information to discuss in principle... There is essentially no public authority, there is essentially no fourth military intelligence service or any kind of intelligence service. At the small door you violate the provisions of a member of the Constitution that says who can exercise power. Because of all this, you make and pile up an even bigger administration, so that this law that you have passed on all the surpluses to this new office, because it will say that unstructed people will do business and determine those norms and those data found by professional people. For this reason, in order not to take the time, we cannot support this bill, and we will explain everything else in the discussion in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28985	From the time of the parliamentary group, another 16 minutes and 30 seconds have been used, so that the SRS parliamentary group is available for eight minutes. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28986	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you heard, we have before us a proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. I'm very sorry that the minister left earlier, because I think we have some important objections to tell her here, and I think she can fix still this bill, which is truly tragic. I would draw attention to a series of illogicalities listed in this law. Those who wrote the law did not pay enough attention, so they left the possibility that, for example, persons serving in foreign armies, as well as persons who were in foreign paramilitary formations, had access to documents classified as "confidential" or "internal". More than that, in this law, persons acting contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia are allowed to see the documentation which is classified as "truly confidential", "confidential" or "internal". Therefore, only they are not allowed access to documents that have the designation "state secret". It's just amazing! Later, if I have time, I'll explain it. It is true that this law effectively introduces a "super chief" of intelligence services. So you set off with one principle that started George Bush after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In fact, the man who will be head of the Council's office is given the authority of the director of the BIA, even wider. It's just amazing! So, this is very bad for the security system in the Republic of Serbia, we will have a duplicate in the security services and a major problem, but it will strengthen the executive power, strengthen the party police you create by this law, and the citizens of Serbia will have growing and bigger problems. With this amendment to the government that you cited and said you were erasing article 40, you haven't improved this bill at all, you've just blurred your eyes. Let's see, then, in specific things. When it comes to the degree of secrecy, you predicted, as I said, that the documents were classified as "state secret", "truly confidential", "confidential" and "internal". You have also assumed a certain classification from abroad, which is characteristic exclusively of the Republic of Albania and the United States. That's a member of your 15th. Here I have a list of classified documents of most European countries, which is publicly published, and this classification is only applied in Albania and the United States; therefore, it processes other Western countries. When it comes to Article 16, you foresee the sustainability of documents marked with a state secret. For example, you predicted 30 years. I will give you a simple example from practice: when Professor Smilja Avramov asked for some documentation of a historical person in the archives of London and the archives of Rome, the state archives, she was told that these data had been banned for hundreds of years. This historical figure was Joseph Broz Tito, and the head of the Roman State Archives told her that if he gave that information, he would be guilty of breaking Yugoslavia. That's when the war didn't break out. After the break of Yugoslavia, Prof. Dr. Smilja Avramov returned to the Roman archives, however, she failed to obtain the documentation then. You had to define this much better. Article 32 – under 10) you mention the measures of crypto-protection, therefore, without any details. This is really strange, given that in some foreign countries there are entire institutes dealing with crypto-protection. That's not even in our line of work. We're practically in the stone age, as far as crypto-protection is concerned. You can look at Professor Trifony's books on the subject, go ahead. The famous Article 40, beware of what you provided for in Article 40 – you provided that the Director of the Council office has no insight into certain documentation, but you left out his deputy, so it turns out that the Deputy Director has the right to see the documentation, which he can't see, to review, or the Director of the Office himself. It is proof that unprofessional people participated in the assembly of this law. What's the next problem? The problem is, in Articles 42 and other members who treat foreign documentation, in the following: our country is its official decisions, i.e. The government has allowed the UN tribunal in The Hague to have direct, direct and general insight into all the state archives of the Republic of Serbia. Such powers do not have the government of the Republic of Serbia. You even delivered us a document detailing that. You really don't watch what you're doing. The government of the Republic of Serbia provided peoples with information on the implementation of the National Integration Programme - NPI Serbia in the EU on 10 October 2008. Among other things, it states: "The tribunal's prosecution in The Hague has so far provided hundreds of thousands of documents", here as if it were stones, without precise data, or potatoes, "including confidential documents from the Supreme Defence Council session, the Ministry of Defence, state security agencies, the MUP and other bodies. Since mid-2006, the tribunal's prosecution has had a general and direct insight into all archives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. “ You are free from the law on the confidentiality of information when the tribunal's prosecution can have absolute insight into all the state archives of the Republic of Serbia, the Government, Parliament, Security Information Agency, the Military Security Agency, any other. What's further said in the same document? "The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far freed the preservation of state, official and military secrets of over 500 military, police and other witnesses. In this area of co-operation, Serbia provides effective assistance to the tribunal's prosecutors in finding and taking statements from witnesses and suspects. “ Here you also violate the rule of equality of arms, the rule of equality of parties in criminal proceedings, because if you leave this information and this opportunity to the tribunal’s prosecution in The Hague, the question is why can’t the defence count on these matters? You directly admit that this violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, violates international conventions, violates the right to a fair trial. So, foreigners in this country can have general and complete insight into all state archives, but therefore introduce appropriate restrictions for Serbian citizens. They need to pass security checks. It's okay to have security checks pass, but be careful, for a special security check, you've predicted, as an additional element, to check whether the person seeking insight into the work's documentation is contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. You did not provide this for the documentation marked “truly confidential”, “internal” and “confidential”. This is article 54 of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28987	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28988	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28989	Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic is not present. In that case, the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, so before the joint principled search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 93 want the word. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If any of the presidents or representatives want a word, please register with the electronic system so that they can exercise their right to the Rules of Procedure. If not, I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. I'm setting a break, finishing my morning work. The paper continues at 14.20 hours of debate in principle, on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-28-0.u28990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move on to a joint principle search of 9 - 11 items of the agenda – PROPOSALS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAWS ON COUNTRIES AND TERMS ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE MEXIMAL NUMBER OF PUBLISHERS IN THE REPUBLIC AND LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE I hereby inform myself that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, called for the presence of Vesna Kovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Milica Drazic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Igor Vukanski, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dejan Radulovic of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Željko Curguz, senior adviser at the Republic Secretariat of Law. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint review of the draft agenda laws under points 9, 10 and 11, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be the Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 46 seconds; the Manjina Parliament group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that by this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group, the MPs will be: Parliament MP Milisav Petronijevic – MEP Group SPS-JS, MP Zoran Shami – Parliamentary Group DSS, MP Miroslav Marinković – MEP ZES. In accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic Administration and the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the local administration. Since there are no proposing representatives, we won't be working any further today. I'll let you know when we get back to work. I'd like to inform you that tomorrow, according to the notices you received at 10:00 p.m., we'll have a day to respond to the current topic. Thank you.
