ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25120	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, are questions for the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health. First, due to the different interpretation of the new Food Safety Act, which entered into force on 10 June, Sanitary and Veterinary Inspection in Belgrade for over a month does not control easily corrupt foods, such as meat, dairy products, eggs, ice cream and other, by transferring it to each other's responsibility that it is the jurisdiction of this, not those inspections. I'm asking -- when are these two ministries going to establish regular and quality control of these easily corrupt foods that can cause severe health effects? Secondly, almost all manufacturers of packed milk and other products declare abnormally long deadlines of use, so these products are not for use even though the time limit for use is sometimes another 10 to 15 days. In person, I had to throw out a yogurt that was due on August 5th, and now it's not for use. What measures are being taken not to do this because citizens are forced to throw before the deadline of such unusable products, are being exposed to damages and unnecessary costs?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25121	The word is made by MP Riza Halimi, authorised representative of the Group of Minority MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25122	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first I will ask Minister Dacic, Minister of Police. In addition to the very high concentration of military and police forces, incidents similar to or even worse than the last two incidents in the past two weeks occur very often in Presevo and Bujanovac. The more indicative, most of these incidents remain unexposed. Four years ago, a woman from the nearby village of Turija was killed on the Bujanovac - Gjilane road near Končula. On February 16th, in the center of Presevo, we had a similar explosion that occurred the other day at the Presevo train station. Two months ago, on the exact 23rd of May, a councilman named So Presevo and the owner of the Yusuf Azizi gas station were killed in the yard of his house. As you can see, there have been far more severe and tragic incidents in this area, without attracting the attention of the top state leaders, like these two latest incidents. In the present situation, it is necessary for Minister Dacic to explain why all these serious incidents remain unexposed. The question is when will these crimes finally be prosecuted? It is certain that the lighting of these incidents does not contribute to the search of the houses of members of the former Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje, and these searches have been carried out with a massive use of the members of Gendarmeria, but also with unargued charges which are officially brought to their account. They're repeating the last case, because it's known that on June 26th, there's been an indictment against a certain number, I think there's 16 defendants, so to speak. Gjilan groups. It'll give the exact list of names and last names and data. It was done after six months of investigation. As it is officially said, it was six months of preparation. We had a chance to hear that list expand these days in Vranj. From Minister Ivica Dacic. The question now is whether it's okay after a whole so thorough preparation that took almost a year to expand at a press conference at once. This then puts additional pressure on former members of the demobilised OVPMB, who received amnesty through a decision by the Federal Assembly. This then contributes to their migration from Presevo and Bujanovac to Gjilane or Pristina. This is absolutely without arguments, I mean even at some point in the day, affecting the warming and raising of political temperature. In my view, it is very important that now and the relevant state authorities, of course, take all the necessary measures to safeguard public order and peace in this area, but with the law of the envisaged procedure. I think it's absolutely harmful to politicize, and now I'm asking again who: using these politicizations and improvisations instead of the law of the envisaged procedures?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25123	The word has an MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25124	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the first question is for the President of Parliament. Why have television broadcasts of afternoon meetings of the National Assembly been virtually abolished lately, at a time when citizens can only practically follow the meetings of the National Assembly? Is that, like, a little door-to-door shut-down of television transmissions? Why did RTS buy the rights to carry the Tur de France cycling race? That's nice, and I respect Lance Armstrong, and Contador, and Valverd, and I follow the cycling races. But with this strategy, this way, RTS will buy television rights for – cricket, polo, dog races, competitions of stone from the shoulders. It will turn out that all of this is more important than television transmissions of parliaments, on whose agenda are extremely important laws in the field of information, justice, education, health care, environmentalism, etc. who make life decisions about the existence of many people in this country. It is, therefore, practically about the abolition of television broadcasts, i.e. the re-seeking of answers to the question from Minister of Economy and Regional Development or Minister of General Practice Mladjan Dinkic. Privatisation of "First Spark" Baric and crime in this regard. It's about crime. I call and seek at the same time the reply of Minister Dacic, who is the truth for one of the few ministers who has also answered the questions asked and acted on the questions asked – is practically the only one who has done so. The illustration works, one of the first spark drive, Baric privatized and bought a man who was sentenced to seven years in prison. Where's Mrs. Ginich? When all these privatisations are over, she's nowhere to be found. I ask Minister Dacic to deal with the privatisation of "First Spark" Baric and to address the responsibility of the people of the Privatisation Agency. Another example is the privatisation of the Bora Markovic Wood Industry, and thousands of people live on it, and you know who bought it – a man who was recently arrested as a member of this mob, I don't know what the name of this mob is, for sand and gravel? He turned the wood industry into gravel and it all healed into thorns and weeds. There I also ask for an answer, although in some ways he responded to it by Minister Dacic. These people, like characters from Laza Lazarevic's parable, "All these people will gold", wander from the merciless to the unloved, there is no answer – everything is stolen, everything is robbed and it is privatisation in the way of the Privatisation Agency and Mladjan Dinkic. The third question is for the Minister of Ecology. There's been another incident at the C.E.F.T.F. At the mouth. Suddenly, as if people lived in the Sahara, the ashes rose, there was a solar eclipse in broad daylight, and I got the answer – that the values were within the limits of normal, and the ashes entered the freezers. People at this temperature of 30 degrees and above are closing in houses, beautiful tape windows, they don't know what to do anymore. I'm looking for an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25125	The word has been issued by MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25126	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, because we hope the transfer is in place at the moment. I ask that I receive a notice from the Ministry of Agriculture, that is, from the Minister of Agriculture, because the last time he was here in the Assembly, we all saw together that he was so little combative when he had to face the MPs, I would also recommend that he be so combative in defending the rights of peasants. our farmers and also to help them to fight as he fought for his views and opinions here, and then the next day, he apologized to New Serbia President Velimir Ilic. What is my question, and why am I asking for a notice to be sent to me and I insist that it be done within the legal period, and not as some ministers, after a few months when the topics or issues that the MPs here are asking and initiating may not even be current anymore? But the question of peasants and farmers is current in this country because, fortunately, we are still a hilly country in the Balkans of farmers and peasants, and it seems to be the only economic branch left to us, with which we can go out to Europe, I think, fortunately, above all, with healthy food. What's this about? I would also like to remind all of you, especially farmers, that this year, when the Serbian state budget was adopted, an amendment to the NS parliamentary group was accepted and in the budget section of which it reads - the Ministry of Agriculture, a billion dinars of funds were allocated for the purchase of agricultural products and for the purchase of agricultural machinery, particularly tractors, primarily for young farmers, at subsidized prices. I want notices from the Minister of Agriculture, what did he do with those billions of dinars? How many agricultural machinery, i.e., first of all, tractors, are thus domesticated to rural households, or how many of these tractors have been bought by our farmers, and what about the purchase of agricultural products? We've been witnessing these days, and the raspberries aren't finished yet, that farmers are people in despair, that they don't know where they're going and what they're going to do, that the ransom price of wheat at this point is 9 dinars, and that's the first class. So what did the Minister of Agriculture do with those billions of dinars? I repeat, I am proud that it has been adopted by the amendment of the NS parliamentary group. He needs to prove that, not for political reasons, someone has accepted the amendment, but that it is truly sincere to carry it out in action, that what happens these days, what the minister does, so-called. Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in the daytime, paints with tractors, looking forward to our poor farmers, signs contracts, and in the evening the same tractors load on trucks and return. Therefore, our man, especially a farmer, is used to working and suffering, but he will hardly suffer fraud and laughter in the face. So, I insist on that and I tell all farmers who are preparing for protests these days: remember, gentlemen, I say with pride, gentlemen of peasants and farmers, you've been feeding this people for years and saving this country from hunger, there's money in the budget for what you're looking for. Ask the Minister of Agriculture, he's in the budget. So the NS amendment was adopted, the money exists in the agricultural product purchase budget and the subsidized sale of agricultural machinery, primarily tractors. Not to mention that there's a double benefit for the engine and tractor industry to somehow rise and not remind all of you here that the average age of our tractor is over 15 years. So, I'm ordering once again to farmers who, unfortunately, as far as I hear, have to fight how many new protests are being prepared tomorrow: in the budget, gentlemen farmers, there are resources separate for these demands. Your demands must be met not only because of your individual interest, but because of the interest of all citizens of Serbia, in order for enough wheat to be sufficient bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25127	The word is by MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25128	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been more than 30 days since I asked one question to Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice, as well as to the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic. The question was - when will the Government abolish the Regulation amending the Regulation on the protection of the property of parts of the company, whose head office is located in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY? Otherwise, these persons I asked for a certain notification, within the meaning of Article 235(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were obliged to give me a notice within 15 days. So the deadline's over, and the answer hasn't arrived. There's supposed to be a regulation reform, one so-called. A regulatory reform that provides for the abolition of at least 100 regulations which represent a difficult environment for business. This regulation, whose abolition I seek, i.e. I asked for a notice that the competent authorities would declare when they would be abolished, represent a daunting circumstance for the reason that at least 20 legal entities, entrepreneurs, purchased business premises on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the company Borovo, whose headquarters is located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Our legal entities cannot own these business premises that they have paid in full, concluded the prescribed sales contracts, certified them, paid taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, so they have acted entirely in terms of our positive legislation. They cannot go into possession because the temporary user does not allow them to do so, and the courts who are competent to judge simply do not carry out the proceedings do not act on claims for the transfer of possessions, according to the Government's recommendation that such proceedings should be terminated, since some procedure is under way to determine the property of our legal and natural persons in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since this is about the relationship of domestic legal entities, which is the Borelli Action Company and domestic legal entities, we see no reason why these people cannot exercise their right to take possession of their own business premises that they have bought neatly. This is how we make business difficult in the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore one regulation, i.e. several illegal regulations, against a ratified international contract. Therefore, these regulations are also unconstitutional. It is a good example that the regulations that make business in Serbia really difficult should be taught. So once again I repeat the question - when are those regulations going to be abolished?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25129	The word is made by MP Stefan Zankov, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the current session, among other things, we have a proposal for a social housing law, and I will give you an example from our immediate environment, which did not hurt the dignity of just one ordinary man, but also the dignity of the National Assembly itself, because one working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided on the fate of an employee in the Serbian Parliament. It is about Mr. Aleksandr Maksimovic and his attempt to resolve his existential question in a legitimate way after 26 years of sub-unitary life. So after this, I will direct the issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia. On 29 August 2005, an ad was published to address the housing needs of employees in the National Assembly, which Mr. Aleksandar Maksimovic also reported, with complete documentation, and enabled the proper checks to be carried out. By the logic of the matter, the proposal for the list of order of the award of dwellings had to be made within a reasonable period of time, be it in 2006 or even be awarded an apartment. But if nothing makes sense, in order for the housing person to not get an apartment, the following things happen. I'll only list those that I consider to be the most indicative. The first amendment was made to the Regulation on the criteria for the evaluation of performance and quality of work from 24 June 2005, so that the consolidated text of the Regulation is applied today from 14 February 2008. It comes down to a clean adjustment of the rules of the game to someone who was supposed to win after three years. Therefore, the Regulation is amended on 14 February, and the proposal for a list is adopted on 13 March and in the same year 2008, and according to something that is purely one discretionary assessment, I would say, results and quality of work. It's clear what the motives are. Secondly, you will see why it waited four years to reduce Mr. Aleksandr Maksimovic's five points because his daughter married. But this is completely irrelevant, it happened in the meantime, because Article 22(4). The housing needs resolution regulations say that the number of points on the championship list is determined by the state of the last day of the deadline for submission of requests for publication of the ad. So a lot of time has passed since then. Therefore, although the Regulation is more valuable in the hierarchy and school equipment than in the degree of housing, it is also not respected. I will also read to you the conclusion of the border union of the state administration of the United Union of Serbia. The conclusion of December 29, 2008 - Aleksandar Maksimovic, a National Assembly worker, has been the only real tenant for 26 years to file the relevant documentation that our union's expert team, along with a union lawyer, has considered and identified a number of irregularities. The basis is inadmissible, an amendment to the Regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of selected and staffed persons in the use of state-owned assets during the duration of the competition. From a social point of view, Alexander Maksimovic, given the years of work and life, you have denied the right to a man's life worth living. In line with the above, we ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's housing committee and the Serbian Government's housing commission to review their decision once more to overcome the problem peacefully. Also, we are seeking the responsibility of an expert associate, Mr. Nenad Loncarevic, whose duty was to prepare and deliver all necessary documentation to the commission. So it's not normal for the assembly commission, probably under someone's pressure, to delay four years' process, and it's clear that the government's commission has made a series of irregularities. I ask you, how do these things happen in other institutions, when all this is happening before the eyes of all the MPs? So much more so that in 2005 the representatives of the parliamentary groups agreed with the then secretary of the Assembly reached a gentlemen's agreement that none of the MPs applied for the apartment, because there is a man who is a tenant then 23, now 26, 27 years old. This behaviour by the government's commission, Mr Maximovic, moved to the second place in the ranking list, with only two points less than the first-placed one. That's why I said what I said from the beginning of the show. That is why we need a law on the National Assembly that will draw the Assembly out of the government's tutorship, and you in this social housing law just form some new agencies, and you don't care about ordinary people. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the extreme line, because its commission has made a final decision to plead on this case which I am sure is not alone, and should primarily take care of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25131	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25132	Members of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milosavljevic, to a large number of our questions, practically to the majority, which we ask on Tuesdays and Thursdays, we have not received an answer. That's why I'm particularly pleased that you're here to represent or defend against the government the laws on justice, as Minister of Economic Affairs of the Government, as my question concerns the economy right now. It is known that the budget is the most important law to be passed over the course of one year. It is known to be brought at the end of December, and this year, with the reason for the global economic crisis, we adopted a rebalancing in late April. According to the rebalance, the revenues are 650 billion, expenditures of 720 billion, and that difference is also called the deficit in the agreement, the one known as the IMF, it is limited to 70 billion for the whole of 2009. The first question is, do we even need a budget? If so, what should he do? Of course, that budget should allow everyone to receive salaries and pensions, but it's a much bigger task of that budget to point to politics and enable us, to give us indications that we're going to live a few years ahead. It's his basic task, not just to regulate the day-to-day stuff. Two and a half months after the budget was adopted, two months after the agreement was approved, we have a picture that is completely different from those projections the government proposed to the assembly in April. Incomes are drastically lower than planned, expenditures meet the plan. For the first six months, the income and expenditure gap is 45 billion. That figure may sound rather foreign to ordinary citizens, but, Mr. Colakovic, that 45 billion is a one-month pension amount, that 45 billion, the smaller the income, is a one-month budget inflow. What are you saving yourself on? The only item in six months or six and a half months that has passed since the new year to today, on which capital investments are being saved. On the one hand, you're telling us that investment in infrastructure is necessary, and on the other hand the budget only walks that item. All other items are filled with 100 percent, one is an item -- capital expenditures filled with 20%. How does the government run economic policy, and how does this hole close? It closes by borrowing. Only for the first six months has 68 billion been broadcast through the broadcast state records. What are the costs of this type of borrowing? One month's interest on this debt alone is about 700 to 800 billion dinars. Is that a little or a lot? It is one ten times larger than the savings the Assembly could make, it is the annual budget of Prokuplja, it is the annual budget of Ruma, Bora and many other cities in Serbia. Just one month for interest on state records, we're paying the one-year budget of all these cities. There's another problem. The government should be in charge of the Budget Act only 70 billion. At this point, the auction is another state record show. The budget law may already be broken today, because if the auction is successful, then the funds will go far beyond what the Assembly approved, if not today, then on Tuesday. Two days ago, we adopted a debate about one law that allowed ten billion more to be borrowed. When we asked the Assembly to discuss the strategy of coming out of the crisis and reform, we were told that this was not necessary. But it is clear that any further borrowing risks the future of this country. I'm asking two questions to the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, and I assume you'll pass them on to him. The first question is, is it possible that the government would break the Budget Law and be in debt under the law? The second question is - when will Mr Cvetkovic finally get the strength to come to the Assembly and open a serious debate here on the future of this country, with the topic of exit strategies and Serbia's reform strategy?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25133	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25134	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, almost all the media in Serbia last night and this morning announced that the Serbian government gave a biometric passport to EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn. Immediately after the passport was handed over, Olli Rehn said he was dead cold that Kosovo is part of a Western Balkans region that has a European future and that the EU will define a programme for Kosovo's political and economic development in the autumn to speed up Kosovo's integration into the EU. The man absolutely did not mention in any word the Serbian Constitution, Resolution 1244, as well as the fact that KIM and the Constitution of Serbia and the above-mentioned Security Council resolution are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the government of Serbia and the MUP - on what legal basis is Olli Rehn, a man who is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but is a citizen, if I am not mistaken, Finland, a man who openly tramples Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, a man who has in due course supported NATO's aggression against the SRJ, so how is it possible for such a man to receive a passport from the RS? In Article 3. The travel documents law states that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to travel under the conditions prescribed by this law. A citizen of the Republic of Serbia may only have one travel document of the same kind and the travel document may only be used by a person whose name is issued. In Article 24. The travel documents law, in paragraph 3, states that the travel document form contains a space for the entry of the following data of the holder and of the document: last name and name, day, month and year of birth, place and country of birth, gender, citizenship and JMBG, foreign countries in which they live for persons without residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Under what legal law did Ollie Rehn receive the passport of the Republic of Serbia, and does this government have limits in humiliating Serbia, the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? If you gave the passport yesterday to Ollie Ren, what prevented you from giving the passport and Ramush Haradinaj, and Thaci, and Stjepan Mesic, and Clinton, and Blair and all those villains who committed directly during the 1990s, ordered or encouraged to commit crimes against the Serbian people. Just to remind you, gentlemen of the government, a few days ago, Stjepan Mesic, dead again, told Austria that Serbia must be decovised. Croatian television broadcasts a direct concert of Mark Perkovic-Thompson on Sunday, which watched the whole of Vojvodina, and I believe a good part of Belgrade, probably also people in Macva, about Serbs in Croatia, and the Serbian government is absolutely doing nothing. How can a passport be given to a man who does not recognise the territorial integrity of the state whose passport he has won? How is it possible that President Boris Tadic agrees with the fact that the Schengen visa regime will not apply to citizens of Serbia living on KIM? Yesterday, Boris Tadic said the responsibility for the situation at KIM has been assumed by the international community. It doesn't mean anything. They've taken over the UN. Then he said -- you know, we couldn't talk to the EULEX representatives at KIM. And in what article, in what position does Resolution 1244 mention Eulex and his responsibility for the situation at KIM? It is quite clear that by giving the passport to Olli Rehn, a man who does not recognise Serbia's territorial integrity, today at KIM, tomorrow in Vojvodina or in another part of Serbia, is insinuating and embarrassing Serbia's state. This is evidence more that Boris Tadic indirectly agreed that KIM in international relations is not being treated as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and this is more proof that the KiM is definitely a story for you. I repeat the question once again, I would like to ask the Serbian Government and the Ministry of the Interior (President: Five minutes). To explain how it's possible that an unrecognized passport has been issued to Ollie Reno?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25135	Would any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Zeljko Tomic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for the sittings, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Snezana Malović, justice ministers, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance and Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF SARADNJI WITH AN INTERNATIONAL CRIME COURT (individual) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic, Nenad Konstavić, Božidar Delić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Babić, Saša Maksimović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Antic, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Gojko Radić, Milica Radović, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petković, Miloš Aligrudić, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Mirko Mužić, Milorad Buha, Boris Aleksić, Verica Rade, Sreto Perić, Momar Marković, Dusan Marić, Petar Jojić, Dejan Mirović and Gordan Pop-Lazić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, and since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 142(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. Given that it is one of the laws discussed by the Assembly in the framework of the joint principle debate, I remind you that representatives for 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda are representatives of the National MP Đuro Perić for the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Petar Petrovic for the SPS-JS, MP Milica Radovic for the DSS Parliament Group, MP Snezana Sedlar-Kenig for Parliament Group G 17 plus, MP Jorganka Tabakovic for the parliamentary group Progress Serbia, MP Srdjan Spasojevic for the parliamentary group New Serbia, MP Vlatko Ratkovic for the parliamentary group ZES, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic for the parliamentary group LDP, MP Aleksandar Martinovic for the SRS. I remind you that the decision on a joint principled search has brought together and the time for discussion in particular on quoted agenda points, which means that each president or authorised representative of the parliamentary group has 15 minutes, that each parliamentary group has time for a specified Rules of Procedure, and each applicant for the amendment has two minutes. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25136	Madam Chairman, I would like to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if possible. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, advertised member 104. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. I cannot agree that such important laws from the set of justice, as well as co-operation with the International Criminal Court, are being defended here, in front of the government today, by Minister of Trade Slobodan Milosavljevic. I'm very...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25137	Excuse me, MP. Unintentional mistake of mine. Please register again. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25138	I have nothing personal against Mr Milosavljevic, who is present here today, but the MPs today are not able to discuss the details properly because not so rarely the minister of justice, very correctly, Mrs Malovic, accepted the amendments even though the government did not accept the sitting itself. I think that today we will be denied such a possibility, because I don't know how or how we'll be able to convince the Minister of Trade for some of the amendments. You see, when it happens in football, I'm going to give an example of a goalie getting a red card, and I'm not saying that Mrs. Malovic wasn't accidentally prevented, or for certain reasons to come here, naked in that situation is going to be a football player, changing his uniform, which can best defend the goal at that time. If the situation is already that Ms. Malovic is not there, it was entirely justified and perhaps acceptable for Mr. Milan Markovic to come here to defend this law, but such a change and such, that the Minister of Trade defends a set of judicial laws is indeed inappropriate. Just today here in the Assembly we are looking forward to some things, calling on us, some amendments are very correctly accepted, some fundamental amendments, such as, say, the new institute that introduces a plea agreement. The government has accepted and moved the deadline from 10 to 12 years for the situation. Now I can really think that maybe the Minister of Trade is there, since it's going to be one compromise between the prosecutor and the court and the defendant, that he's here today for this one institute today. So don't put us in such a position to have one serious debate (President: Two minutes). We start this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25139	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. You have the right to your position and your views on individual ministers, but the course of the session takes place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In its decision, the Government shall send a representative, proposing, and in no way shall the Government be harmed during the debate, whether it is in principle or in particular, nor may it be the subject of any infringement of the Rules of Procedure. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25140	Injury of the Rules of Procedure again, if I may. Mrs. Komic, this is not at all about any opposition that Mr. Milosavljevic is personally here, but at the session when we asked the prime minister questions directly yet, so in advance, the prime minister asked that competent ministers attend the meeting, and Mr. Prime Minister promised that the future would be so. Therefore, it is not respected in this situation. So, a month ago I warned about these things and the prime minister promised that things like this would never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25141	National MP, you are required to specify which member of the Rules of Procedure is concerned and you are required to explain what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure you point to. At present, the right to the word, which you have received, is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask you that there is no point in the criticism you refer to ministers being dull or mild, but to refrain from pre-scribing someone as incompetent. At that moment, the present minister, as a proponent and by the government's decision present at this session, shows incompetence, of course you'll be free to say so. I find it inappropriate for you to refer to such courts in advance about the minister or anyone else and without argument. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25142	I'll also speak for 15 minutes from the MP's group. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts this first law that is in order, on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, then it will practically be the fourth international court to which the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to co-operation. Let me remind you of these other dishes. The International Court of Justice in The Hague, whose establishment and ingenuity is certainly undeniable, and whose decisions we have already met, and which we expect soon to adopt its position on the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija and the legitimacy of the recognition of such independence by individual states. The next is the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, addressed by citizens of various states, including citizens of Serbia, when they cannot protect their rights from domestic courts. Just to point out that there are hundreds of cases in front of this court of our citizens, which is certainly not an honor to our judiciary. Certainly the most controversial institution is the International Tribunal in The Hague, as an ad hoc institution established to investigate and punish crimes in the former SFRY and Rwanda. Everything about this institution is controversial, and the way it is set up, and the way it functions and finance, and its statutes and other rules, which the court itself makes for itself, changes according to its needs, and even changes the provisions depending on who individual accused persons are. The work of this court freak was well felt by all Serbian citizens, especially by a large number of accused and convicted persons from Serbia's territory, as well as Serbs from other Serbian states from former SFRY territory. It is clear to everyone today in Serbia that this is not a court of justice, but a political court that processes primarily Serbs, changes historical facts, cloudes the essence of the conflict in our premises and protects world powers, primarily the US and Germany, which broke the former SFRY and committed the most serious crime, a crime against peace. Even you, whose mouth is full of Europe, who uncritically accept all the conditions and blackmails that stand in your way, accept the fact of the political background of that court. Today, a further approach to Europe is conditioned by Serbia's assessment of co-operation with the same, and your raving and humble courtship of even ordinary court officials of that criminal court is causing the disgust of most Serbian citizens. As the ruling structure of this country, you have almost completely trampled the dignity of this country and the pride of its citizens. Your service to that court and your race to pardon the new Serb heads has been unremembered in all history of Serbia. Your obligations only reach that far, only to the delivery of Serbian heads. What happens next and what happens in that court is no longer your concern. That the trials represent ordinary lardy, especially when it comes to other or other peoples, here's to mention what you all know, Fatmir Limaj, Ramush Haradinaj, Sefer Halilovic or Naser Oric, it only causes the immediate mild reaction of Serbian officials who are primarily directed towards internal political needs and their own voters. None of the Serbian officials are worried about 12 Serbian Hague coffins, no one is considering three complete sets of Serb executives in The Hague. On the other hand, the accused from other nations are ordinary criminals or possibly military commanders who have become generals in the war, who before that were common thieves, mercenaries or criminals. No one in Serbia is concerned that they are all accused and sentenced in The Hague, which, or is not given adequate medical attention, and often there is no reaction to the obvious mistreatment of individual indictees. That doesn't concern anyone in Serbia. However, from that whole group of Serbian officials, I would like to single out one man, Mr. Minister Ljajic, who has expressed as much concern for these inadequacies and their families. Our officials are racing in promises to deliver another Serbian head and fulfill those executioner commitments. Although I think as a man, as a citizen, as a witness who spent a hundred days in that court freak, then I certainly believe that Serbia should have this law, a law on co-operation with the International Court, because by forming that court, there would be no such a freak Hague ad hoc tribunal. It is not a disputed statute, the so-called Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which was adopted in Rome on 17 July 1998, which our country otherwise ratified by the Law confirming the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in 2001. The dispute is what we have ahead of us and what's called the law of co-operation with the International Criminal Court. Did it really take eight years since we ratified this statute to make one such proposal? If you were able, dear colleagues, to read the law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal and compare it with this bill, then you can conclude that Resavska School is still in fashion in Serbia and that our bitter experience with the ad hoc tribunal almost had no impact on those who wrote this law. There are a lot of controversial moments in it, indiscretions that can be seen at first reading, as well as, I feel free to say one assessment, that it was written by more politicians than lawyers. Although the need for this court is completely undeniable, the constitutional basis for its adoption found in Articles 97 and 16. The RS constitution is at least discriminatory. In several members of this bill, there is uncertainty and uncertainty. Take, for example, Section 7. in Article 2. And through this law, it continues to practice that our government is taking on powers that do not belong to it at all, and that is evident in Article 5(1), which could conclude that the promoter does not understand the importance of this court. The question arises where is this congregation? The assembly has a time to choose a local prosecutor or judge, but when it comes to selecting someone who will represent and represent the state in that international court, and then there is no Assembly, there is no authority, that's what the government takes over. This goes on through the article as well. In the 36th and 37th, and in my opinion, it discredits the government as the legislator of this law and speaks most of all about the Secretary of Justice, in this case of the Minister of Justice, and an ugly conclusion can be drawn as far as the Government and ministers respect both the prices of this Parliament and our MPs, regardless of whether we are from the ruling work or from the opposition. That the legal profession did not dominate the drafting of this law, but politics, can be seen in Article 6, where it is completely unnecessary, in paragraph 3, in the generalisation of the state authorities itself includes Interpol by the International Criminal Court. It's completely unnecessary and it's a humiliation to our state bodies. That's just saying that competent lawyers were in second place. There's been a lot of talk about Interpol lately, especially when it comes to our warrants for proven killers from former SFRY space, so it's surprising that some or some of the ministers are in love with this institution. When you read an article. 8 and 9 certainly come into doubt, for the attitudes of one member when compared to the attitudes of the other require deep reflection. And in other members of this law there are unnecessary indiscretions and inaccuracies. It is a wonder that, in addition to the so many negative experiences we have had with The Hague tribunal, in Article 26. The proposal for this law did not find any provision that the health status of the accused could be an obstacle to his surrender to the International Criminal Court, i.e. to ensure that the latter is prosecuted before the domestic court. It was certainly necessary to define more clearly the levels of decision-making in the 1st and 2nd stages of the surrender of the defendant to the International Criminal Court. If it is clear, and this is seen in Article 22(3), that the first-degree procedure is in charge of the Belgrade District Court, and for the second-degree procedure, it can be interpreted differently, in my opinion it could only be the Supreme Court of Cassation, or at the moment the Supreme Court of Serbia, then all of this could have been more precise and better regulated. Article 27, which speaks of an appeal against a solution to the surrender of the International Criminal Court, is also needlessly complicated and gives the impression that the proposal is still under the influence and pressures that took place in the surrender of the latest indictee to The Hague tribunal, former Republika Srpska President Radovan Karadzic. The impression is that a mediocre legal student or a better law student would write this article better. The Serbian Progressive Party has delivered a number of amendments. As far as I was able to read, a total of 37 amendments were sent by MPs, but only seven amendments were adopted by the Government, it is possible that nine, I counted seven, some of which are purely technical, and only two to three amendments are essential. It is entirely justified that some of my colleagues asked, that there should still be a more competent minister in the hall, who could, after all, explain what our individual amendments mean and to what extent one such law that is needed for Serbia for the abovementioned reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25143	11 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Bozidar Delic is an amendment promoter, so he has two amendments, 14 minutes and 12 seconds. Anyone else want a word? National MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DHSS, I will support the draft of this law, because its adoption is coming out of the bewitched maze of ad hoc international criminal courts or tribunals and all those objections to which it is rightly indicated when the UN tribunal is in this way in fact being removed. I have to remind myself of the genealogy of international criminal courts and the fact that so far there has been no permanent international criminal court. First, for the trial of Nazi war criminals, an ad hoc court was formed, or the Tribunal in Nuremberg, and for Japanese war criminals in Tokyo, so Russell's committee was formed for Vietnam, so for war crimes at the premises of former Yugoslavia and Rwanda in The Hague, and the formation of an ad hoc crime committee in Somalia is under way. The International Criminal Court practically adopted the Law on the Confirmation of the Rome Statute in 2001. He's acquired the right of citizenship in this country. Now it's just the procedure that's being regulated. The advantage is the permanent International Criminal Court or the Roman Court, as is often called, which is not only a material part, which is mostly regulated by Geneva Conventions on the Protection of War Victims, but also the procedural part will now be regulated definitely. All the tribunals I mentioned had different procedures. Special rules were passed, and then there was a lot of chaos. There was no standard procedural regulation of regulatory action before these tribunals. Now it's going to be a case. All those legitimate reserves that many MPs, many public figures and political parties have shown to The Hague tribunal, which often had political aroma, political colour and often present selectivity, demonstrating selective justice, will now be removed. With regard to the procedure pending by this law, there are certain standards that have been adopted by the countries which have joined this court, ratifying the Rome Statute. There are certain standards in action, and I believe that the proposer stuck to those standards when he proposed solutions that figure in this law. I can say that it may be more comprehensive for a representative of the Republic of Serbia to appoint a parliament on a proposal from the Government, not for the government, because we know how the government works on that principle to pull out the tail. The question is where is Mladjan Dinkic, so that at some point he does not blackmail the government, that he appoints our representative in the congregations of the member states of the International Criminal Court, probably subconsciously fearing the court as well. A joke aside, I think it should be decided by parliament. Otherwise, on the occasion of a future debate before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, I strongly suggested that perhaps the president of the Republic of Serbia be the mediator of a joint session of parliament and government, which would include representatives of universities, religious communities, the Academy of Science, the Serbian community with the KIM and our experts who will represent us before the International Court of Justice, that we simply hear ourselves, not entering the legal fines that experts will advocate before the International Court of Justice, but because of something that will be added to some political parties tomorrow to object to the good intentions of our representatives in the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25145	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS considers that in Article 4(4). The draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court after the word "emergency" should be added to the words "respecting the legal order of the Republic of Serbia". In her opinion, which she delivered to the MPs, the Serbian government said the amendment should not be accepted because it implies that all state authorities are obliged to respect the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. This government finding is formally correct. Indeed, all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to respect its legal order, but the problem is that this is not happening in practice. At the beginning of this debate, an NS counterpart advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pointing to the fact that he is attended by a minister who is not in charge. I don't think so. And that I believe that trade is the best time to explain what is written in this law and that the Minister of Trade is absolutely competent. The state of Serbia has been trading live people since 2001, starting with the shameful delivery of Slobodan Milosevic to Vidovdan The Hague tribunal, before it was passed the Law on Co-operation with The Hague in 2002 and at the time of the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly prescribed that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia could not be extradited to anyone, to any foreign state, to an international organisation, to ad hoc, to a permanent court, etc. Since 2001, in the Republic of Serbia, unseen trafficking has been done in living people, people for whom someone in the United States and the EU has estimated to be responsible for the actual or imaginary crimes that have occurred or have not occurred at all in the premises of the former SFRY. So, I really respect a colleague of the NS, he's a great lawyer, and he always has a good legal argument. I think he made a mistake this time and that if one minister is to attend the debate under this bill, then it's an absolute trade minister. Because, and this law, if adopted, it will only legalise trade in living Serbian meat that has been going on in an illegal, semi-legislative manner since 2001. So, the SRS believes that when it comes to co-operation with foreign states and international organisations, this co-operation, if it is realized, can only be achieved by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia achieving the co-operation in a scale with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. It is a norm that exists in all laws relating to the international ties of the Republic of Serbia and it is really unclear why the Serbian government has been distracted by this finding. One of the most recent evidence that for state authorities, the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and is not as sacred as the government says is the case since yesterday, or since last night, when the Serbian government handed over a biometric passport to Serbian-provided Olli Rehn, who practically does not recognise the sovereignty of the state whose passport he won. It's laughing in the face of Serbian citizens. It's laughing in the face of all those Serbs who stayed to live on KIM, more or less in the concentration camp regime. It is a laugh in the face of all those Serbs and other non-Albanian ethnic communities with KIM who have been expelled since 1999. It is, at last, laughing in the face of all the victims of the 1999 NATO aggression, because Olli Rehn, otherwise a great fan of human rights and freedom, has all-outly supported NATO's aggression against the SRJ, which has taken about three thousand human lives. If any amendment made sense to propose on this bill, then it is an amendment that state authorities in co-operation with the International Criminal Court are absolutely obliged to respect the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I just want to remind the government's representatives, who I apologize to if I disturb them with their chitchat, that in 2006, in The Hague, Slobodan Milosevic was literally killed in 2006, because the UN tribunal did not provide him with adequate treatment. In 2006, virtually ahead of the loss of life was probably the most famous Hague indictee Vojislav Seselj, who had to strike hunger to force The Hague tribunal to respect basic human and procedural rights, which modern criminal law recognises every man found in criminal proceedings, regardless of his nation, religion, race, political belonging, regardless of the weight of the work that is being put on him. We'll talk about the rest of the unexplained and clarified murders and the loss of human lives in The Hague tribunal later. By the way, Vojislav Seselj was threatened with death in the fall of last year when there was a real danger of being imposed on him by a defender he didn't want. Vojislav Seselj then made it clear that he was ready to strike again with hunger if he was imposed by a defender contrary to his will, given that Vojislav Seselj had been in The Hague for seven years, in view of the year of his life and bearing in mind the impaired state of health in The Hague tribunal. So, the same scenario as Slobodan Milosevic's. The second hunger strike for Vojislav Seselj would probably be fatal and would end with a fatal outcome. So, I call upon you, gentlemen of the government, although I see no minister here, nor one who trades men, nor one who will only do so if you adopt this law. Adopt this amendment because all state authorities are obliged to respect the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, both in internal relations and in relations with foreign states and international organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25147	You have used five minutes and 15 seconds of the time you have available as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, i.e. 15 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25148	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand the essence of this amendment, I will read you Article 5. Proposal for this law: "The Republic of Serbia is represented before the International Court by a person who has the necessary expertise and professional experience, which is determined by the government's decision." My amendment, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia is represented before the International Criminal Court by a person who has the necessary expertise and professional experience, which is appointed by the Serbian Parliament and on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia". This is related to what I said in my first address -- that lately the government has often taken for itself the ingenuity that doesn't belong to it. Certainly, the judiciary is one of the main pillars of the state and in this assembly the only authorities or the only service we, as MPs, are judges and prosecutors. If we are already deciding for judges and prosecutors, who are being placed at local, county or other levels in the Republic of Serbia, then why does this assembly have no authority when it is to appoint a representative who is supposed to be practically represented in front of that international court? My opinion is that this amendment should have been adopted anyway, but in the end it was the government's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25149	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, then the amendment was submitted to Article 5 of Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The government has accepted the amendment. We don't have a report from both committees, so he didn't become an integral part of the bill. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Krasic has proposed an amended formulation of Article 5 and his opinion: "The person representing the Republic of Serbia before the International Criminal Court should have at least 10 years of experience in the area of criminal law." The SRS believes this solution is indeed comprehensive and justified because the state of Serbia must not allow it to represent at the International Criminal Court or any other international instance at least who. It must, however, be a qualified person who knows the area of criminal law and who will best be able to protect the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, let me remind you government gentlemen of one fact, which is once again evidence to which power humiliates citizens of Serbia and to what extent it is non-chalantly related when it comes to national and state interests. Serbia's official before the International Court of Justice is Tibor Varadi, a man who is a proven agent of Cije, a man who has been openly working against the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people since 1990, and to make the matter the worst, is a man who is on the list of Croatian state arbitrationists, so on the list of the arbitrationists of the Republic of Croatia. So, when Croatia has an international dispute one day, when an arbitration court is educated, it has the right to delegate a number of arbitration judges, on that list of arbitration judges, including Tibor Varadi. Now imagine how Tibor Varadi will represent the interests of the state of Serbia, when he is on the list of arbitarians of the state responsible for the mass killings and persecutions of Serbs, when he is on the list of states whose president clearly orders Serbia to be silent, who is prevented by Olli Rehn and who knows what else, which clearly tells Serbia that it must be decovised. So this amendment makes absolutely sense. If you do not want some new Serbian defenders like Tibor Varadi to appear before the International Criminal Court, then you would indeed have to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25151	Two minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Take time from the parliamentary group. ) So, from the time of the parliamentary group, the MP used two minutes and 30 seconds. The amendment in question has been accepted. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25152	In Article 6: "State authorities officially generalise with the International Criminal Tribunal in Serbian", I am looking for "and a Cyrillic letter", or in one of the official languages of the International Criminal Court, with a translation into Serbian language", I am requesting an amendment to 'and a Cyrillic letter. ''In an explanation of not accepting the amendments, the Government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason it considers that the official use of language and letters in the Republic of Serbia is governed by both the Constitution and the special law. Exactly, that's why I'm asking this amendment to enter the proposed text of the law. The amendment is fully in accordance with Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are officially used in the Republic of Serbia. Under two, the amendment is in line with many UN projects declaring preservation of cultural and linguistic traditions, preservation of national heritage, etc. Isn't that what a Cyrillic letter is for Serbia? It sure is. If so, why not install it in the proposed Article 6(1) of this Act. However, your short-sightedness on the hard road to the EU is full of humiliation, demeaning, acceptance of blackmail, acceptance of directives, instructions, etc. The shortness of the path to the EU is indeed a serious disease - you have no real pathways. It is said that for shortsightedness and a scarecrow it is a signpost, so look a little further and accept this amendment. Just another minute from the MP's group, if that's all right? We in the SRS really raise our voice against such phenomena, against the relationship of subjectiveness and condescending, raise our voice as Branislav Nusic did in 1887 against similar phenomena at the time, writing famous lyrics, which led him to do time. I'm sorry Minister Milosavljevic isn't here. We found that he was competent as a minister of trade, he would certainly be competent as a poet's soul to understand and understand what I'm about to say now, these lyrics that Branislav Nusic wrote and which say, "Serbian children who think you know, from this lesson you have; in Serbia, opportunities are such, babes of fame, despise heroes; therefore you don't bother for nothing, Serbian children become grandmothers." How much similarity to what's going on today and what you've been doing to us after 122 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25153	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, he has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment the sent by Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. There is a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(3) and have requested the removal of the position of the 3rd member. The reason is that the SRS's view that the official generalisation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court must take place under strictly formalised conditions. We must not allow arbitration, because any arbitration will result in adverse consequences for the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the government did not accept this amendment, as explained in recital 3 above, that in justified conditions, for emergency reasons, there may be indirect or direct co-operation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and Interpol, with the ministry informed. By not accepting this, I think that you have made a huge mistake, you have caused adverse consequences for the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, because the International Criminal Court will judge the most serious crimes and this excludes the urgency and justifiable reasons that are normally put forward by international institutions, international judicial institutions, and every speed, every urgency leads to adverse consequences. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have done enormous damage to previous co-operation with international judicial institutions. It's your practice. That is why we have asked for this amendment that you have refused and I think you have done enormous damage to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25155	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25156	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you can see, we have submitted several amendments to Article 6 which is related to the official rule of law with the International Criminal Court. We believe that there are several problems, and above all, the problem is urgent. So the government of the Republic of Serbia intends to do everything in its power to speed up, even to be quick to co-operate with the International Criminal Court. This is a very wrong approach, precisely for the reasons my colleagues spoke of, because in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, the most serious crimes under international law, including genocide and war crimes, including crimes against humanity, but including the crime of aggression. The crime of aggression is more severe than any of these counts. Unfortunately, he is not in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, because the smart Western strategists, I can say and the insidious, deliberately abandoned the definition of the crime of aggression from the Statute of the International Criminal Court. They said the statutes would change when they found the proper definition of crime aggression. This is pointless for the simple reason that the crime of aggression has been defined by the UN General Assembly Resolution of 1974, containing points (a) to (f), it has been mentioned since the Kellogg-Brian Pact, also mentioned in the Nuremberg Charter, and in the Tokyo Charter, so this explanation is pointless. The government of the Republic of Serbia must work to determine responsibility for the crime of aggression, because, I remind you, it is a crime of aggression and the crackdown of the SFRY committed by the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Vatican, and according to claims by such intellectuals and geopoliticals, such as General Pierre Marie Galloa, who has made a major force since the Second World War of France with his doctrine of strategic deterrence. Also numerous of our experts, such as Professor Smilje Avaramov, etc. Let's go back and explain some important things. The SRS is the only party against co-operation with The Hague tribunal and that is the fact. As you know, all those who agree to EU dictatorships must also agree to that dictate of co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague. So, the EU has made it clear that it will not integrate Serbia and Kosovo, which it looks apart from Serbia, unless it co-operates with The Hague tribunal. We are against co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague because the co-operation is contrary to the UN Charter, and we are as a member of the UN organisation obliged to respect the UN Charter. As you know, the UN tribunal in The Hague was founded as the assistant body of the Security Council in 93, although the court cannot be an auxiliary body, although the Security Council is founded by a commission, committee or rapporteur for special matters. The court cannot be brought under any of these three categories. If one of the too smart pro-Western lawyers said that the tribunal in The Hague was founded in accordance with the UN Charter of Peace and Security, I must remind you that the court cannot form for the sake of peace and security, but for the purpose of establishing individual criminal responsibility. But even so, even if he was formed for the sake of preserving peace and security, that is. I will remind you that peace was established in 1995 by signing the Dayton Agreement. So, as you can see, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the tribunal in The Hague, is one organisation politically opposed to the UN Charter and it vegets in international law against the fundamental principles of international law. I see that some people here have said that the International Criminal Court Statute is acceptable to them and that the tribunal in The Hague has no positive opinion. On the official website of the International Criminal Court, in the part of the legal document and the basic document, you can see that it calls for the tribunal's practice in The Hague, the Rwandan tribunal. You can also see that he has a special item for Kosovo's national legislation or in a literal translation of Kosovo's state legislation. So, that's nice, we're understretched. Under the article, they offered several sources of rights from Kosovo, which they consider an independent state. Among other things, it is the Ethics Code of Judges in Kosovo. So we are also against the extradition of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the International Criminal Court for this very reason. They follow the legal practice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, The Hague tribunal, and they treat Kosovo on their site as an independent state, as an entity of international law and international relations. That's why we believe our country must not cooperate with this court. If we take into account this story I told about the crime of aggression, consider that the International Criminal Court is applying liquids, i.e. It is likely to apply the UN tribunal's assets in The Hague, such as the joint criminal enterprise, and this can also be seen from an analysis of their leading lawyers, also published on the International Criminal Court's official website, which supports the concept, so-called. the joint criminal enterprise, and through the broad interpretation of Article 25 of the International Criminal Court Statute, it is indeed quite clear. The international criminal court has become a slow extension of the tribunal in The Hague and its narcissistic practices. Let me remind you, let's say, that the tribunal in The Hague in the indictment against the former Serbian-SRJ president stated that Serbs in Kosovo were creating Greater Serbia in 1389. So imagine that idiocy of Judge of The Hague. As far as the joint criminal enterprise is concerned, I will remind only that it is a radical concept that represents the introduction of collective criminal responsibility, according to numerous lawyers from both the West and the East, including Professor Allen Dershovic, professor of Harvard, professor of Stanford Jenny Martinez and Professor William Shasbas, who is a professor at several universities in the US and Ireland, who is otherwise a supporter of the Tribunal in The Hague, but who openly says that the third category of joint criminal enterprise is the concept of collective criminal responsibility. So he also violates the UN Charter, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights, in general this concept of collective criminal responsibility, collective punishment violates fundamental human rights. The joint criminal enterprise is a concept that has been applied since 2001, pay good attention, so eight years since the creation of the UN tribunal in The Hague. Eight years did not apply, and then when Judge Muhammad Shahabudin appeared, as chairman of the appeal council in proceedings against Duško Tadic, they accepted one such indictment. So, eight years since the tribunal's work in The Hague, they've invented a new crime. It is an open violation of human rights and the most fundamental norms of international law. From that moment on, according to data from Stanford University of the United States and Berkeley University, also from the United States, by 2004, 84% of the indictments are based on the concept of a joint criminal enterprise. The tribunal's UN prosecutors in The Hague informally call the concept a "silver bullet" against Serbs. So they treat Serbs like beasts. Once again, I remind you that this is exactly the legal practice of the International Criminal Court. This is one of the reasons why we are against the extradition of our citizens to the International Criminal Court and for which we are the only party against co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25157	You've used eight minutes since the MP's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic? Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, I am truly of the opinion that representatives of the Justice Ministry, as competent and professional enough, especially with regard to objections to Article 6 of this law, which you see as being in this size and by the Serbian Progressive Party, need once more to consider and see further changes and additions to Article 6 which deals with official generalisation with the International Criminal Court. The obligations that we, as a sovereign state, have signed regarding the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, have resulted in the obligation to implement that international contract in our legal system and there is no particular doubt about it. Even in an explanation of individual solutions, primarily from Articles 1 to 10, do not specify at any time what you are referring to in Articles 3 and 4 and that is controversial. It is disputed that state authorities can officially rule with the International Criminal Court for all of these reasons as you have stated, but there is no urgency, no reason to do so through the International Criminal Police Organisation, i.e. Interpol, and especially in Article 4, which will explain my colleague Babic, means that the ministry can carry out its official communications diplomatically. There is also a situation where the position of Article 6(3) and Article 6, in part, is in contradiction with each other and given the objections that are most strongly expressed to Article 6, I once again appeal to your expertise to take these arguments and to try again, given the proposed amendments to all MPs relating to Article 6, to accept certain remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25159	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. This amendment provides for the removal of Articles 4 to 6 of this proposal. This position is contrary to Articles 2 and 3 of this proposal, but also to Article 87. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, in which paragraph 1 clearly states: "The request shall be forwarded by diplomatic means or in another appropriate manner which the Member State has provided for by ratification, acceptance, or declaration of consent to the document on the establishment of the court and to the statute of the court". So, diplomatically or otherwise, and not in any case diplomatically, as you predicted by this attitude 4. On the other hand, Articles 2 and 3 held that the official generalisation of state authorities and the International Criminal Court takes place through diplomatic channels, but for reasons of urgency and through Interpol, and then the legislator, this burdensome position 4, defines the ministry's generalisation, as if the ministry were not a state body, as if it were a ministry above Serbia's state. And I'd also like to express my skepticism that communication for the reasons of urgency goes intermediately to Interpol for one simple reason. Both Hashim Thaci and Agim Ceku, based on demands from the Republika Srpska judiciary, were raised with red Interpol warrants. Those persons were detained on several occasions, Thaci was brought to Hungary, and Agim Ceku, Slovenia, Hungary, Colombia, and for the last time in Bulgaria. However, despite proven crimes against Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM, these persons have not been delivered to Serbia today. That is why I call on you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25161	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radeta was submitted. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25162	The public of Serbia, and above all the legal public, should know that we are today discussing a set of criminal law laws that lead us into the full Americanization of our legal system. As much as you, ladies and gentlemen of the assembly's majority, were in a hurry to take a vacation, it is unacceptable for us today to discuss these bill proposals, and when it comes to amendments, we are discussing in the absence of a minister of justice, actually in the absence of all ministers, because there is no one here today. Dear fellow lawyers, who may be following the work of this Parliament, if you think that some of our amendments should become an integral part of the law, I must inform you that this is impossible because there is no Mrs Malovic here today, who is, the media has so informed us, in America. I guess she went there to boast that we in Serbia, or the government of Serbia, are more Catholic than the Pope. I'm seriously afraid of her coming back, because every time Mrs. Malovic comes back from the white world, she comes here with some opinion that she's well dictated there, and then it's another blow to the justice system, to the judges, to the prosecutors. If I don't come back now, there will be an opportunity to talk about how many judges and prosecutors will be left without a job, how much part of Serbia without legal protection, but now the subject of the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court and I think it is good to remind that this statute, the Roman Statute, have not yet ratified the United States and have no intention, because they protect their war criminals, and those from Guantanamo, and those from Iraq, and those from Afghanistan, but that is why everyone else who is obedient, are forced to extradite their citizens, their heroes, their heroes, as Serbia has done for a decade. To remind us that without legal basis and without law, the government of Zoran Djindjic delivered Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, that Milosevic had died there, that he had been killed in The Hague and that it was therefore indirectly responsible for the DOS government, that the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Djindjic had personally asked Carla del Ponte to take Vojislav Seselj to The Hague and that he would not return him for absolute political reasons, because it was unbearable for him to have such a political opponent on the political scene of Serbia. As it is unbearable today to Boris Tadic, so he does everything and has done a lot of things so far that Vojislav Seselj is not at large. That's what we've been talking about and talking about all these years, and intensively since September last year, and it's already clear to everyone in Serbia what's been going on and who's here and how is responsible. What do we have when it comes to the state of Serbia and the relationship with the International Criminal Court, and this so-called. ad hoc court, tribunal? We have the shame and shame of the authorities who showed up yesterday, we saw in the media that the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal that the life sentence for Milan Lukic was, as they said, adequate for the crime committed. It is amazing that someone who represents the state of Serbia can realize that a representative of this people has indeed committed some crime before it becomes a judicial verdict, even if it is such, both anti-Serbian and anti-civilisation, and whatever you want the UN tribunal to do. Much less commented on Haradinaj's acquittal and almost acquittal oric's verdict, especially after a crackdown on Brammertz's fingers over statements they tried to make as the real representatives of Serbia's state. Now they seem to stay away from it, but completely open all those who are also completely open and hidden against Serbia, against the citizens of Serbia and against the interests of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. This amendment I have submitted should be adopted and probably, since Minister Malovic is in Washington, was not able to say in an electronic session of the government that this amendment has been adopted, as it is inappropriate that in one regulation, one legal norm states that the ministry can in any case require that the official generalisation with the International Criminal Court takes a diplomatic course. A team before the second position of this member states that the official generalisation of the state authorities and the International Criminal Court is taking a diplomatic course. A completely unnecessary norm, but unfortunately, so maybe a little less talk about these specific norms, because it would be an empty story, since ministry gentlemen can only listen to us and admire us, but they don't have the opportunity to accept what we're offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25163	Four minutes and 25 seconds were used from the time available to the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS respects the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and firmly opposes the Americanisation and tribunalisation of the legal order in Serbia. Mr. Homen, you are not called Minister of Trade, you have often been called postman, for the reason that Postman Ćirić forwarded that notice to you, and you have forwarded to the acting president of the Supreme Court. I must tell you, since you are one or only man sitting here on behalf of the government, that the title above article 7 has defined its content. And what the SRS did with my amendment that I signed proposed to delete, it had to be done that way. The title is - The application of the law of the Republic of Serbia, and the first position says that the competent state authorities in the process of co-operation with the International Criminal Court are taking action in a manner prescribed by law and other regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Paragraph 2 reads: The provisions of this law and other rules applicable in the process of co-operation with the International Criminal Court are interpreted in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Here comes the point, and you add '' in a way that meets the objectives, in terms of the statutes. 'We know exactly what Article 194 and 195 says. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a precise and clear way, determines the relationship of legal acts in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and is not possible to add anything, not more or less, to this. If we were to engage in something that is beautiful in our language now, and we could determine that the statute cannot have any goal that suits it, you and me as natural persons can answer something, objects hardly be able to meet these goals that you have foreseen, but it's worth asking here and I think it's very important and another question -- why is this law on the agenda today, and the Law confirming the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court was passed in 2001? We in the SRS recognize what's been waiting for eight years. For the reasons you are well aware that the UN tribunal is more incomparably bloodthirsty for the citizens of Serbia than it will be this one. And when it seems to you that you may have cleared up with your enemies, and your enemies, DOS enemies, DS, are the citizens of Serbia who are determined to oppose everything that is directed against the Republic of Serbia. I will say only two, I apologize to many others, first of all Dr Vojislav Seselj and Slobodan Milosevic certainly deserve their names to be singled out, of course the other Serbs who are there, so when you seem to have an end there, then this International Criminal Court can. We suspect that the Special Court working in Serbia will be no less dangerous to the citizens of Serbia, those who love Serbia most and regret nothing at all to give for it, nothing less dangerous than the UN tribunal itself, and this International Criminal Court. If you had the authority, I suppose based on what may not be the essence, but it's much more correct, you would accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25165	Two minutes and 55 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25166	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the absent Mr. Minister, I will not spend much time explaining this bill, nor on the explanation of the amendments we have brought to it, for the reason we believe that our state has already taken the obligation of co-operation with the International Criminal Court to bring justice to the perpetrators of a crime against humanity, genocide and war crimes. This Rome Statute itself must be incorporated into our internal criminal law and this bill makes it seem so. We have submitted amendments, we have not submitted much, as you have had the opportunity to see, but they have been submitted with one sole intention: that the inaccurate provisions he has in the bill are defined in a clear way, so that those who apply these provisions of the law would not come into a situation to be confused, i.e. to make their work under the application of this bill easier. This is exactly what we do in Article 8, where we consider it to be classical pleonism, when it is said that the same criminal offence in the Republic of Serbia cannot be committed or prosecuted, if the offence is already being conducted before the International Criminal Court. In our opinion, there should be a point here. The words "which were launched before the criminal proceedings in the Republic of Serbia" are completely unnecessary and thus lead to the delusion of one who is to apply such a provision of the law. Even between us DSS MPs there has been some disagreement regarding the interpretation of this provision precisely because of its inaccuracy. I think this amendment should have been accepted. He's not essential, he's more of a legal-technical character. In order not to report again, I will use, if you consider this to be the case, a debate over the amendment to Article 9 which we have submitted and which has been accepted. I think it is very good that this amendment has been accepted, for the reason that Article 9(3)'s position envisioned an impossible situation. He predicted the situation if it moves from itself very consistent, how can I say, consistent application of Article 8, or the principle of 'no bis in i go', then this situation, which is foreseen by Article 9, Article 3, in practice, could never happen. Namely, it comes from having two strong verdicts, a court ruling in the Republic of Serbia and a strong verdict of the International Criminal Court, and if we go from consistent application of the 'no bis and go' rule, then it is understood that two proceedings against the same person cannot be conducted at the same time. It is a situation which is practically impossible and I am glad that the representatives of the Ministry have seen this failure and have accepted the amendment. On the other hand, I join my colleagues who have expressed disdain over the fact that today's debate is not attended by a competent minister. We also believe that Mr Milosavljevic is not a person, with all due respect to his, with whom we can interact today, nor are we in a position to expect anything about possible acceptance of any other amendments. That's why we won't object, we won't be making any damage to the Rules of Procedure because of his current absence. We think it is exactly the same whether Mr. Milosavljevic is present or not, when he is unable to simply talk to us in a quality and reasoned way today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25167	Since the time available as the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, two minutes have been used. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25168	As part of this amendment, we want to point out, our parliamentary group, that we are in the debate on extremely important laws that are on the agenda today, making an effort to remove what we think is a fundamental problem in a series of procedural laws that are the main topic of this debate. Serbia's public needs to know that a large number of procedural laws are being discussed. These procedural laws have a task, and this is a procedural law, to provide for the best possible procedure to come to justice, to determine the factual situation and to achieve judicial truth and justice. I want to express my opinion that I have delivered during the principle debate. I think that a set of these laws is passed in an atmosphere created by the government itself, based on a statement of the lightly promised speed of settlement of court disputes and the resolution of even criminal cases. And at such a lightly promised speed, when you try to translate it into the standards that should be realized at that speed, these are the problems that we have pointed out in Article 8 of this Law. This Article 8 not only has this pleonasm, but it also opens up a kind of legal void because it does not regulate the situation when proceedings in the Republic of Serbia would be initiated before the International Criminal Court takes place. Will proceedings before the International Criminal Court be initiated in this situation, when the proceedings are launched and conducted in the Republic of Serbia? This situation is not regulated by this law, it appears as a legal void, and in this sense I also appeal to the representatives of the ministry, particularly the Secretary of State, to pay attention to these amendments to the DSS parliamentary groups. They're exclusively in order, if you look at how they're normized, repairing the text of the law. Of course, in agreement with our concept, that it cannot be quickly determined by judicial truth, determines the fact of the situation and achieves justice at the very end of the line. Because regardless of whether someone is suspected or accused, there is something that is said to be legal certainty and that he has the right to a fair procedure and to allow all procedural means to be made true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25169	Two minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25170	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have filed on behalf of the SRS is on the line of advocating the SRS for the most serious crimes, such as crime against peace, crime against humanity, war crimes, etc., procedures are being initiated and led to courts in Serbia. I think that the adoption of one such law, such as the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, which Serbia commits to co-operation with this institution, had to precede an analysis of the former co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with existing international legal institutions, above all I mean co-operation with the International Court of Justice and the Hague tribunal. Any serious and professional analysis would show that the results of this co-operation are humiliating and unacceptable for the Republic of Serbia, because both of these institutions, I think of the International Court of Justice and the UN tribunal, people say, are making fun of international law and justice and participating in crimes that the United States, NATO Pact and so on. The international community has been continuing over Serbia and the Serbian people for 18 years. As far as The Hague tribunal is concerned, it is already known to Serbian citizens, so in my discussion, I will talk a little more about co-operation with the less famous and among Serbian citizens less compromised by the International Court of Justice, which is also in The Hague. It is the court that is always in charge of the former Yugoslavia's war lawsuits when to sue and when to judge the state of Serbia, and never has jurisdiction when the same legal matter is to be tried by Serbia. When Serbia sues NATO for aggression and barbaric bombing, then the court says it is not competent, explaining that at the time the events took place, Serbia allegedly was not a member of the UN. The same argument rejects Serbia's lawsuits against BiH and Croatia. However, when BiH Muslims, I underline this, not the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, file a completely illegal suit against Serbia, then the court is in charge, even though Serbia was not formally a member of the UN at that time. The international and called justice court refused to judge NATO's pact for that barbaric aggression in 1999 against the SRJ, which was made contrary to the UN Charter, without the UN Security Council's approval, refused to judge 20,000 tonnes of bombs that were dropped on Serbia. Today you could read in one newspaper that certain bombs said "Do you still want to be Serbs? “ The court rejected the trial for the destroyed Serbian cities and villages, for 3,000 Serb civilians killed, among them 70 children, for 15,000 wounded, for the destruction of several tens of billions of dollars, for 300 destroyed schools and kindergartens in Serbia. The court eventually ruled Serbia was guilty of failing to prevent alleged genocide in Srebrenica, which has nothing to do with justice or common sense. First, there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Genocide is when someone plans to destroy an ethnic group with the aim of destroying its biological substance, its gene. If Serbian soldiers under Ratko Mladic's command really wanted to destroy Muslims in Srebrenica, they would, above all, destroy women and children as a reproductive part of the ethnic group and the biological most vital part of the ethnic group. Members of the Republika Srpska Army did the opposite, consistently respecting international conventions, primarily the Geneva Convention on War Prisoners, all Muslim women and children, all men who were not military bonds, totalling over 20,000 people, organized in two days, evacuated buses in Kladanj and Tuzlo, on territory controlled by the Muslim army. True, the murder of several older minors, who grew above their generation and who, unfortunately, were already recruited into the army of Naser Oric, has been reported. Third, Republika Srpska's army missed 1,500 Muslim troops from Zepa, another enclave along with Srebrenica, uninterrupted crossing into Serbia's territory. I ask a logical question, if there was an intention to commit genocide, if Muslims were poisoned, whether they would be allowed to move these soldiers to Serbia or if they were killed. Fourthly, the book "Srebrenica, aggression, resistance, betrayal, genocide", which was printed in Sarajevo, author Nijaz Masic said that about 1,500 Muslim soldiers died in the wars around Srebrenica before 1995. Although most of them were killed during an attack on nearby Serb villages, committing crimes, they too are now on the list of innocent victims of Chetnik aggression and genocide. Portuguese military official Carlos Martin Branko wrote in 1998 that with a letter and number of 2,028 Muslims from Srebrenica died in the fight against a better-trained and better-commanded Republika Srpska army, but that they were not all killed in July 1995, but mainly in three years of fierce warfare. Fifth, a total of some 3,000 Muslims from Srebrenica and the environment have been found and buried so far, including the aforementioned soldiers who died in battle before July 1995. It is interesting that both together are less than the total number of Serbs killed in Podrinj and Srebrenica. I remind you, it is 3,200 Serb soldiers and civilians killed. Nevertheless, the International Court of Justice, in a verdict on Bosnia and Herzegovina's case against Serbia, is talking about the Srebrenica genocide. It is undeniable that Serbian soldiers shot several hundred captured Muslim soldiers in the summer of 1995, it is undeniable that it is a crime that cannot be justified by anything, but it is indisputable, and every lawyer knows that there can be no word of genocide. But no minor crime committed in Podrinj is a crime of mass slaughter of the Serb population, mostly of the civilian population that these soldiers, Naser Oric, have previously committed. I remind you, in 140 to the foundations of the burned, robbed villages in Bratunc, Srebrenica and Podrinj, more than 3,200 Serbs were killed. I ask one question -- how is mass killing of Serb civilians not even a crime, and shooting Muslim soldiers is genocide. Finally, I question the government as a proponent of this law, whether there are any guarantees, any indication that the International Criminal Court will not behave in the same way that the International Court of Justice is acting and the way the UN tribunal behaves, that there will be no more weapons of the US and NATO pact and aggression on Serbia. Only two more sentences, said counterpart Boris Aleksic, but again I draw attention to the caution when adopting this law, and this points to the fact of the International Criminal Court Statute, where there is no defined crime of aggression, a crime against peace, which, by international law, is more serious than a crime of genocide. Why is this important to Serbia? Because Serbia and the Serbian people in the 20th and 21st centuries are the people and states most often exposed to this crime. In the last 18 years alone, the Serbian people and Serbia have been exposed four times to a crime against peace and crime against aggression.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25171	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Before we move on to the next amendment only to the notice, since the Committee's reports on the amendment to Article 5, submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, the government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Amendment to Article 9 submitted jointly by MPs Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25172	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, have submitted to Article 13 of the New Serbia Parliamentary Club one amendment, to make it clearer, I will read that Article 13: Immediately after receiving the notice of Article 12(1) of this Law, the competent public prosecutor and other state authorities are taking the necessary steps to detect the criminal offence, i.e. in order to prosecute, if no criminal offence has already been conducted in the Republic of Serbia. The ministry immediately after knowledge, and no later than a month after receiving the notice from Article 12 of this law, informs the prosecutor of whether a criminal offence has been committed in the Republic of Serbia for a criminal offence received. The New Serbia's proposal is that this month-long deadline be reduced to a month. The reasons for this are, above all, from the principle of efficiency, and you can't see from the government's explanation why this amendment is not accepted. In fact, the government says it takes some time, given that certain checks and international legal aid are needed, and therefore it is time for the applicant to act. It's quite contradictory here that the Ministry can do it immediately or at the latest within 30 days. If there's an assumption -- right now, then I don't see why you're leaving such a long 30-day deadline, because if you're calling for it to be long enough to have to do something on the ground, then it's totally too high to stand this out right now. Either this - drop it now or drop the deadline by 30 days. I couldn't stand this argument you made. I think this amendment should have been accepted. I think we're going to meet both the prosecutor's investigation, the acoustic procedure and the system today, where there's a great possibility of electronic insight into any conduct of criminal proceedings is absolutely due. I would understand that this amendment was submitted or this proposal was made 30 years ago when we didn't have such an efficient computer system that we could at any time see whether the procedure was initiated or not. I think this is a completely long time and that this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25173	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, International Criminal Law falls under a gram of public law. After the end of World War II, the courts were tried as the courts of the winners, and after the formation of the UN tribunal, this court, above all, focused on selective justice, which was founded by the UN Security Council, whose legitimacy was questioned. As for this member and his position 2, the SRS believes there is no secret in co-operation with the International Criminal Court. What's a secret? What does it have to be a secret? What is needed to prove to the International Criminal Court in the course of the criminal proceedings. International law represents a synthesis of politics and rights, which in international criminal law should allow for the exercise of the right to politics, which in the present time is not, as well as its greater justification for the generally accepted fundamental principles of criminal law. History shows that where politics dominates the right, there is a conflict of politics and rights, which requires certain social deviations. It is mistakenly believed that positiveism has allowed policy to penetrate law, although it is certain that positiveism can be misused in politics. It seems, however, that natural law theories largely allow for policy penetration in law, even when it tends to set the limits of politics, because natural law makes it even more possible to abuse rights for political purposes, as is the case in Serbia. International criminal law, as a complex international entity, provides for further development only if it permanently guarantees the rule of law over politics, which again is not the case in Serbia. Any opposite development will give the international true character of the imposed right. Serbia too has been imposed on US law, because it will do the will of the ruling world power and will not be accepted. So criminal law and other numerous rights branches in Serbia are experiencing, above all, humiliation, but in Serbia the Americanisation of Anglo-Saxon law is being conducted, rather than being defined on continental law, on which Serbia has been building its legal system for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25175	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25176	Article 15 and this amendment are a good reason for Serbia's public to be informed of what is at work, simply what is meant, as it is designed, what is being done, what is planned, that simply citizens can inform themselves of it in time, so that everyone can draw some conclusion and agree their behaviour with what is meant for us. This is a member referring to the presence of a representative of the International Criminal Court before our authorities when a matter of criminal responsibility is being debated, so-called, for war crimes. This question opens and makes us remember what it was. Just to remind me that in both 92 and 93, even later, regardless of what state-law status Serbia was in, it agreed to co-operate with representatives of the international community to be present during court proceedings in Serbia. It did not satisfy the appetites of this beast that focused on Serbia and the Serb people. The UN tribunal is formed, a completely illegal institution, here are formed departments, special courts, prosecutors, all with the aim of controlling those responsible for brutally breaking the former SFRY, because they simply cannot allow some impartial, objective court to establish the truth and, on the basis of the truth, decide on individual criminal responsibility. On the contrary, judicial authorities are needed under NATO's NATO Pact and the EU's watchful control not to move forward to conclude that they are the main culprits. If America does not allow their citizens to comply with the Rome Statute, I do not know why Serbia would allow it. Then we have one process, the citizens will recognize it, it starts with words -- Serbia needs a bilateral Serbia, in order for Javier Solana, Olli Rehn, NATO's pact to be controlled by both power and opposition. When only one of them sells milk, he's doing a good job. When one controls both power and opposition, he's also doing a good job. Today on the political scene, except for the SRS, we have all other political parties racing in a better, more efficient way to fulfill what NATO's Pact and the EU expect. There is no room in this race for either KIM, for Serbs, for Vojvodina, or for Belgrade, there is no place for Prokuplje. The government is so built, the Resistance is installed in all structures, the Americans have as much as you want, by mistake speaking some time Serbian. A few days ago, we had a kind of scandal in this building, under Sonja Licht's chairmanship, some NGOs, and who knows who's gathered. They held a meeting, as if the building of the National Assembly was a local community for NGOs. Then they agreed to speak English. They don't care about Serbian. So no one should be surprised that a year ago, the one who glued posters with the inscription "Bulevar Ratko Mladic" said today, "but arrest him as soon as possible, there's no need to worry, I don't need to worry." It's no problem for Ollie Rehn to receive the Chetnik Duke. Anything's possible. Serbia should be under the control of the mafia that completes that financial part of the job and under the watchful path of NATO's political influence and the European Union, and you citizens of the Republic of Serbia by voting for the pro-European and Eurofanatic ideas of individual representatives and individual politicians, in fact, vote against yourself. That's the message. This is the message that is being installed, which is why the regulation on public information is being amended, to make it a dominant form of thinking in Serbia, as there is no alternative. Let me remind you, the Drina border is no alternative. The Dayton Agreement - there is no alternative. Resolution 1244 - no alternative. We deliver Milosevic, we'll all get better, there's no alternative, so after 20 more people are gone. The conditioning policy can also be seen in this bill. The parliament's task is that, if possible, one thousand laws are passed in 15 minutes, to prove that most citizens of the Republic of Serbia are on the way to Euro-Atlantic integration. Of course, Serbian citizens cannot see that in the centre of Brussels their farmers, milk farmers throw milk, protest, burning factories in Germany, that there are some riots. When this happens to us, it appears primarily in the function of "relaxing citizens of the Republic of Serbia", so you see, if it is difficult in Brussels, it is perfectly normal to be difficult in Belgrade as well. Few people are able to get information that those who have joined the EU cannot use EU funds and funds for corruption, crime, etc. And here it's all about security for Serbia to be on the white Schengen list, because it's an epochal success of one who, several years ago during the campaign outside the embassy of a country, said: vote for me, in two years, there will be no of these lines. Today everyone's saying, "Thank you for the white Schengen, thank you for the passport," but what I'm going to do and where I'm going, how I'm going to feed my family. That's our theme. It's a topic that we have to keep thinking about, which we have to keep going here, so that simply at this time of enlightenment, people realize that it's not all the enlightenment that appears as some supposed European standard. You see for yourself, just a little while, one of the representatives of the international community comes to pull Boris Tadic out of the pool to breathe a little air, then spit him in the water again, to pressure him, to tighten him up, to finish here the dirtiest work towards this people and this country. Otherwise, from the point of view of the profession, the issue of jurisdiction, the issue of co-operation, extradition, delivery, surrender, etc., legal-technically-resolved problems would never be a problem, but there is something here that threatens the dignity of every man living in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of any form of mutual difference. All have been ruined dignity, thanks above all to this government and these governments, and to this political scene, where even the most harsh theft of mandates is treated as a European, European standard. The idea of two-party Serbia is the idea that Javier Solana and the fraternians, and they, like him, control both the government and the opposition and have a debauchery guaranteed position here. And where are the citizens, where their vital interests are -- the side thing, if it can be shown in some sort of statement. We have a government of destruction. What area of social life code normally works for us? We're all at risk. How do we get out of this situation? How do we implement radical changes and the basics of these changes to put the man and the interests of this nation and the interests of this country? On the interests of this people, Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic and these new Europeans meeting in secret talks with tycoons and these other things. They can get the state out of this crisis -- no, they can only deepen the crisis? To deepen the crisis, to sink every citizen with any thought of living. That is why we will not vote in favour of this bill, because it is another one in a series that destroys Serbia, this one particularly destroys dignity and our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25177	Nine minutes from the time available to the parliamentary group were used. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 16. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 16 provides that certain procedural actions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia may also be carried out by representatives of the International Criminal Court. The SRS has proposed eradicating this member, because we believe that this is how we question the sovereignty of the Serbian state that is threatened, among other things, by the man to whom you were scandalous yesterday, contrary to the Law on Travel Documents, Olija Rehn, assigned the biometric passport of the Republic of Serbia. Now, Mr. Homen, you as the former leader of the Resistance and as the man who was on the State Department payroll at the time, you're in an awkward situation. You explain to us the proposal for a law under which we should deliver our citizens to the International Criminal Court and that we even allow representatives of the International Criminal Court to perform procedural actions in the Republic of Serbia, and your employers, your sponsors, will not hand over ratification instruments to the UN Secretary-General and, this World Democracy Bastion, this International Criminal Court and its statute do not commit at all. Now here is the question of the elemental morality of people who explain these legal solutions -- made by Americans, the Americans funded them, and now we need to do everything Americans imagine. And those who have not stopped fighting since 1945, those who have supported all the dictatorial and neo-fascist regimes in the world, those who are in fact the real culprits of breaking the former Yugoslavia, those who are now at war in Iraq, Afghanistan, who are preparing to start some new war raids -- the statute of the International Criminal Court does not commit them. So, Mr. Homen, if the statute of the International Criminal Court does not oblige the Americans, who created and funded the Resistance, who today is ruling the Serbian judiciary, then why would the state of Serbia be obliged to allow the representatives of the International Criminal Court to work in the Republic of Serbia all that comes to their minds?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25179	From time to time, two minutes and 25 seconds have been used as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a debate in particular, based on the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25180	Dear Madam Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have been listening here for days in the hall of some people who belong to a political party when it comes to the Resistance. I'm listening to various imputations when it comes to some people sitting here in the O.R. Instead of discussing the amendments, it discusses whether a senior official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a civil servant, may be on the State Department payroll. As far as I know, no one in the government of the Republic of Serbia is on the State Department payroll. As far as I know, no one sitting in this hall here in places reserved for ministers has said - if ever NATO's boot sets foot on Kosovo, it will withdraw from politics. As far as I know, in 1999 the president of the party to which Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic belongs said so. NATO soldiers didn't come barefoot to KIM. I was recently in Kosovo, all wearing boots and I see you here sharing lessons from patriotism that bother me very much. I don't mind you talking about criminal law from the aspect of your profession. I don't mind when you talk to the political option you belong to, but when you try to share someone in the country of Serbia for nine years, ten years after NATO occupation of Kosovo, ten years after NATO forces arrive in Kosovo, as you say, and not me, trying to divide someone into patriots and traitors, trying to divide someone in this room into the officials of the State Department, ask yourself, before you shed streams of crocodile tears - what is your responsibility in the arrival of the NATO Pact in Kosovo? Ask yourself, where were they in 1999? Ask yourself when you once lie down to sleep if you dream of Prince Lazar, Urosh, if you dream of Stefan Decansky, have you ever seen the Peæko Patriarchy, whether it's your grandfather's, your father's father's, whether you've changed William Walker's jeep, whether you've led a policy that led to that part of Serbia's occupation or not, and then you're giving lessons here who's the patriot, who isn't. Please focus on the agenda and discuss from the aspect of the profession you belong to, not to divide us into patriots and traitors. People sitting here are getting paid by the taxpayers of Serbian citizens, not the State Department. Serbian citizens know they value what and who works for Serbia. I am sorry that the Resistance is not in a stronger position to rule Serbia more than to rule rather than rule. Because Serbia doesn't rule. The time for ruling Serbia has passed. It's time to run Serbia now. We've taken responsibility for this job, that job we're doing well. The citizens evaluated him in parliamentary elections, but also in local elections in Vranjska Banja, where you did not cross the censorship, in Književec where you did not cross the censorship, and in the next elections you also threatened not to cross the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25181	Two minutes and 57 seconds have been used since the time available for the ZES parliamentary group. Does he want the right to replicate MP Aleksandar Martinovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be a good idea for this former Resistance, the man who was and is now probably on the State Department payroll, to talk a little bit about the bill's proposals from the point of view of his profession, instead of trying to teach SRS MPs from session to session some kind of lesson. From you, Mr. Milivojevic, I've never heard anything about legal solutions, I've only heard you mention the State Department, the Prince of Lazar, Stefan Decansky, the NATO Pact. It all looks the same to you. You don't even know what this is about. So, Mr. Milivojevic, you would never have sat in the seats where you are now sitting if it hadn't been for the State Department, the EU and the NATO Pact. They brought you to power and stop hiding behind the people once, behind the will of the citizens, etc. That's not what I'm saying, Mr. Milivojevic, get Tim Marshall's book "The Shadows Game", they'll tell you who was meeting in Budapest, who was meeting in Montenegro, what whoever declared during NATO aggression, who was tasked with setting up locators during NATO intervention, etc. So that's not what the SRS says, that's what the English and the Americans say, the same ones who trained you and who funded you, who do it still because they didn't finish their job. KiM is occupied, but occupation is a temporary condition. That'll pass. Now they're trying to take the Duke from us. Who knows what they won't think of. Now, you've come to see whether or not the happy or unhappy, life circumstances have fallen to you fighting for American interests here in Serbia. Fight as you fight. I think the Americans are monitoring the sessions of this assembly right now, and they would delete you from the payroll, because in a very funny way, you represent American interests. I believe there are a lot more written and educated people in the DS ranks, who would probably do the money they're getting better. Maybe the Americans won't have anything to do at the time of these vacations, so they'll be watching the Assembly sessions through satellites, and then when they hear what you're saying, believe me, Mr. Milivojevic, you'll have less dollars in your pocket than you have now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25183	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25184	Madam President, the chairman, I think the injured member of Rules 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, and 104, where he is insulted, among other things, and the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Martinovic, there is no need for me to replicate you, you are being replicated by Serbian citizens in the elections. From someone who was in power in 99 C.E., I don't expect you to read the Bible before you go to sleep, of course you're reading Tim Marshall's lessons. But read books from the beginning, but not from the end. On the ninth page of Tim Marshall's book, it says that atrocity of money coming from the U.S. administration was given to bribe people from the top of the government. Your party was at the top of power back then. If they haven't given you as much as they belong to you, go and ask them to give you what you did to this country in 99 years, but don't ask the citizens of Serbia, ask those who cheated on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25185	National MP, none of the members you quoted were injured. Your request and your proposal to speak on the agenda also does not stand, since I listen carefully to all speakers about amendments, namely the topic on the agenda, and the law on co-operation and the International Criminal Court, and with careful listening and on any subject, and especially on this one, you must allow time for all MPs to, in a free manner and in accordance with their own style and political views here to try to explain why some amendment that they have is good for amendments and amendments to the law. When it goes along the edge, then taking care of order and on the basis of Article 27, I tend to let the discussion go along the edge, rather than being subject to strict and strict application of the Rules of Procedure to sanction something such a subject, however, in my court, requires. You are free to put the Assembly on this by voting in the voting day. I have no intention of changing the ageing of order, allowing MPs to at least on this subject in the broadest possible way of trying to prove the quality and need to adopt their amendment. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite true that on the side of nine of his book "The Shadows Game" Tim Marshall has indeed found that there were certain people in the regime who worked with the Americans. But, Mr. Milivoevich, you haven't said anything new. What you just said was, in 2000, Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, when he found out clearly and loudly that it was not possible for the whole system to stop functioning in a few hours without being implemented with the help of the people in the regime itself. So, Milosevic, on October 5th, left people from his party behind, not the SRS. Those who commanded the army, those who commanded the police, those who had control over national security, they left you, NATO mercenaries, to the mercy and mercy of the heads of state and their party chief, not anyone from the SRS. If it were up to us from the SRS, the Chernomidin - Ahtisaari plan, which allowed NATO troops to enter KIM would never have been adopted. Your party and all parties in the Serbian Parliament, except the SRS, voted in favour of the agreement. So, you, Mr. Milivojevic, have allowed the NATO Pact to be present today at KIM. Speaking of KIM, Mr. Milivojevic, I have not heard one word from you, mentioning the prince of Lazar and Stefan Decanski, the fact that more than ten days of Serbs in Strpc have no electricity, that yesterday, the Cypriot police interrupted the session of SO Strpce and that it is happening again on 17 March 2004 on the Serbian people in KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25187	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25188	I answered, Mrs. Dejanovic, because of this change in the chairman, to use the right to replicate. But, Mrs. Comic, in '99, I was a minister... (President: Excuse me, Mrs. Comic estimated you do not have the right to reply. ) She estimated that I was not a minister in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25189	You were a minister, we all know that, but you don't have the right to a replica. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by an MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25190	In fear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will not accept the amendment where we have provided for the erasure of Article 16, as a very dangerous member under this law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, because Article 16 provides for the actions of the International Criminal Court on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we have also submitted an amendment to which we are trying to arrange this member, at least in one part. In Article 2, which says that the conduct of the shop, which refers to the actions of the International Criminal Court, which may allow representatives of the International Criminal Court to carry out certain actions on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which the SRS considers to be inadmissible, therefore, to carry out these actions, says the bill, must be attended by a person appointed by the minister responsible for the judiciary. We have also suggested that there be a professional face of the Ministry of the Interior, which is determined by the minister responsible for internal affairs and the professional face of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, appointed by the Republic Public Prosecutor. It is amazing that this has not been accepted, because, according to the government, the Ministry of Justice is the central authority through which the co-operation of our state authorities with the International Criminal Court takes place. So, Mrs. Malovic is afraid of competition, that one of her fellow ministers may not fall into this co-operation with the International Criminal Court and other international organisations, ad hoc courts, etc. It is now amazing that this fear does not allow, in addition to, say, one of these former resistance officials to be present when these representatives of the International Criminal Court are going through the state of Serbia, and the presence of one of the Resistance is exactly the same as any of the representatives of the International Criminal Court, as we have heard in these earlier discussions. I would ask, but there are too few Members of the ruling majority here, the minister is gone, I don't have anyone to ask to accept this amendment, but here's just let the public of Serbia know what the government of the Republic of Serbia is up to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25191	The 21st Amendment was filed by a People's MP, Milorad Buha, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21(2). I'm obliged to read Section 2 for public reasons. He says - if the defendant himself does not provide a lawyer within three hours of being taught about his right or if he declares that he will not take a lawyer, the President of the competent court shall appoint him as his official office in the order of lawyers in order from the list provided by the competent bar of attorneys. With this amendment, we asked on behalf of the SRS to replace the word “three” with the word “one”. This amendment has not been accepted by the Government. It is absolutely irrelevant whether it is three hours or one hour, it is important to go to the defendant to ask if he has his lawyer and it would be appropriate to do so because of urgency and not leave the possibility to investigate authorities or other authorities that they may exercise certain pressure within three hours, which is usually to pressure the defendant to deny certain rights. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted this amendment. What is important from the aspect of the public presented here is certain actions in the procedure carried out by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to the suit of the Republic of Croatia against the Republic of Serbia, which was sent to the International Court of Justice back in 1999. Unfortunately, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia hide certain information that I will present here from the public, referring to the activities of the International Court of Justice, which has asked the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to make a statement on the claims made by the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the International Court of Justice has since 14 September 1999 asked the SRJ to press charges by 14 September 2000. Unfortunately, the state authorities did not provide an answer at the time. On the other hand, the International Court of Justice asked the SRJ state authorities to respond by 14 September 2002 by a new order of 14 September 2000. Unfortunately, neither warrant nor other is respected. The state authorities are silent about this. It has been 10 years, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have not responded. There is a great danger, in line with the provisions of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, that the suit should be accepted as such. This is a provision of Article 56. The statutes. This is about the inconclusiveness of the government, the sloppy attitude of the government. The public isn't familiar with all this. I have asked two parliamentary questions about what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing to respond to the suit of countersuit, lawsuit or to accept, as is currently being done, the passive relationship in fact and the lawsuit and all the claims made in the complaint brought by the Republic of Croatia. The dark clouds have prevailed over the Republic of Serbia over this lawsuit. The Republic of Serbia has been accused of genocide, ethnic cleansing, of the most serious forms of war crime against the civilian population. The state authorities have been accused of participating in the creation, planning and execution of the most serious crimes. There's no answer. What does that mean? By a passive relationship, you admit to a nonexistent crime. Who's doing this in the world today? Nobody. This is a unique example in the world that 10 years for constructed political qualifications do nothing to disprove it. It's a shame by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. My parliamentary question has been answered that the countersuit is being prepared, that is, I don't have time to read, the answer is right. What does that mean? All we're going to do is answer their claims that we didn't do it. We are not talking about the crimes that Croatian armed forces and Croatia have committed as a state towards the Serb people. Genocide and ethnic cleansing and the most severe forms of war crime have been initiated against the Serb population. Almost the entire Serb population has been expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. That's what the state's authorities are silent about. We've been stripped of all collective and individual rights. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. This is embarrassing for the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25193	Three minutes and 45 seconds you spoke from the parliamentary group, and two minutes after the amendment. Gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will be in direct transmission by 4:30 p.m., if I give a break from the hour and that we will be working in accordance with article 85 until the end of the agenda that will be at 6:00 p.m. on the agenda. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Excuse me, Mr. Krasic has a word for Mr. Buha's amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25194	I am taking a great risk of not spending a great deal of time with the SRS, but this amendment to Article 21, which simply regulates the situation within which time to provide defence to the suspect, etc., and what new ideologist DS Srdjan Milivojevic has just said, simply act inspiringly to remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are in The Hague tribunal of some who have reportedly left voluntarily, and in hospital they have left their slippers and glasses. On the occasion of Tim Marshall's book, just to draw attention to the public and to Mr Milivojevic, that all those described in that book have done so that the inside crack system is located with the DS in power now in the Republic of Serbia. I thank him for just confirming that the thesis with which I performed half an hour ago, that the Americans wanted to have control of both power and opposition. That's proof. Both the government and the opposition want to have it under their control. They've managed to do something. Now they have this situation to say -- who votes for those who are in power, he's pro-European, and we're left with the SRS. And I fought the NATO Pact in 1999, and we all fought the NATO Pact because we wanted to have the right to live. We wanted to know where our country is. I guess in that country we have the right to live. Thanks to this government, we get messages every day that we don't have the right to live in our own country, here's the pressure. Citizens of Serbia, be careful. Everything that tells you about Europe's great, honey and milk, the white Schengen, they're taking pictures with Ollie Rehn, Javier Solana, with representatives of the international community, working against you. And those from the West have to describe their associates in their books because they have obligations to taxpayers in America to say where they spent money, what they spend money on. The money is being spent on having power and opposition that corresponds to the US administration, the NATO Pact and others, that you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would not have room for life. It doesn't mean anything here whether the amendment is adopted or not. Nothing changes in this congregation, because the real boss isn't here, but in Brussels, two addresses. They decide through their representatives. It is those who have opinions and get it going to Brussels or from time to time someone from Brussels comes to get Boris Tadic out of the bathtub to not drown, to breathe another two three weeks, to comfort him a little longer, to endure a little longer. Can Serbian citizens handle this? You don't care about the citizens of Serbia, you don't care about KIM. It's important to you to be in power and share that money. If you can't win from abroad, and what the Americans said a few years ago -- we've funded you a lot, now you're in power, now take a little of your own people. We're more in charge today than the former SFRY. It's that disaster, a permanent disaster to this people. Of course the SRS is the only alternative. Thank you for being so united and showing the citizens in which direction they should be looking for a way out of this hopelessness that you're introducing him to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25195	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Homen, what's making you so humiliated? Not you personally, we don't take care of that. We take care of the interests of Serbian citizens and therefore do not allow and we will fight this. Explaining this amendment, I have little to oppose the opinion of my distinguished colleagues, well-informed and excellent lawyers, Mr Martinovic and Mr Krasic. They don't get any more money from the State Department, they get before when the object of destruction was the regime, and now that they have the goal of destroying the Serbian people, and above all those who oppose it, they don't send them the money, but they need to come here to collect our money. When, explaining the amendment to Article 7, I said that the SRS respects and wants to affirm the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I was also referring to a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the judicial function in us is permanent. Here in one way, in the position of Article 22(2) of this law you propose and invite the representatives of the International Criminal Court, you are calling, it is not intended by the Rome Statute, to come and be present for the handover of certain persons. You thus want to perform triage, or on their recommendation, by a representative of the International Criminal Court, who can continue to be the holder of the judicial function in Serbia. On one side of the law, there is more and more, and on the other hand, Serbian citizens are having fewer freedoms, less work and more hungry stomachs. You stand for some procedure, and you break it every day. In part, we of the SRS wanted to mitigate this and we said that Article 22 of Section 2 should be changed and that your obligation, therefore, of the Resistance, would be to inform them and not to invite them. There's a gentleman here who calls for some election results. I remember the 2003 election results in December, he was also a candidate for the MP and a list on which he had not crossed the censorship. But that only suggests that they were skillfully divided, made several columns, as they do today with position and opposition, made several columns to deceive Serbian citizens. Then they didn't make it, and I hope it doesn't work next time. You have to ask some questions - did all of them return to training, who went to take over the 2000s, and perhaps earlier? The answer to these questions is likely to be received when someone feels the need to just declare Kosovo and the sacredity of Kosovo, and that nothing or any political party to which it belongs now does not seem to protect the citizens of Serbia at all, and of course our citizens living on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25197	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice Committee have accepted this amendment, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25198	Article 24, paragraph 4, says that the detention specified by the investigative judge's solution may take a month, and I'm asking for 15 days. The decision of the competent council may extend for a maximum of two months, and I am asking for a month, with a reasoned proposal from the public prosecutor. In terms of not accepting this amendment of mine, you say that you believe that the length of detention is appropriate for the length of the proceedings. I'm really not surprised by this explanation of yours. I believe that for you and the length of seven years, which is the period our party president is in The Hague Kazamat, which is also similar to this International Court, is also an appropriate length for you. However, what is the point of this amendment? Like the UN tribunal, the International Court is a typical anti-Serb formation. Dozens and dozens of cases prosecuted before this court confirm that. The policy of double standards, the policy of the double arches applied in this court, which concerns the particularly sentenced sentences for Serbian and non-Serbian convicts, indeed shows. That is why the main objective of this amendment is to reduce detention in the detention of all those who will be handed over to the International Criminal Court tomorrow, and thus to reduce to some extent the intensity of human rights violations of Serbian citizens, those citizens who will be extradited to this court tomorrow. The full legitimacy and absolute justification of this amendment is given the circumstance that the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, has been in darkness for almost seven years in The Hague and that his trial has not been completed. But he, as well as the rest of the SRS, will always pursue higher goals that fully identify with Serbian national interests. And to him, like us, it will always be more important one day to be a hammer than a hundred days old. I'm sure many of you don't understand it, and I don't ask them to understand it, but I'm glad and I'm sure those who need to understand it, and these are Serbian citizens, they know it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25199	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted the amendment to Article 24. The government and the Justice Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have tabled on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group is, in fact, an clarification of the proposed Article 26, in paragraph 1, in accordance with Article 22 of this proposal. Article 26(1) reads - a request for the transfer of the accused to the International Criminal Court is decided by the competent court. The amendment stipulates that the point should be deleted and the words "Court of Belgrade" should be added, which is fully in line with Article 22(3), as I said -- to decide on the surrender procedure is the district court in Belgrade. However, the government has given the following reason: not to accept the amendment for the reasons for the adoption of amendments by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to Articles 22 and 24. The bill, which governs the court's jurisdiction in the process of handing over the defendant to the International Criminal Court, is now an important part of the sentence - which is in line with the provisions of the new law on the regulation of courts. Essentially, this amendment, i.e. My and Mr Konstantinovic's amendments are similar in some parts, i.e. the same, but I fully agree with the opinion that the government has given here, i.e. by reason of his fellow MP, Nenad Konstantinovic, better regulates the issue of court jurisdiction, as well as a possible vacuum that would arise from the district court to the formation of a higher court in Belgrade. But the question arises -- what kind of laws does the government, or the competent ministry, write, when they are actually not in line with other laws? Here, the government itself has admitted that the amendments submitted by Mr Konstantinovic, or proposed, are in line with the provisions of the new law on the regulation of courts, which means that the bill that is before us is not in line. So, what does the government say, what kind of laws does it propose, what laws do the competent ministry propose? As a national MP, I am allowed not to know all the laws in some area, but the Ministry or Government cannot afford such luxury. The question is whether people sitting in the ministry or in the government are reading their own laws, and this National Assembly adopted them, I ask you a question, and you end up asking it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25201	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25202	I have been inspired to report on this amendment in one of the delegations of power to represent this law, which is to point out by my colleague that the inadmissible conduct of the Government which, as competent and proposing, would have to comply with all the laws that he is proposing here, and this is about the organisation of courts. Noting that she didn't do it, there was a rumor that the law had been standing here for a year. I have only one objection, the MPs have not yet been able to form a single item of the agenda or in a regular session, and in an emergency I cannot. This means that the agenda is regulated by the Government by its majority, but the Government thus knows that in the course of work or before only passing the law, it essentially amends the legislative proposal, making your argument that you are trying to justify absolute waste. The law on public information, amendments to work, and the fact that we didn't know yesterday what proposal we were talking about because we didn't have an opinion, goes to the government's burden, and in no case can it go to the burden of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25203	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Delic, on behalf of the MPs' Club, has submitted an amendment to Article 26(4) concerning a decision on the request of the International Criminal Court. Article 4 states that a major solution is to hand over the defendant to the International Criminal Court when he finds: that the request concerns the defendant against whom the surrender procedure is being conducted, etc., that the conditions laid down in Article 91 are met. The statutes relating to the content require that the defendant be prosecuted for a criminal offence which is in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, that there be no interference with the surrender of the accused to the International Criminal Court. A colleague, Mr Delic, proposed by his amendment that another point be added in this position, which says he is in good health and that he can file proceedings before the International Court, which is determined by a specially formed Commission of the Ministry of Health. We consider this celibate, although the government in its opinion says it is not, because it is one of the main conditions concerning the defendant, that he is healthy and capable of trial, that he would participate in the trial and that he would be practically extradited. If the defendant has any health problems, the competent council should reject the request. Experience from the work of The Hague tribunal and particularly expressed concern about the health of the defendants gives grounds for one of these opinions that we have put into practice with this amendment. This is not something unknown in other countries' legislation, and I would just like to set an example for Croatia. In its explanation, the government stated, in addition, why it does not accept the amendment, that it is not overall, which is irrelevant, it says - it is not prescribed in the law governing international legal aid in criminal matters, and this amendment is precisely the reason why this matter is more complete and this area is more fully regulated, and this amendment is our opportunity, or its acceptance, to be so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25205	The government and the Justice Committee accepted the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 27, so he became an integral part of the bill. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25206	In a series of amendments to the Serbian front party Tomislav Nikolic, which primarily aimed at clarifying the procedure under which the suspect is extradited to the International Criminal Court, is also my amendment, an amendment to Article 27, and refers to an appeal against a solution requested by the International Criminal Court. I thought it was totally unacceptable with one norm that was unscheduled to go when it came to appeals against the solution. I also felt that it was necessary to give the deadline in which the appeal was decided. In my amendment, a 15-day deadline has been proposed. The government doesn't have that deadline. I think it is a great shame to treat some of these amendments in this way to this institution, the International Criminal Court institution, with our citizens, to create trust. When it comes to this area, I think we need to be extra careful. The extradition of our citizens to some institutions outside the country is a serious topic. This is not only a matter of legal nature, but also of a political nature, and any ambiguity found in the text of the law has a significant impact on the overall climate in our society, so I believe that not only this amendment, but also on the amendment of my colleague, the government needed to react more seriously and with much more arguments, possibly, to reject these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25207	Members of the 27th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Igor Becic and Zoran Babic. Mr. Babic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's Progressive Party, counterpart Igor Becic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. The purpose of any law is to regulate the area for which it is intended, but also to be clear and unequivocal. However, in this bill, the jurisdiction of the courts that we want to clarify with this amendment is unclear. In particular, Article 2 of paragraph 7 of this proposal defines the competent court as a major competent court composed of three judges, who decide in the sitting to appeal against the decision of the investigating judge and draws a solution to the request of the International Criminal Court for the surrender of the accused. What court is that? Is this the Supreme Court under the new schedule of the courts of general jurisdiction or is it the Belgrade District Court, as you stated in the explanation of this bill? In a complaint against decisions taken by a senior or district court, the Court of Justice shall decide immediately upon a higher court. The Court of Appeal, in whose jurisdiction and jurisdiction it is to rule on complaints against decisions of senior courts, is directly senior court under the new schedule of the courts of general jurisdiction. However, since the draft law did not treat the schedule of new courts, neither the general nor the higher courts, nor the appeals or cassation court were mentioned anywhere. It is the Supreme Court of Serbia, which provides for this amendment, and I believe it is logical and correct to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25209	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25210	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted to Serbia the amendment that, in Article 27, paragraph 5, after the word "more" would add the words "the Supreme Cassation Court", and the amended position would then read: "The Supreme Court of Cassation may reject the appeal of the public prosecutor as unfounded or adopt when it amends the solution set out in Article 26 of this Law, and it makes decisions on the surrender of the accused to the International Criminal Court". We believe that it is necessary to stress that only the Supreme Court of Cassation can debate and decide on the appeal, i.e. Serbia's Supreme Court, because the explanation given in Article 2 paragraph 7 only confuses the competence to decide. I will take advantage of the opportunity and read Article 2. "The above is a larger court of jurisdiction composed of three judges who decide in the session on appeals against the judge's solution and draws a solution to the International Criminal Court's request to hand over the defendant." The judiciary is one of the fundamental pillars of society, and we believe that in this law, which speaks of our country's co-operation with the International Criminal Court, all ambiguities should be removed. My colleagues have made certain objections to this bill, and for this reason we have submitted a number of amendments that I believe should be accepted to improve this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25211	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Zoran Antic has submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the title above members of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Criminal Sanktions (Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radović, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Dejan Mirović, Mirko Munjic, Boris Aleksic, Dragan Stevanovic, Milorad Buha, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milan Avramović, Vladan Jeremic, Goran Mihajlović, Nenad Konstanović, Zoran Krasić, Bojan Mladenović, Vuceta Tosković, Veroljub Arsic, Paja Momčov, Vladan Antic and Bodar Deldić. You received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the following amendments as incomplete: to Article 15, submitted jointly by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, to Article 37, which was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic, to article 114, which is being amended by Rule 266, with correction, which was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Discarded amendments cannot be discussed and will not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government believes that the law on the execution of criminal sanctions should replace the word "prisoners". But if you look at the Penal Code, you'll see that 99% of its provisions actually apply to the execution of the sentence of imprisonment. The sentence of imprisonment shall be executed in the institutions of the Bureau type. Indeed, it is unclear why the Serbian government replaces the duck "criminal" when criminal sanctions are a much wider concept than the penalty for deprivement of freedom. There's also a fine. It's also a criminal sanction. The fine as a criminal penalty is essentially not carried out under the provisions of this law, because the fine as a criminal sanction executes a person convicted of that fine by paying the corresponding amount of money and then the amount becomes the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is no special procedure for the execution of fines. What's being executed is the sentence of a prison that replaces a fine, but then the sentence of a prison is executed, again in an institution of a law enforcement type. No fines are executed. A fine can only be executed by one who is sentenced to fines. If he does not pay the corresponding amount of cash fines, the fine is replaced by another fine, the sentence of prison, but then the fine is no longer executed, but some other sanctions are executed. This is a punishment for deprivement of freedom under the provisions of the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions. We have suggested that Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions be deleted from Article 1, which replaces the word “industrials” with the term “criminals. ” We believe that such a solution is much more celery, much more logical, given the almost total content of the Code on the enforcement of criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25213	Mr. Zoran Krasic signed up. He won't, he doesn't want to follow this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that the formulation in Article 2 is completely inadequate, i.e. that it is inaccurate and does not affect the essence of the purpose of carrying out criminal sanctions. Namely, in Article 2. The bill is said – the purpose of the execution of sanctions is to execute judicial and judicial decisions in order to protect society from criminal and other criminal acts. All those who do know criminal law know the purpose of the execution of criminal sanctions is two men. On the one hand, it is that other people, other citizens, turn away from committing crimes. On the other hand, the purpose of executing criminal sanctions is that the perpetrator himself has turned away from committing any more crimes. However, Article 2 covers only this, we would say, general crime prevention, but the other type of criminal sanctions are completely omitted, which is a special prevention of crime. Therefore, it is completely omitted from the fact that the state wants or should want the person who has committed the crime after the criminal penalty has been imposed on him, therefore, after being re-orientated, after the re-examination programme has passed, to become a normal, normal member of a society that will no longer commit crimes. The wording proposed in Article 2 includes, in part, the general prevention of crime, but the special prevention of criminality is completely out of sight, and it is in fact the law on the execution of criminal sanctions that is most important, because every criminal sanction is committed against an individual as a perpetrator of a crime, with the ultimate aim that, after he has endured the criminal penalty imposed on him by a court in an appropriate criminal procedure, he no longer commits crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25215	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mrs. Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25216	When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, it is indisputable to comply with the law itself. But we just have to act because we did it and then when it was time to do it with a big delay. As a parliamentary group, we have pointed out several times so far that it is necessary to bring all the laws in line with the Constitution, as prescribed by the Constitutional Law itself, until 31 December 2008. As you can see, we are now doing it with some laws, eight or seven months after the expiry of that deadline, which I find completely unwarranted. On the other hand, when it comes to this amendment that we have submitted to Article 2, it is clear that the motion has come from a completely different definition of the purpose of executing criminal sanctions. In our legislation, it is already in the position of Article 2. The criminal code provided for a determination of the purpose of enforcement of criminal sanctions and at least what the proposer could be is that he consistently respected the provision of the Criminal Code which already regulated the matter. On the contrary, he's gone completely the other way and we're in fact conflict with these two provisions, which deal with defining the same concept. I don't think the Proposer should be able to define the purpose of executing criminal sanctions to step down from Articles 3 and 4. A criminal code, which puts human protection first, not society. They indicate that man is one of the most important social values, which deserves to have a special concept in the bill itself, which the proposer himself does not do at all. In the most developed modern societies, it has long been seen that calling for the protection of social values often abuses criminal rights precisely to the full harm of what is meant to be its purpose, which is the protection of the man himself. That is why, in Article 2, we have provided for a completely different definition of the purpose of executing criminal sanctions, we have said that the purpose of applying criminal sanctions is to combat an act that harms or threatens a man and other fundamental social values. This purpose shall be achieved through the enforcement of judicial and executive judicial decisions. Since my colleagues do not have the opportunity to explain the amendment that we have submitted to Article 15, because the Legislative Committee has rejected it for completely inexplicable reasons as, as far as I understand it, I think it is necessary to obtain an adequate interpretation which is the criteria under which the Legislative Committee was governed to make one such decision. Article 15, which we have submitted to the amendment, refers to amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, Article 15 of the amendment and the amendment is treated by Article 27 of the applicable law. If you enter into an analysis of what we have proposed with the amendment itself, then you can see that we intervened in that direction that we disagree that the director of the office is not subject to the rules applicable to all officials in the executive government. In fact, in Article 15, which treats Article 27 of the applicable law, the legislator effectively deleted the provision on the length of the term of office manager's term of office. We now have a situation to put the head of the office in place without restrictions on the duration of his term of office. The earlier solution was that his term lasted five years. Just by erasing Article 15, which our amendment refers to, it wanted to intervene in this sense that the old solution is maintained It is a fundamental legal logic, if we delete Article 15 of the amendment and supplement, it does not mean that we are erasing Article 27 of the applicable law. So by erasing Article 15 of the amendment itself and supplementing it, it means Article 27. We want to leave the applicable law unchanged. This was precisely the purpose of submitting this amendment and therefore I see no reason why the Legislative Committee and on the basis of which the criteria of such an amendment have been rejected, especially when it is known which matter it regulates and how important it is to limit the duration of the term of office of the prison manager himself. We also submitted the essential amendments to Article 14, where we felt it was entirely inappropriate to abolish the restriction that the existing law provides for in respect of the type of work that must have a working experience candidate as director of the administration. It is true that work experience is now increasing which is necessary for the director of the administration to be a candidate at all. But it's not good because I don't see what jobs he's supposed to have a job experience on. For now, that's it. I'll leave my colleagues with further explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25217	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25218	President-in-Office, Mr. Homen, ministers in the announcement of appearance, since the minister is not here, but well, the time is ahead, I hope you will honestly understand the intention of the DSS parliamentary group, because we really consider that Article 2. The bill of law you want to amend the provision on the purpose of the execution of criminal sanctions. We've tried to give one definition that we've aligned with the Criminal Code, with its Article 3, which you haven't changed with this amendment and supplementation proposal. He's still in effect. That's why I think we're going to agree on this, that man is certainly the most important social value, both his religious and semi-freedom, and property and everything else should be protected by this regulation. Indeed, there was the best intention to cover it with this very amendment. I don't see why this was rejected. It has been shown that certain social activities, whether it be official duty, traffic, businesses, cannot be compared to human protection if we want to highlight it in the right way. So I ask you once again, if there is a possibility, to accept this definition, because in a comprehensive way, in accordance with the Criminal Code, in a much better way, it defines this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25219	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am staying with this amendment and its contents on behalf of the SRS. I have a number of objections to the proposed law on the agenda today. The question is whether the criminal sanctions procedure is respected in accordance with the Constitution, international legal acts, statutes and conventions. Are we bringing torture to the prisoners? Are these actions in line with the rights to the physical and psychological integrity of man and human dignity? The law and sublegal acts relating to the human rights that are at stake here represent some kind of modern-day noise, if electronic devices are added here that are intended to attach people to certain parts of the body. Are we going back to the times when man was sometimes shackled, as one theorists said and an expert, from door to pain? I would like to list a few examples here regarding the maintenance of criminal sanctions when it comes to Serbia. According to an annual report by the Bureau on the execution of office sanctions for 2007, the number of sentenced to 40 years in prison was 19, the number sentenced to 15 to 20 years was 33, convicts and from 10 to 15 years was 144. This means that the total number of these most corporals, as one says, have been sentenced to more than ten years, is just 166 convicts. Fortunately, crime has enough knowledge of etiology and the phenomenon of crime and has not found any difference between former and present dangerous criminals. They're all the same, so one Al Capone, Dillinger, and the other are no less dangerous than current mobsters. The same goes for criminals from our climate. Former hard guys on our streets couldn't do it in prison because they didn't have the support of political powers. These current ones are more dangerous only because some of the political establishment are holding in the hands of the services they have done to them, so much more dangerous if they know more, not because they are more powerful and unscrupulous than the former. Such an attitude also creates a certain fear. Therefore, the need to implement different reforms in the prison system of the Republic of Serbia is imposed, herene meets certain needs of democratic society and not even European standards. That is why we believe, the SRS, that fundamental human rights have been compromised in the matter of maintaining criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25221	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25222	The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions and proposes that paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this proposal be deleted, and for the reason that the Proposer suggested that the word "indicator" be replaced by "criminal". We believe that this is not an adequate substitute and therefore this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25223	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. You're always a little late. Okay. Excuse me, please, under the previous amendment first Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25224	You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, are too quick to look down on that screen of yours, so you can't see when the MP answers the word, but you are an extremely dear lady to me and of course don't understand this in any ugly context. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 7. The Serbian government has proposed that the institution and the centre, as institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, be established by a government act. The Institute Act determines the type, type and headquarters of the Institute, i.e. the activity and headquarters of the Centre. The basic principle stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is that state authorities are established by law. As the ministries are set up by law, as courts are established by law, as public prosecutors are established by law, so institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions should be established by law. We believe in the SRS that this solution is absolutely constitutional, that it is absolutely democratic and that this is the only way to protect the principle, in a broader sense, of judicial, or judicial independence. If the solution contained in the Bill's proposal to deceive is established by a decision, or act of government, then it will mean that institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions are nothing more than extended hands of the Government as executive authorities. Such a solution is absolutely not in line with the Constitution, absolutely not democratic. Then you can set up courts by government act, then the prosecutions want you to set up a government act, then you can set up a government act, then you need laws, then you don't need the National Assembly at all. Therefore, the SRS considers that there must be no exceptions in the case of state bodies as regards the way in which they are set up. If the same principle, the principle that state authorities are educated by law, applies to all state authorities, then it must apply to this specific category of state authorities, therefore to state authorities whose primary task is to enforce criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25225	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 8. The bill of law of the retraining service becomes a treatment service. We really believe that this is a cosmetic change and that it should not stand in this bill, because I do not know why the foreign word "tretman" is used, when there is a perfectly appropriate word in Serbian, which is "action". With this observation, Article 18 is also logically linked. The bill, which says, is that the purpose of the execution of the prison sentence is achieved by applying appropriate programmes of conduct. Why did you write in article 18 like this, and in Article 8, you gave a word that is not Serbian and we really think there is no reason not to act equally, if there is at all a need to change the name of the retraining service, that is to say, in Article 8, it stands as we have suggested. I invite you to look at the words of the river and the expressions of Kline and Šipka from 2006, where the foreign word "tretman" in Serbian means - the way to act in a situation when dealing with a problem, handling, handling. I would not want, if such a provision remains, to have someone think that the government wants to give cosmetic treatment to convicted persons, to make them up and dress them up, but to really use the wealth of Serbian language and the appropriate word that exists in them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25227	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25228	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for article nine to be deleted. I'll say Article 19. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions says - the reviewing service applies methods and procedures affecting convicted persons not to commit crimes in the future and the retraining service harmonizes the work of other participants in the retraining. So instead of fine, accurate, adequate and correct words of "retraint", you introduce the word "tretman". I understand the word "trement", for example, patients with certain medications, but that's, you'll agree, a medical term. I also understand the word "treatment" or treatment of plants with the help of certain preparations, but it is again an area of agronomy and plant protection. I don't know if I've come across a word of treatment in this context so far, and especially not a "conviction service." I'm sure we've never come across that before. You can't say, though. Convictions are treated when they arrive on the first day of the sentence, is that right, or in the course of the punishment procedure? But that treatment is really against something else, and it has nothing to do with retraining. Why are you changing terms that are more common and appropriate? Why should they tell you tomorrow that you have that rule - that the hothead in power quickly fathoms that it's the sun. So accept this amendment and keep your old name.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25229	On Article 12, the amendment was taken by MP Boris Aleksic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25230	I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, paragraph 9, in which I request that the words "Minister in power" be replaced by the words "Minister in power". Here's the thing. The ministry, however, is a state body, unlike the minister who represents it, the ministry will be there permanently operational, and the minister will leave the post sooner or later. However, in the nature of this ruling coalition, it is indeed everything they can grab, so where they should not put the word "minister", but "ministership", they seek to highlight this official who is at the head of a ministry and enable him to acquire various goods and services during his term. What happens to all kinds of ministers? This is where the Resistance funding theme was launched. The Western media also wrote about it, not those in the East, so "Nuvel Observer", in 1883 from December 7th to 13th 2000, has a theme of the text "Millions for Resistance", in which it taxfully states how much money the Resistance was formed in Serbia. The resistance was formed in the centre of the DS, in the streets of Serbian rulers in 1999, about two weeks before the NATO Pact aggression against the SRJ. Prior to that, an organisation called Resistance at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade was formed, but when Mr. Advisors of President Boris Tadic, such as Jovan Ratkovic, and two weeks before the start of the NATO Pact aggression at the SRJ centre in DS, brought a sponsorship agreement between the USAID resistance, most of the old founders of the Resistance left the movement. Then came people such as Homen, Neca Konstantinović and others, Rasko Šejić etc. It was also written by Professor Smilja Avramov in her book on NGOs, where a document from the US Embassy was published, which shows in particular how certain DS officials receive money, so it's about $4,000, with the signatures and stamps of the US Embassy. The Russians also published the book "Orange Revolution", which mentions Mr. Homen, and mentions the Central Intelligence Agency, which participated in organising coups and revolutions in Ukraine, etc. As you know, contemporary Alexa Zunic, Mr. Minister Sutanovac, boasted he had completed courses at the Marshall Center and the FBI courses. It wouldn't be a problem if he had completed the FBI's courses, if the FBI's director, the longest, had not been Mr. Edgar Hoover, who had ruled for decades. His rule, i.e. His management of the FBI remained remembered for a large number of liquidations in the U.S. Also, according to Western media, his right hand and other man Mark Felt, he was actually bribing reporters in the United States, giving them information on the Watergate affair and replacing President Nixon. What's important is that Mark Felt actually performed one surveillance operation against the President of the United States. So whoever rules the United States and pays for some NGOs in Serbia and trains, you can see from these examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25231	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government was absolutely not consistent when she wrote this bill. She suggested that the word "indicative" be replaced by the word "criminal", and then on any page of the bill to take a look everywhere you will see words such as "indications", "indication hygiene", "measures in institutions", "guards in institutions", etc. Therefore, it is clear that this bill, as well as the basic law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, refers to the execution of the sentence of imprisonment. The penalty for deprivement of freedom is carried out in the relevant institutions of the Bureau type and it is completely unclear why the Government replaces the word "industrial" with the word "criminal". In this bill of law, you have only two members relating to fines. See now what Article 175 says about the execution of fines is the court responsible for the first degree judgment. So it is clear that it is not being executed in the institutions that regulate this law, it is within the jurisdiction of the court. The deadline for payment of the fine shall be determined by a verdict. The period referred to in Article 1 shall not be less than 15 days or longer than three months. If the convict does not pay the fine within a certain time limit, the court will replace the fine with a prison sentence. It is clear, then, that the fine and its execution are not carried out according to the regulations, that is, by the provisions of this law. When you are sentenced to fines, you pay the fine by going to the bank, pay the corresponding cash amount to which the fine is yours, that amount goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and thus the fine is executed. There's no special procedure here. There's a procedure, but when a fine isn't paid, it's replaced by a prison sentence. But then, gentlemen of the Ministry, the fine is no longer fined, but the sentence of imprisonment, i.e. the sentence of imprisonment, is committed again in the institutions of the Bureau type. Anyway, what you're proposing to do is delete the word "indicative" and change the word "criminal" simply isn't a quality solution, first of all from a criminal-legal aspect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25233	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 14th amendment. Mr. Palalic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25234	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is a step backwards and in a legal and technical sense, and in a fundamental sense. There is no need to point out how important it is that the entire criminal sanctions procedure is very precise and that this internal life in institutions where criminal sanctions are carried out is precisely and clearly defined. However, this amendment is currently talking about the absence of key objectives when it comes to this law. It is this amendment, which we are trying to fix the text of the law, that indicates what this step is looking at backwards. Indeed it is not clear, we have not received any explanation, except for this argument given by the Government, that the feature to be given by the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration when it comes to his experience in the work on these affairs is no longer necessary. So, the government, in its explanation, says that a valid legal solution that requires that a person who has seven years of working experience be appointed to the director of the administration after obtaining high school training in criminal sanctions is indispensable. There's no need to say here how complex it is to run such an institution. Here you have dealings with the most serious crimes, there you have different kinds of obligations that can prevent tomorrow from returning to the execution of crimes. Now, you, in a place to run one administration, after the adoption of this law, are putting up a person who, with all due respect, can come from, say, one of the agricultural combinations, where it worked on jobs related to technology or the banking sector, which has never had any contact with criminal law, should come to run one of these administrations, where, I repeat, the persons who have committed the most serious crimes. There are cases of escape, you have a return to the execution of crimes, detentions, a series of very, very complex and perilous situations. We don't get any arguments except that it's not celery. What does that mean? I'm asking a public question here to the government -- that it will simply be appointed persons who are party-like, because otherwise it can't be explained? Perhaps there are no persons who have seven years of working experience in judicial affairs in the parties to be appointed as director, not only in matters relating to the execution of criminal sanctions, but also in the affairs of the judiciary. There are people who have had contact with this area, judges, prosecutors, lawyers. No, it might be bankers, techs, some other people from a whole other area. So we can't get any valid explanation. I wish Mr. Homen could address the National Assembly, but according to the Rules of Procedure, we can't get an explanation why. Why is a good solution, in a very sensitive business, where it takes a really great experience to run a single administration, now we're ending it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25235	The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25236	This Article 14 The draft law repeals the restriction provided for by the existing law on the type of transactions to be held by a candidate for director of the administration. The question really arises whether someone who has nine years of experience in other jobs, whether they are acting, veterinary, gynaecological affairs, can be elected director of the Administration? I know, you lie with your shoulders and you say -- it's not gonna happen, it's gonna be someone who's professional, but how do we trust you? Why don't we write it in the law? How can we trust you when, for the upcoming election of judges, the DS municipal committees were ordered to give the characteristics and names of the people to be elected judge? How can we trust you? We have that file, believe we'll show you. Now we need to consider whether it's enough for someone to work for nine years, to have nine years of work, to be the director of the Department of Bureau Sanctions. Do you know how serious this is? Do you know what kind of faces they are, what kind of people they are? What is amazing is that the amendment to Article 15, which we have proposed on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, has not been respected and you have not really understood what our intention was, because by law you are erasing the provision on the length of the term of office of the Director of Administration. The current solution is five years, and we really need to ask the question -- is someone preparing to be the director of the Office for the Consensation of Office Sanctions for life? No, here, Mr. Cosic nods, but where does it say that? Now we have a solution for five years. I know, the problem is that you can't answer this, the minister isn't here, and Mr. Milosavljevic is doing some other business, but I don't think he could give us an adequate answer to this question. What other authority, the other office in the executive authority, does not have a limit to the mandate? Give me an example in the Executive Authority, if there is one function that does not have a limit to the mandate, as you have foreseen by the draft law for the Director of Administration and I confess that you will be right. There may not be gynecologists, veterinarians, but there will be someone professional, but simply on the basis of this ill-assembled bill of law, we don't trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25237	Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word is for Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have responded to Article 14(2), so, Mr Milorad Buha's amendment, but here's Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, not to cause a problem, I can also talk about the amendment to Gordana Pop-Lazic, because the amendments are essentially identical and apply to the same problem. So, the Serbian government, which allegedly has expertise above politics, is completely losing sight of the facts of what institutions we are talking about. We're talking about institutions that execute the penalty of deprivement of freedom and where convicted persons are to be treated so that tomorrow when they get out of these prisons, they no longer commit crimes. Who's gonna take care of that? In the government's view, it's enough to have nine years of work experience anywhere, after getting higher education in second-degree studies or even in basic studies that last four years, so that you can be head of the office, head of the service, etc. These are solutions that can in practice lead to extremely negative and very dangerous consequences. We are now discussing these extremely delicate legislative proposals without adequate government representatives. We have representatives of the government who have the right to remain silent, but do not have the right to speak and have no right to tell the MPs why the bill says exactly as it says, and not otherwise. It is simply this debate that raises the question of how much does it make sense at all. Tomorrow you're going to set up, as a government, some director of an office that has nothing to do with the judiciary or the execution of criminal sanctions, no absolutely touching points of law, but it's going to show up and say, you know, I have a certain number of years of working experience, I've completed second-degree graduate academic studies, I'm a master of space technology or nuclear physics, I'm eligible to be head of the office. What does that have to do with the nature of this institution's work? There's nothing. Another danger that lies in your bill, you say-- there may be basic studies for four years. You see, gentlemen of the government, how you discriminate against the citizens of Serbia by misappropriating a poor law on higher education. Under the Law on Higher Education, basic studies can take three or four years. Imagine the situation, a citizen registers basic studies that last for three years, completely legally, the law allowed him to do so, gets a degree in completing basic studies for three years, but he can't be head of the office. Why? Because the government made an arbitration decision... (President: You have so far used time as a representative of the parliamentary group and you have used that time. Now you're going from the time of your parliamentary group, and you have 17 minutes, just so you know. ) Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I couldn't use the time of the authorised representative, because whenever I answered the word, I mentioned that I was answering...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25239	It's always been the amendment, all right. Then you should know that you are still using the time of the parliamentary groups. You have 12 minutes left from the parliamentary group, indeed. Just so you focus, you know that your MP group has 12 minutes left. Now you'll have a minute more for all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25240	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for taking care of the time of the SRS parliamentary group. I wanted to say that this is how you put in a discriminatory position for the citizens of Serbia. So now the one who has completed the basic studies that lasts for three years cannot come to the office of the director of the office, and the one who has the basic studies for four years can, and the other have legally completed those basic studies. So these solutions in practice can indeed lead, on the one hand, to the violation of the basic civil rights of the person who is running for these functions, on the other hand, you have completely lost sight of the expertise, experience, knowledge that must be owned by citizens who claim to be directors of the office. Just to remind you, gentlemen of the government, according to the sad statistics of our courts, the perpetrators of crimes in the Republic of Serbia are 65% returnees, therefore, those who have already committed a crime. This means that the re-examination program in our institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions has not produced adequate results. We can imagine what the results will be when the directors of the institute are gynecologists, technologists, agronomists, veterinarians, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25241	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Nenad Konstantinovic's amendment to Article 22 was accepted by the government and the Committee on Law, so that he became an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government has, for my entirely unknown reasons, made one true terminology in this bill of law. In Article 23, the term "examination programme" is replaced by the words "action programme". It's completely out of the sight of what it is, what it is, the process that happens in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. Do we treat people like things or do we want to re-evaluate them so they don't commit crimes tomorrow? If it is to judge the terminology used by the government, the purpose of the execution of criminal sanctions is to treat convicted persons, not to question them, but to treat them. One termology that is absolutely not in the spirit of some basic criminological and penological principles. So, living people, gentlemen of the government, are not treated like things, like objects. Living people who have committed crimes, they are being questioned, they are going through a certain educational program, to gain certain social and moral values, which they did not have at one time in their lives, so they have committed a crime, so that tomorrow they do not repeat these crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25243	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25244	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, referring to counterpart Martinovic, who well explained that people are not things, New Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 23, as I said, because it is practically a single violation of the law here. Namely, the director of the administration makes a solution and moves the convicted person to another institution because he believes that he will be better educated there, and that is where he will be treated better. It's in the spirit of this right now that you can see why we're not talking about retraining anymore, we're talking about treatment. We treat people here. So the three-day term left to a convicted person to complain, to use his right, is not acceptable. The reason is that it is necessary to leave the possibility of a longer period of appeal, which is more comprehensive and justified and thus respects the legal time limit laid down in the administrative procedure. A person who endures a sentence in such situations, among other things, should leave enough time for practical reasons to communicate, consult with a domicile defender who defended a convicted person during the proceedings or with another defender. What's the three-day deadline? If that's justified for a convicted person, he'll do it after 12 hours, if he can. Your explanation for why this amendment has not been accepted is scandalous. So, of course, here the appeal does not retain execution, but leave the possibility of a convicted person taking advantage of his right in a legal time that is adequate for him to absolutely protect himself. Col. Martinovic said nicely that the purpose of the execution of these criminal sanctions is that people should be raised and that they do not commit crimes in the future. What's the message we send with a three-day deadline and we don't respect the law? That's my message, so I'm really sorry the minister isn't here, but I hope you'll pass on. You have to respect the law if you want other people to respect the law, from these persons who are convicted. Simply, the three-day deadline is extremely short, unacceptable, and this is something that I completely understand is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25245	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25246	With this amendment, we ask that something that appears as a pathological mistake since the DOS is in power, because the state itself, the individual has become a state, the minister is not only the head of a state body, but he is a cheerful and dresser. You don't accept it, it doesn't matter that much, because it's already so detached. However, it is important for the public, I don't know, I guess Milan Obradovic is still the director of the administration for the execution of these institute sanctions and probably the biggest recommendation that he is there is that he was a man in prison in support of some prison sentence or some detention. In this amendment of yours, it is not clear to me at all what is the nearest regulation on the process of sending persons deprived of liberty? Here is the question of how to refer a convicted person to a prison sentence, and here you are talking about persons deprived of freedom. I don't know what that's all about. What's main, what the public needs to know, and as far as Article 31 is concerned, a program of conduct should force those who are on a prison sentence to adopt socially acceptable values. Now you tell me – what the person who has been convicted and at the maintenance of the prison, who may be watching this transmission, should accept as a socially acceptable value. To have Homen in power, that those who bombed us, killed us, are now promoters of life in the Republic of Serbia, such as NATO Pacts and others, or something to accept as socially acceptable, what happens in a direct environment in the room or in a facility where the prison is maintained? How do you get a cell phone, how do Bensedini, who gets a visit, when he gets a visit, what does he have to do? Are there socially acceptable values that we could show someone as real values? Is the real social acceptable value of this harassment in the National Assembly, which seven laws need to be completed urgently because Europe has no alternative? Do you have any system of values to promote, other than the system of values, that you work for foreigners to harm your people? Say more: that is what the people desire, a vote for you. What are those values? The face of the deprived of liberty makes a provision. What regulation does that make? What's the name of that regulation? I guess the point is some kind of general act is to sort something out. No, we now have regulations based on literary works and this amendment and addition of this law only shows us that these now, who cheer and dress in the Ministry of Justice and which are currently located in America, at the outset, in new instructions, are putting in rules and a system of dealings with closed persons in Guantanamo prison. By voting for this, you're voting for Guantánamo. Not to mention Vojislav Seselj, who has been in custody for seven years, that I do not remind you of the fact that our Constitutional Court, too very often, considering constitutional complaints from citizens, finds a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. What are you doing, where are you taking this country? What is first – your chair, your position and installing something that doesn't matter? Obama's fighting in America against this, so he's coming up against the resistance. What's Obama worth fighting in America when it's a force? Now, that force is represented here, both Homen and Neca and Peca, and Maca and Caca, all these resistances who came to do a little documenting this Serbia, because it wasn't 99th, and the 99th didn't end because they didn't enter with the infantry, so they installed the infantry both in power and in opposition. Remember what anyone said a year ago, so you see where they are now, who's kissing the laps, who's where they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25247	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25248	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, somewhere in the early 1990s there was a political joke, or an anecdote that HDZ meant Croatia to Zemun. However, I think that this government has defined itself as a little broader concept, so Croatia has also come to see Nemanja Street, or to the justice ministry headquarters. I don't know, Mr. Homen, I'm asking you, because there is no Mrs. Malovic here, how is it possible that you adopted Tudjman's erroneous Croatian new speech in the bill of law. Now, the adoptive, respected citizens of Serbia are no longer the adoptor, he is the adoptor. Then you must change thousands of laws in Serbia. Then the defense attorney is no longer a defense attorney, but a defense attorney, then this one is your Wolfevic who hangs pictures of Carla del Ponte no longer a prosecutor, but a prosecutor. Then you have a situation where you have to change the full way of expression in Serbia. What are you doing? So your minister, Bradic, came to the Serbian Parliament the other day and said, "Dear gentlemen, MPs and nothing." Now, I couldn't believe it, I thought it was a printing mistake, but then I see -- no, you wanted to change the terminology on purpose, for my entirely unknown reasons. The adoptive, the defender, the prosecutor, the viewer, become viewers, prosecutors, defenders, adoptors. I don't know what you're going to think of next, bringing Mark Perkovic-Thompson to Maracan. It is not enough that he sang in Zagreb and that all of Vojvodina saw it, so bring him to Serbia, and let people see him in Leskovec, and in Vranj, and in Piroth, and in Nis, and in Šapac and Valjevo. I don't know what you're doing. However, I have heard that former Croatian chief Ivo Sanader has promised to give you thousands and thousands of translated Croatian laws to speed up your EU accession. I don't know if it was honest or if it was a false promise from an old Latin fox.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25249	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that the words "Minister in power" in Article 32 be replaced by the words "Minister in power". The minister cannot and should not be in charge of any issues under this or other law, even if he is a minister, he cannot be above the ministry of state authority. The ministry is a body that is responsible for both the Constitution and the State Administration Act, as well as the Ministry Act. Unfortunately, it is common in Serbia that ministers are placed above their ministries and that individuals consider themselves to be the smartest, most important, and that they should be in charge of all things, for all areas of importance. This puts all the ministries in a subordinate position, as I read the team that works in them. All acts signed by the minister are acts by the ministry, not by the minister as an individual, which is another indicator that exactly the ministry is what needs to be competent. Excessive powers are needlessly given to individuals. The law states that the justice minister is responsible for the regulation on clothing, clothing, laundry and bed linen. Is the minister so professional and so great a knowledge of the above mentioned things in this article of the law that he alone can pass a regulation and not a ministry? It's unacceptable for us. The government's explanation for not accepting the amendments states that according to the State Administration Act, it is prescribed that the ministry be run by a minister. It's not disputed that the minister is in charge, but I don't think he should be in charge of anything at all. The SRS advocates that the ministry, which is a permanent institution, be responsible for the adoption of these rules and therefore I propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25251	The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25252	I've submitted an amendment to article 34. Article 34 states, among other things, that for the purpose of taking into account correspondence in the Office of a closed type with special security, the Office of a closed type and the closed department of the Office on a proposal from the Head of the Office or Director of the Administration, the Court of First Instance shall be responsible in the seat of the Office. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is: not the first-degree court at the head office, but the court that delivered the first-degree verdict makes a decision to oversee the letters. If such jobs were to be transferred to the courts in which the head office is based, their work on other cases would be burdened and slowed. Since the first-degree court in the seat, for example, is the institution of a closed type with special security, such as Pogorjevac, responsible for the supervision of letters to the person convicted by the District Court in Zajecar, and the person has a residence in Valjevo and to the maintenance of the sentence is directed by the municipality, the basic court tomorrow, in Valjevo, for example. which has delivered a first-degree ruling, it would be logical, since according to the provisions of the ZKP for parole, we address these courts, that they too may see when we talk about these correspondence when those persons are concerned. It is very incorrect that such good amendments, which are essential and lifelike, are not accepted. It remains unclear at all, what is essentially this system of judicial reform. What is this system of judicial reform that when we talked about the laws on the territory of the courts, which have been applied since 1 January, the Society of Judges is not consulted at all? What kind of justice reform is it when we pass such important laws, such as the CAP or the Criminal Law, where a huge lobby such as a lawyer's lobby is absolutely not consulted, and that in the election of judges who are under way, since you have magically avoided the representatives of lawyers being in the High Council and the State Council of Prosecutors, so you all do everything you can to place party personnel on these functions and bring complete confusion to the full judicial system. I'll tell you the judges are in complete chaos. They don't even know what fate awaits them by the end of this year. Citizens who need to exercise their right do not know who or how they will turn to. A hundred kilometers away, some people will have to go after Serbia to exercise their right. What a way it is to change so much in one year, and practically the representatives of the profession on the other side that should protect citizens do not consult for such laws at all. Are you aware that such serious laws are practically put into practice in seven days? Did you know that the judges didn't even know that this CAP was going to be on the agenda? Are you aware that there are no consultations, no public debates have been held, and something is being introduced into the judicial system which is extremely important, and if you think that the number of laws that will bring us into the EU is very wrong. When you are sometimes or when one of the EU's representatives stares at the way you make the laws, they'll get sick of it. This is something that certainly does not agree with the values of Europe in which we all want one day, but in a dignified way. Imagine you when representatives of the Bar Association send a letter to Serbia to international legal organisations how and how they are avoided when it comes to proposals from these laws that are on the agenda. You see, you've only given us 15 minutes in practical terms to discuss seven laws here in particular authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. It's unacceptable, it's a shame and I think that very soon some things will have to change. If criminal laws are treated this way, indeed, this government has nothing to look for and I think it is ripe time for the government to thank the citizens of Serbia and resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25253	The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have requested that in Article 37, which is amended in Article 78 following the newly proposed position of 1st, another position be added that the court which passed the first-degree verdict may also be condemned to grant visits to other persons. The proposer of this law, or government, has refused my amendment and you can see with what explanation. Article 78 of the current regulation prescribes one of the fundamental rights of a convicted person, the right to visit, I do not see where in my amendment I dispute or prevent such a single right, while Article 2 provides for the possibility of extending that right to a proposal from the Head of the Office. Even that attitude, which in case my amendment were accepted, would become attitude 3, I'm not contesting, but I'm contesting the next thing you wrote. By prescribing that the court that reached the first-degree verdict may condemn other persons' visits to the court is inadmissible, i.e. Not applicable in practice. Now that we here have authorised representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer the next question - do we have more prisons or more municipal and county courts in Serbia, do we have more judges or prison administrators, so let's see what is inapplicable and impossible in practice. If we put a few numbers on the table, check them out a little bit, we'll see that the explanation is pretty stupid. You can ask yourself why that is. First, when it comes to the judge, or the court, and the judge thereof, it is a constitutional category, part of the judicial authority provided for in the Constitution. What's the warden of prison? The warden of the prison is the most ordinary state official of the executive government. The warden of the prison is appointed by the Administration for the Enforcement of Institutional Sanctions, appointed by the Ministry of Justice. So absolute executive power can have an impact on the work of the warden of some criminal correctional institutions, or order him to do what he doesn't do and what he doesn't do. I'm sorry, when you write something like this that really doesn't seem like a factual state, you're questioning me that maybe it's the goal of a minister or another official in the government that one of the press or a lawyer, or another employee, comes into contact with organized crime members who are serving a prison sentence. The reason is simple, such a convict, and the experience tells us in the last ten years that so, they have certain contacts with political circles. If he tells the family and I gave it money, it doesn't matter, the family will even lie for its member, but if he tells someone who can write it, whose word has some importance in the Serbian public, then that's the problem. In this way, as foreseen by the law, if someone could come up with some evidence, and someone's not in charge of who's in power, that happens, through the warden, they can stop it. When it comes to the judge, it's a little harder, because the judges choose the Assembly and resolve the Assembly, and you can even try to resolve a judge, but then here you risk public debate why you're doing it. I don't see any real reason why this amendment was rejected. He's keeping all those provisions you predicted. Only this possibility of someone taking advantage of their right is being transferred to another state body that should represent, after the Serbian Parliament, the highest power in Serbia, and certainly needs to be independent, which we cannot say for the warden of the prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25255	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 43 is related to Article 102. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions. It's amazing how much DS can and the best idea can totally ruin. Article 102 of the Basic Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions discusses the treatment of convicted persons, and two attitudes have been added, where it is said to be able to educate a special department for the withdrawal of psychoactive substances. Sometimes the use of psychoactive substances by a person who is found in the maintenance of a prison sentence can affect the execution of crimes at a good rate. So that's something that's good. But you are predicting in the next position that closer regulations on this should be brought by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. I personally believe the SRS has the opinion that a joint operation of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice is needed here. One responsible job cannot be left to an individual, and that is quite irresponsible, and the best evidence of that is today's session of the National Assembly, where someone, whose personal qualifications the SRS has no doubts about, but competence does not exist to be able to discuss what is on the agenda today. A minister like that sat here for only ten minutes or half an hour. Now we're going to give individual jurisdiction something that's very important and that wasn't a bad idea. I think this amendment should be accepted. Since there are no representatives of the government, I urge all eight MPs of the assembly majority to accept this amendment to the SRS in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25257	The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25258	In article 45, the minister in charge is replaced by the words - the ministry responsible. So neither is the ministry headed by the minister his personal property or his homeland or his heritage, nor are those acts signed by the minister as a civil servant his personal property, his copyright, already acts by the competent ministry. The amendment is both principled and essential. It is based on the Constitution of Serbia, the Law on Ministrys and the Law on State Administration. Why does an individual who is at the head of a state organ constantly stand out and stretch? Why do we have "skilled" ministers who, after every election, rotate around the axis called the government becoming ministers of general affairs, with results from zero to minus infinitely? Why? So that time would build a cult of someone else's personality. So, for example, to make this congregation incompetent, expendable, unnecessary. So, for example, for the president to be all-knowing, all-powerful, all-needing. So, as you can see, everyone has their own, and therefore not the minister, but the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25259	The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 63rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is simply no medical reason to maintain the position of the Government contained in Article 63(3). The Hiva virus and the hepatitis C virus are, as far as I know, transient. The government, when it comes to testing the Hiva virus and hepatitis C, says the will of the convicted person depends on whether he undergoes a medical examination to determine whether he has the virus or not. I guess the health of convicted persons is more than the individual will of a convict. The SRS believes that testing the Hiva virus and the hepatitis C virus is a function of providing healthy living conditions in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. He believes that the health care of convicted persons is something to pay particular attention to and that the health care of convicts should not in any way depend on the evil or good will of a convicted person, who needs to undergo a doctor's examination to determine whether there is a Hiva virus or a hepatitis C virus. I am saying this in the light of all the tragic consequences these two viruses can cause and which unfortunately cause human health.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25261	Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to article 73 and wants to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already talked about the law on the execution of criminal sanctions actually being sanctioned, and that's the penalty for deprivement of freedom. In Article 73, we proposed that the title - The execution of fines be replaced by the title - Replacement of fines with prison and fines in the public interest. That's what's regulated by this law. The execution of a prison sentence, which may be imposed as a basic penalty or as a penalty to replace the fine, but an unpaid fine. That makes sense. To enforce fines under the Criminal Penalty Act is neither possible nor in practice. You heard how the fine was executed. When one day you are sentenced to fines, you go to the bank, you pay the right amount and the fine is executed. There's no special procedure here. You have a set of technical stores -- open the bank door, you say -- good day to the employees, take out the money and pay. There's no special legal procedure here. There is a legal procedure, but only when the fine is not paid, so it is replaced by a prison sentence, and then that sentence is carried out under the provisions of this law, so the relevant institutions must provide adequate housing for those persons, adequate hygiene, health care. There's some kind of house order rule, etc. But it has nothing to do with fines anymore, it has to do with jail time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25263	The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25264	The amendment to Article 83 is the same as the amendment to Article 48, which the SRS submitted. Since we have noticed that DS MPs are having serious consultations on voting day for the amendment, and we are clear that the authorities on behalf of Serbian citizens are carrying out irresponsible individuals and that we want to discipline them a little bit, and we need just one more explanation to do to them to vote in favour of this amendment. The Constitution, the State Administration Act and the Ministry Act recognise the ministry as a state body, but not a minister as an elder of that body. Given, once again, that the government in the same troubled Serbia is carrying out irresponsible individuals in the name of Serbian citizens, we believe that this should be done by the ministry instead of the minister, especially as this is about the trustee responsible for the execution of the fine in the public interest and it would be good to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25265	Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee has not declared itself correcting the amendments. On Article 114, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 114th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been given the opportunity to take part in this interactive debate, especially from the government's representatives, and to make a modest contribution, although I am not from this legal profession. With my amendment, I suggested that the deadlines the government had set for the adoption of sublaws from six months to three months. It is now unimaginable, on the one hand, that the government has proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure. This justified the fact that the possible failure of this law that we are discussing could produce adverse consequences for the country and the people. On the other hand, such a luxury allows itself to adopt sublegal acts that will allow the law to be applied in six months. It's really hypocritical and pointless. Perhaps, truth be told, our expectations that you would accept this amendment were too ambitious, but when an analysis is made of the course of the session from the beginning until now, absolutely by rejecting this amendment into all of this. If you were really willing to one way and the ministers who represent that government in some way are kicking out, if I can put it that way, in the Assembly, you won't mind me, just so you can move on to the next item of the agenda, then you could really understand and accept and give us a contribution, so that these European ambitions of Serbia, European processes and procedures are accelerated, at least in this area of crime, criminal acts. What really chokes the state, chokes, and somehow doesn't give in in the last nine years for a moment. That's why I think so, and I wish there was one of the government's representatives, maybe after these two minutes I'd convince him, but I won't take the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25267	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organization and Judita Popović, Sladjan Mijaljević, Zoran Krasić, Dejan Mirović, Milorad Buha, Petar Jojic, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Boris Aleksic, Aleksandar Martinović, Bozidar Delić and Zoran Antić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) An MP, Judita Popovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Munjic. Would you like a word, Mr. Lightning? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25268	In Article 10(1), the words “the Prosecutor’s Office for Organized Crime” shall be replaced by the words “the Prosecutor’s Office for the Control of Organized Crime”. With this amendment, we wanted to remove one suspicion that may arise by interpreting the term - the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, as you state in the bill. Why doubt? The interpretation of the term – the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, someone who may be slightly ill-intentioned or ignorant, etc., can interpret it as the prosecution for the promotion of organised crime, the prosecution for the covert of organised crime, the prosecution for the cultivation of the tradition of organised crime, etc. I'm probably interpreting him as you are, and that's the D.A.'s Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime. It's just, unlike you, I'm asking that it's in the bill. So, the D.A.'s Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime. Until a few days ago, I was inclined to believe that you had made an oversight and that it was a purely linguistic, or termological malfunction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25269	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I assume that you now see your responsibility for the previous two days when you have kicked the authorized ministers out of this House of People's. That's when you said, "He'll talk," he'll explain when there's a debate in detail. Now here's a good demention for you. We are now discussing several criminal laws, to call them by such a unique name, no one represents the Government, which is not an excluded possibility that it will happen on the day that they are on the agenda, those laws whose representatives you are, and as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are coming out of this room. I proposed on behalf of the SRS the amendment to Article 12, where instead of the word "police affairs" stands for "internal affairs". That's denied. The government did not accept that amendment. And that you do not want at all in an interactive way, as my colleague Dragan Stevanovic likes to say, that you are discussing with the MPs of the SRS, in the best way, you are denied the position of the 3rd member of the 12th law, which is said to be the minister responsible for internal affairs, according to the minister in charge of police affairs. In order for these laws to make sense, it should be uniform, that the text is acceptable and understandable to those who will read and apply it. It would be perfectly normal and well to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25271	Mrs. Malovic was here all the time when we discussed in principle, the Ministry's representative is here, there was a detailed debate on the board. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the Penal Code for Criminal Penalty for Criminal Works of ORGANISED CRIMINAL (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Petar Jojić, Nenad Konstantinović, Aleksandar Martinović, Vladan Batić, Sladjan Mijaljević, Boris Aleksic, Sreto Perić, Together Milica Radović, Miroslav Petković, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Vjerica Rade, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Momar Marković, Dusan Marić, together Milica Radović and Miroslav Petković and together Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Nenad Konstantinović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25272	The SRS opposes the position of the promoters, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and through the Ministry of Justice – that persons employed in special departments can be transferred to work, and according to the proposal of the warden, to other places, as employment is seen here at risk. We have a situation that judges can no longer count on respecting constitutional provisions. Now employees of sanctioning offices cannot also be sure of their jobs. The Palic's "save your jobs with poles" can no longer seem to be implemented and realised. If there are certain transfers for employees in special departments, then it will cause high financial and economic costs for the taxpayers of Serbia and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, from the point of view of the SRS Article 6. The proposal for this law is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25273	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. He's got Mrs. Milica Radovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25274	When it comes to this bill, we feel that its adoption was necessary. We are also surprised by the Ministry of Justice's slowness in preparing this bill. In fact, we know that the special department for the execution of prison sentences in Zabela, that its construction has long been completed and that is why we are very surprised by the fact that we are now getting this legislative proposal and that it is only now put on the agenda. I won't look too far at the time I have as an authorised representative in terms of the interpretation of these amendments. I'll just say that this department is able to receive somewhere, according to our data we've managed to get, about 100 convicted persons. If this adds to the information that 35 organised crime groups and their 360 members operate in Serbia, and if information is added that 360 people are certainly very interesting in Serbia, then it is very easy to conclude that this capacity of a special prison sentence will not be enough. It is also necessary to add information that in all prisons in Serbia today, the prison term is around 10,260 convicted persons, offenders and detainees, and that the real capacity of all prisons in Serbia is 7,000 convicted persons, if we want to comply with all European standards. In addition to a series of amendments, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 6, considering that the time of six months for sending employees to a special ward to execute prison sentences is insufficient and that it is short-term. So within six months, the person employed in the special department will not be able to properly get acquainted with the habits of the convicts themselves, which would in the end not only facilitate their work, but would also have an impact on the degree of security in the very special department for the execution of prison sentences. That's why we think this time of six months is extremely short. It would be necessary to extend, even if the fact is added to this, that persons who are assigned to a special sentence department must undergo special preparations, as it is, remember, working with the most demanding category of convicted persons, the most difficult category of convicted persons, to the longest criminal sentences of prison, even up to 40 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25275	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25276	I asked the amendment to delete Article 7 on the grounds that the applicable Criminal Penalty Law accurately prescribes the working conditions of employees in prison institutions. Obviously, this is about an imposed bill. The final position of Article 1 also points to this. The draft law, which states - if the provisions of this law are not otherwise prescribed, shall apply accordingly to the application of the provisions of the Code on the enforcement of criminal sanctions by the person referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. You know, ladies and gentlemen, a nice and true Chinese proverb is -- the more laws, the more thieves. Whether it can be applied to us, let the citizens of Serbia judge. You boast and constantly potentiate the number of laws you have passed and which should only be passed. But is this crucial? Is this the most important thing? Is that number crucial or much more important in the quality of these laws, as well as the fact that they are respected? It is clear that here is a rule – what is worth galloping if you are moving in the opposite direction. You obviously don't go that way that people would want you to. You need to get down on the ground. You just need to get out of the dark cars. Those darkened windows seem to give you the wrong shadow, to give you the wrong idea of the world around you, and down on earth, believe me, there are common human troubles waiting for you – solve them until it's too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25277	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Mr. Jovan Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25278	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have also, when the debate on amendments to the Code on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has indicated that in some solutions, this law goes a step backwards, especially when it comes to Article 14 concerning the working experience of the Director of the Office for the Enforcement of Institutional Sanctions. Then counterpart Milica Radovic said the problem relating to a member of the 6th law, to employees who refer to special departments, where criminal sanctions are sustained by persons convicted of the most serious crimes, specifically for the crimes of organised crime, and that those persons are referred to for six months. Now you have in Article 7 a solution that brings the whole story back again, which is – that the director can simply solve the problem of those persons by making a solution that their work in the special department will cease before that six-month period. Then in the position of the 4th member to this solution, which shall be brought by the Director, the appeal which shall be referred shall not delay the execution of the solution. It's really not possible in an adequate way to explain it. I do regret that the minister of justice is not here or someone who knows the matter of the judiciary at all, to explain to us – what is the purpose of such solutions when it comes to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and when it comes to this law that defines the execution of sanctions for persons convicted of organised crime. It all kind of shrinks, narrows down, everything that's necessary, expertise, the possibility of getting to know the problems. Imagine now that director appointed without professional training for the director of the administration, who came out of nowhere from some completely fifth profession, which should determine which employees will work in a special department. So, first he has to make a choice of these people, and then when he sets them up there, then he just analyzes them, and maybe he'll put someone away. Based on what criteria? We don't see anything in article 7. It's something that really indicates that the government had no clear concept of how to regulate the entire criminal sanctions enforcement system. We think that at least we should give the possibility, in addition to this criticism that the six-month deadline is very small, that it is such complex business and with convicts who have committed such serious crimes, that at least the senior body will review that complaint. As for this unprofessional director, whom you plan to place in the management of the administration – I would say, you see him as some manager of the criminal sanctions administration, it can be anyone, enough to run somewhere, so he can be the manager, manage one administration – that you can at least give the possibility of that appeal being reconsidered. Perhaps the man was wrong, that future, possible banker or someone who came from the agricultural sphere, may have made a mistake when he made the decision to make the deadline less than six months. Please respect this amendment, so simply at least in the part that can be corrected, correct this article, and it is best to accept all the DSS amendments and how many texts of this law you fix. Once again, I don't know who wrote the explanation of this amendment, but every time you don't have an adequate response to the amendment, you say - that solution is not complete. If cellulity or indifference covers all your failures to get in trouble, then it's a really big question how can judicial reform be reformed in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25279	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25280	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to repeat several times the SRS' position on the DOS system's organisation of justice. We are opposed to the Americanization and tribunalisation of our judicial system, and that also means these specialised courts and prosecutors for organised crime, for war crimes. The position of the SRS is that these jobs can be done in regular courts and the consequence of such an attitude is the proposal to delete Article 9. The draft law on the execution of a prison sentence for organised crime, because the positive, or applicable law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is precisely prescribed by the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities in the procedure of the execution of a prison sentence and this bill of yours actually violates the uniform system of execution of a prison sentence. We don't know what motivated you to pass this special law. Do you think for certain crimes people should be treated differently when they are in prison? We in the SRS think that all must respect the fundamental human rights that guarantees them, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, for the crimes committed, they should also receive adequate criminal sanctions, but no specific treatments, and here is obviously done in a negative sense -- special treatments, should not be applied to any inmate in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25281	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25282	Of course, the modern trend is right about unification and codification, and with us we have decommissioning. We're represented by something else, so the facility doesn't have to be established by some law or institute, but the special department probably has to, because that's the way of thinking that comes through the representatives of that Anglo-Saxon school. This is all unnecessary, because the question is asked -- how are you going to resociate a person who was involved in a criminal event as a member of an organized group? How are you going to perform his resociation? By building two levels underground in Zabela, where you would keep these people as beasts and show your friends from abroad and show something they already have at home. I think that's the wrong way. You don't see any specificity here as to how a prison sentence is executed. I think it's a matter of executing a prison sentence that needs to be solved within the Code of Criminal Penalty, of course, by respecting certain specificities, there are both domestic order and some other things, something that penology knows, and this is kind of a hint of some torture, hints of anger toward some people. Because we're in the middle of a situation where one mob is changing the other mafia. When the other mob comes to power, it cracks on that previous mob. That's what we had at the Zemun-Surcian clan and other clans. You think this can act as a fear of who's committed to committing crime? No, it won't act like fear, this will serve you as some kind of legitimacy for Euro-Atlantic integration until you're in the Atlantic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25283	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25284	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment recommending that Article 13 be deleted. For the sake of time, I will not read the explanation of this amendment, and I will not read any explanation that the Government has rejected this amendment, because I honestly believe that neither, at the very least, matters. What's the big deal here? It is important whether there is a political will in Serbia that the state is finally dealing with organised crime, with real organised crime, with the Serbian-run mafia and which treats Serbia literally as its own. Not with that boranium you're arresting in the light of the reflector, with the TV cameras, but with the real criminals who were robbed on the set-up, in the robbery privatisation acquired property that a normal man can't acquire for one 1,869 lives. Since you are constantly claiming that the fight against organised crime is a priority of this government, I ask that today, before the citizens of Serbia, a representative of the government say whether the next citizens of Serbia will be hit: Miroslav Miskovic, Zoran Hamovic, Predrag Rankovic Peconi, Milan Beko, Stanko Subotic Cane, the one from Hotel "Ric", Petar Matic, Vojin Lazarevic, Miodrag Kostic, Zoran Drakulic and Dragoljub Markovic. To finally clear the dilemma, did the tycoons, mobsters who robbed Serbia, claim one, or a capable businessman, who carried crates and performed similar productive businesses earn property that is measured by tens of millions and billions of euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25285	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic. Mr. Jojic, do you want a word? Unfortunately, my options are limited to your wishes. Do you have a card, Mr. Jojic? Just press a big button once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25286	As far as this law, its contents, proposals and norms are concerned, a derogation from the basic principles of what organised crime is. At first, the promoters felt that organised crime was primarily in the area of those crimes which were as such the most severe and for which the most severe punishment was prescribed. However, it gave way. It stands down and now you have such a situation that in a group of these crimes is mostly settled and what is needed and what is not needed. You will now have a situation that you will have perpetrators of the crimes of the Bosniaks, hens and cyclists, therefore, who steal bicycles, who steal chickens and who steal bostan. What does that mean? For what is the sentence of prison supposed to be maybe four years or more severe punishment? Whoever steals two or three armored trailers can also be charged with organized crime by a public prosecutor if three of them went to this theft. The criminal law had previously provided for quite different provisions and the severity of criminal acts that should be considered organised crime. This is how everything is possible now to subdue under this category and thus judge both who they are and who they don't need for organized crime. So, if organised crime is considered a socially dangerous crime and it is a group of serious crimes, then it is necessary to seek a proportion between a threatened sentence and a primarily protected good. That is why I believe that this proposal, designed like this, is absolutely not in proportion to it, and it violates and undermines for decades but a built legal system in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25287	The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made two identical amendments, and I have not received an answer, identical in terms of content. I don't know why there's a graduation and a difference between a male and a female. I guess that's because there are no conditions in some institutions where punishments should be maintained, but it can't be in the law. There can't be a constitutional difference between citizens based on gender differences, it doesn't exist anywhere. That's what I'm saying from practice. Twenty percent of the people who are being tried for organized crime are women, and I don't know where I got the idea of a male sex. You can have a bigger criminal woman than any other man. When I took the floor, since I was a minister of justice at the time with my team, we are the creators of a special court and prosecutor's office for organised crime, I am responsible for telling you that although this is the most respectable part of the judiciary, it has become the manner of declaring everything and everything to be declared organized crime. Half those people who serve as members of a criminal group, it's not even in the jurisdiction of a real municipal court, so that you see those faces that don't know the street by themselves. Some women, accounting chiefs, cashiers in some companies, have nothing to do with their brains, and now they're being sued by members of this or that mob, this or that criminal group. It's not the legislator's idea. This disqualifies and completely devalues the institution of organised crime that means it in the Western world, where we have in some way taken over certain provisions, since some forms and forms of crime there have already had a long tradition. (President: Time. I thank you. Excuse me. Since I missed the time for a similar amendment, I overstepped a little. So I am for humanity to women's sexes, but I can't make that graduation artificially in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25289	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25290	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must support Mr Batic's amendment to which he spoke earlier, because we really think it is inadmissible that the draftr of the law did not foresee accommodation for the female and that it would be the only argument why a female would not be found in a special department. This draft law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime is at least problematic because it is not in all its provisions in accordance with the Criminal Penal Code. I'm not really sure that the minister, as well as the associates who have studied the prison European rules here, have been invited by the minister in the principle debate to this book, but the fact is that some of the provisions that are written here have not been implemented in the draft of this law. In Article 17 of the proposed text, we are talking about a warrant for the execution of a sentenced to the maintenance of the sentence and that it is predicted that the order is referred to the institution where the penalty should be maintained, which speaks of a great risk, we will agree, when transporting the convicted or more convicted persons, as security workers are trained to work in the framework of the institution, not for certain skills they need when transporting convicts to a particular institution. What is surprising is that the bill does not provide for a police escort sentenced to a special ward in Zabela. The DSS parliamentary group, by its amendment, I think in a highly correct and comprehensive manner, has tried to overcome this failure by saying that a warrant for the execution of a prison sentence to a special department is delivered to the MUP, whose members carry out the implementation. So we don't have to read again in the papers how some convicts, some new trials, or institutions, in certain bushes, bushes, along the way, I don't know how many guns, how many bombs and everything else. If this job is done without members of the MUP, we believe that there will be major problems, and I'm sure none of us do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25291	The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25292	We have submitted an amendment to Article 19 which says that the President of the Court, or an authorised judge, is being questioned on official duty after two years of the initiation of a prison sentence in a special department, whether these reasons continue to exist. I think the solution provided for in this article is, at the very least, inconsistencies. It is simply not appropriate, because it should not be forgotten that convicted persons are being convicted of the most serious crimes, in which they are persons convicted and sentenced to prison for up to 40 years. With the consistent application of such a member, as provided for in Article 1, we can easily get into a situation where a person sentenced to 40 years in prison after two years is released to a prison sentence in some normal institution. The question arises what is the purpose of a special department to execute a prison sentence in the first place. If a person is going to be sent to a normal institution after just two years from the start of a prison sentence, then what is a special department for the execution of criminal sanctions anyway? Of course, it is important to note that we, in this amendment, and later and later through other amendments, are going through our own intention, which we find very justified, which is in the extreme case of limiting time or predicting the time after which the person can be possibly deployed, if he meets all the conditions, being released from a special ward and sent to a normal correctional home, means not the one who specializes in the category of most serious convicts for criminal offences. We predicted it, that time was one half of the suspended sentence. We believe that this deadline is more than appropriate, that it is only then to be analysed and that all circumstances of a convicted person's rule in a special category are taken into account, means in a special department for the execution of criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25293	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25294	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly for the sake of time, I would really support what my colleague Radovic said. It's about people who have been convicted of the most serious crimes, and I really don't understand the need for a proposal that for someone who got 40 years in prison after two years is being questioned whether there are reasonable reasons for him to execute his prison sentence in a special ward. It's not a glimmer dungeon, so now they're going to be subjected there, I don't know what kind of trouble they're going to be, so after two years, we can discuss it. Accept that this department was founded precisely for the perpetrator of the most serious crimes and we believe that at least half of the suspended sentence is the first condition, after the expiry of that time it can be debated whether to be a person transferred to another institution. Also, you can't see it in this law, and even if it changes after two years, he can come into an open-minded office. So it's completely, completely abnormal and inadmissible that in such a way you predict it in the law. Come on, whoever gets the punishment for the monstrosity he's committed, after half the punishment he's endured, can be considered the possibility of him being transferred to another prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25295	Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Mr. Palalic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25296	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now in the position of Article 11, going on and it's just amazing what degree some things are leading to absurdity. Now we've been discussing attitude 1 here and, of course, we've asked the question justifiably, whether at all after two years of staying in a special department for persons who have committed the most serious crimes, we need to review their continued stay here, now we come up with another exception, with nothing explained, which, in the government's explanation, is thought to be a rare situation. So this is where a new right is given, discretionaryly, to this warden, the new director of the Bureau of Criminal Penalty, which will not be a lawyer, so that on his proposal we can examine the further stay of this person a year from the start of the sentence. It is amazing that one person who has committed such serious crimes, which we have agreed together to define as criminal acts in the field of organised crime, that in this law we have provided for a special department for their maintenance, and now the Government, proposing a solution for the director to be an unprofessional person, gives him such great authority to suggest that he assess only after one year on the basis of which criteria that such a person should not be in a special department. We can't imagine the situation if this is how the judiciary goes, the new judge, the unprofessional director, that the President of the Court won't make such a decision. Here lies the possibility of large abuses, that some persons who have committed such crimes may come out of a special ward after just a year. I am warning here both the professional public and the government that right through Article 19, especially through Article 2, they are completely degraded by all these provisions concerning the special department, which are pompously explained in public at the large door. I point out once again - by following the course, as the director's position at the Department of Criminal Penalty is being appointed, giving them powers in the case of the transfer of employees to a special department, when it comes to the possibility of proposing that persons who have committed such serious crimes come out of a special department, there is one danger that such persons who lead these administrations come into a situation that, because of their intricacies and that because of something other person who committed the most serious crimes, they come into a privileged position, even though it was not an intensification of this law. I ask the Government to accept this amendment, to delete Article 2, and it would be best to accept the amendment to Article 19, paragraph 1, which explained my colleagues and that this whole Article 19, which is extremely problematic, disappears from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25297	National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 24th amendment. Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25298	The amendment we have submitted to Article 24 follows the logic of the amendments submitted to Article 19. We here, in fact, specify what time it is after which it can be decided to deploy a convicted person to support a prison sentence to another institution. We predict that it's only after one half of the suspended sentence and specify further in the amendment that the warden of the prison is deploying that convicted person to a closed-type office. There is no mention in this bill of law that the person is referring to the maintenance of a prison sentence in a closed-type office, and that is why we believe it is necessary to specify this by amendment itself. We see from the very reason that the representatives of the government agree with this amendment that we have submitted, because in the explanation they also state that it is quite clear that it is a criminal and correctional institution of a closed type with special security, although it is nowhere in the bill itself. That is why we believe it is necessary to reconsider the amendment to Article 24, because it regulates exactly this situation in the best possible way and provides for the possibility of its abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25299	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Mr. Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25300	Madam President, in the bill of law, Article 26 of the 1st position states - after entering the special department, the convicted are referred to the reception department. In the reception department, the convicted may be held for a maximum period of seven days. In the reception department for that period of seven days, a person convicted of psychological, criminological and security considerations is introduced. I'd like to see what kind of experts they are who can look at all the traits of the convicted in seven days. At the beginning of the debate on this law, I said that this law is not in accordance with the Law on Criminal Penalty, because if you look at Article 63(2). ZIX, that's where it's scheduled for 30 days. It is obvious that one group has written amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, and another group at the Ministry of Justice has changed and supplemented this law and that they have not agreed. I ask you to accept this amendment, because we believe that a 30-day period is the least that it is necessary to accept in order for all of this to be carried out during that period, as provided for in Article 26. It's just that a seven-day deadline isn't enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25301	The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25302	We don't understand the logic of this article at all 55. If the law is said to be passed by an emergency procedure, it says - the law is proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure because the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the country's safety and the work of state authorities. If that's the case, then why leave a deadline for making sublegal acts of six months from the very entry into force of this law. If there really is a need for quick and urgent adoption of this law, then it is understood that the representatives of the Justice Ministry have already made advance all those sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25303	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CRIME PROCEDURE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nenad Konstantinović, Petar Jojic, together Milica Radović, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić and Miroslav Petković, Mićo Rogović, Aleksandar Martinović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojević, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, together Judita Popović and Nebojša Rangelović, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremic, Lidijan Babić, Zoran Babić, together Gordana Rajkov and Jelena Travar-Miljević, Vladan Batić, Vladjan Batić, Mila Poskurica and Gojko Radić. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, a report from the Legislative Committee, with the correction of the report and the opinion of the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25304	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam President, as far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, I should say that the SRS does not consider this kind of intervention to be necessary, 150 members of the new ones should be inserted, amended and complemented, given that the existing, or applicable Code of Criminal Procedure has been assessed by, above all, the Ministers of the Council of Europe as positive and that it is in line with all international acts and European standards. The SRS is pleased that after nine years, the current government has failed to change and write a new criminal code. It's a criminal code that was primarily made by members of the federal government in the SRJ. The code remained in force and was kept in the large part of the provisions that are in line with all international standards, and are above all in line with the provisions of continental law. As for the amendments to this Article 2 proposed, I believe it was absolutely unnecessary for this intervention, because in Article 2 of the existing and applicable law, a solution for this area in Serbia's procedural law has been quite correctly and precisely defined. Furthermore, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the First, Basic Principles, Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 15 and 16 of the provisions proposed are prescribed. So they were prescribed from that Code of Criminal Procedure, written by Serbian radicals in the federal government. I'm proud that we had good experts from college, courts, prosecutors, academy and police back then, and that we made an extremely important system law. In order to make one such system law in the countries of developed law is done from 10 to 20 years ago. Therefore, the Institute of Comparative Law has also made a major contribution to the adoption of one such system code. However, the structure, systematisation and disruption of the order of legal norms in procedural legislation are being violated here. So this is trying to execute a coup on our procedural and criminal legislation. The SRS believes it is necessary to retain solutions from the existing law and thus do no service to anyone, not to prescribe anyone's laws, such as Americanization in our criminal law and criminal procedural law. That is why I do not believe that there was a need to intervene in 150 members, and in certain areas some go a step further. That is why I believe it is necessary to adopt this amendment and not allow everyone to pass certain laws when it comes to system law. Please, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am speaking to the professional public of Serbia, the lawyer of the Republic of Serbia did not participate as one constitutional category. There are 7,500 lawyers in Serbia. They haven't been consulted. The lawyer's chamber also delivered to the Assembly and MPs of the objection why it was not consulted and the Bar of Lawyers to reach out and give their opinion on the proposed norms. After the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Criminal Procedure is the basic criterion of democracy in one country. This is seen in basic freedoms and human rights in one country, especially in the Republic of Serbia. In 2001, we codified the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are improved assumptions of innocence. A large group of rights devoid of liberty has been expanded. The most important newspaper was the reduction of certain powers the police had and the entry earlier. The prosecution has increased control over the deprived freedoms committed by internal affairs authorities. The detention time is limited. There have been a number of procedures, and I can say that experts who have done this criminal code have made a major contribution and that it cannot be intervened at any time when someone likes it or fits some political structure. You can't put politics above the right to put it here. We're against certain laws being passed like this. National MP Momir Markovic said ahead of the SRS – many laws are being passed. We have law inflation, but the question arises which is the quality of these laws, which is in application of these laws, whether they are effective or not. Mr. Markovic said - let's get rid of this law and another one that is proposed. This is really inadmissible. If we want to be a modern rule of law, then in that case we must keep an eye on what laws we are making, what laws should be passed and what fundamental rights our citizens should be protected. Because, in any case, by passing a number of laws, in which we will have criminal definitions and criminal sanctions, it is indeed inappropriate, and therefore, in one law, we need to foresee both procedurally and at the same time and criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25305	The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25306	If you can, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, tell me how much time the parliamentary group has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25307	For a parliamentary group of two minutes and 30 seconds, and for you as an authorised representative for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from 2001 until today, the matter of criminal proceedings has been changed seven times. This will be the eighth amendment to our criminal-processing legislation. According to all the criteria of profession and science, this is an extremely high number, which says that the state of Serbia unfortunately does not have a regulated system of criminal proceedings, that it is wandering around in search of the best solutions and is producing negative consequences in judicial practice, especially when it comes to human rights and freedoms. It is known that in well-organised democratic states the criminal code and the criminal code are not passed so often. They're brought once, but then they last a few decades, even longer, and then it shows the stability of the legal system. We, unfortunately, haven't had that stability since 2001 and how what DOS furniture changes this new one that comes to say -- these changes and additions to criminal-legal legislation are best possible. Their previous ones said the same thing a year or two earlier. It is now simply a question - whether someone will be responsible for the fact that at one point we have had two criminal laws, two criminal code, that it was not known what is in force, what is not valid and who will be responsible for the fact that since 2001, and especially in March 2003, when it comes to criminal proceedings, people's rights and freedoms of citizens of Serbia have been trampled massively. Of course, this government now claims that these changes and additions to the Criminal Code, or Code of Criminal Procedure, are ideal, excellent, that they will solve all problems. Unfortunately, they're not like that, and in a very short time, we're going to face the fact that we're going to have to change again something that wasn't right at first. This has been how our criminal and procedural and material legislation has been functioning since 2001. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, with one single objective if it is possible in any way to correct all those legal and logical errors contained in the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25309	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS is on the subject of the Criminal Procedure Act that many solutions to this law on amendments and additions in fact only make the situation worse and worsen the solutions of the previous law. For this reason, on behalf of the SRS, I asked that this article 7 be deleted, that is to say, to remain an old member of the 13th. The material is so badly done that we can't even manage it. The government has given me an explanation that does not apply at all to this Article 13, which speaks in fact about the rights of the defendant to defend himself or with the professional help of the defenders. Just a reminder of what this is all about - the defendant has the right to attend his hearing. Before each hearing, the defendant will be taught the right to take counsel, etc. The government in response tells me that it does not accept my amendment because of Article 13. The Code of Criminal Procedure better systemises the text of the law, since the rights charged by Article 13. The Code under the Bill of Law is now laid down in Article 4. The bill, where all the constitutional and convention rights of the defendant are contained in one place. Article 4 does not apply to that at all. So I don't know why you refused the amendment. I accept that you can refuse any amendment, but you must give too much explanation, because Article 4 refers only to the use of the official language and the letter. It would be good if you told me which bush lies the rabbit. There's no one who can even tell me, but let's keep it in writing, and maybe somebody will call sometime. What Mr. Krasic says - that rabbit is in America, probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25311	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25312	Not only does he want to, but he can't wait. In a situation where, since 2001, we have passed European laws, so as such, we change them even better, better, better, best, we have come to the situation that today DS recognises its 2003 schizophrenia. It changes what was European and epochal. Let me remind you, this article refers to something that you are under pressure 2005/2006. You had to change Vuk Draskovic too. It refers to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the right to an expeditional trial. Now you've changed the system, because that right about us almost doesn't exist anymore. And you learned that from the Hague tribunal, because there is a violation of the law of Vojislav Seselj to trial within an expeditionive period, a trial within a reasonable period. He's in custody for seven years. Tomorrow afternoon there will be some search, or judicial day where we will hear these smart judges, at the will of Zoran Djindjic, who said - take him away and do not return him again, published by Carla del Ponte, Mrs Kolundžija, not Zoran Krasic that he said, but Carla del Ponte published in her book17. In February 2003, Zoran Djindjic said - take Seselj and do not return him again. That sentence also contained your opinion of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. For seven years, there's a man in custody that you're the one who's been holding Serbia here, so that he doesn't bother you with his appearance. These are your European standards. I'd like to buy you 10 seconds to go to this Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25313	On Article 9th of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Verica Radet, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I suppose this bill is the best example of irresponsibility, first of all, the Ministry of Justice, and then the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and indeed you too, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic and the assembly majority, because this is probably the only state in the white world where such an important bill of law is discussed while the minister of justice is in Washington, or wherever he is, but in any case we're not here and we don't have anyone to communicate with, because gentlemen from the Ministry, even if they wanted to tell us something, they can't. Six or seven MPs are present from the congregation’s majority. I don't see any lawyers. We can't cross opinions and attitudes in that part either. This is difficult to calculate, it says in the reasons for the adoption of this law, that the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted in 2001, then amended in 2002, then in 2004, then in 2005, then in 2007, and then in connection with the new Constitution of the Republic, then in connection with the adoption of a new Criminal Code, and then because of some ratified international conventions and contracts, etc. All of these can be reasons, but in that case, it can't be this serious of a law that whenever anyone comes to mind, whenever anyone has someone who needs to read the text of a criminal procedure, we can go to changes of the law. Sit down once and make a human proposal. Bring him here, let the minister come, so that as lawyers and experts we can discuss him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25315	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25316	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CAP, I have proposed an amendment to Article 9(1) by adding to the proposed addition of Article 18, paragraph 1, the words "factual" and the words "provided power" with a comma. Article 9(1) is proposed to amend Article 18(1), which states that the judgment or decision corresponding to the judgment may be based only on facts in which it is fully convinced. This amendment complements this supplement by the fact that only facts having a force of proof can be considered. So, the facts that have such a quality that they have the evidence power in a concrete procedure. When the fact can have the character of evidence is processed in the theory of evidence, where there must be a particular difference between evidence and indicators, because the fact can also be an indication, based on which often judgments are based that are abolished as a rule. It is not sufficient to specify that the judgment or decision corresponding to the judgment may be based on facts only, in which it is certain that it is fully convinced. The court may fully be convinced of a fact whose existence cannot be questioned. In order for that fact to be used in a decision-making process, it must be such a quality that it has the power of proof. For these reasons, I have also proposed this amendment, believing that its adoption will improve the legal text by being clear and unequivocal. I've had the opportunity to discuss this with people of extraordinary expertise in this matter, with years of practice in direct implementation and interpretation of this code. They believe that the formulation proposed in this proposal is inadmissible, without the necessary legal precision. All legally valid and legal decisions can only be made by the court on the basis of evidence, which must not have a fraction of the doubt, because disrespect for this attitude always goes in favour of the accused person. In the event of doubt, the decision is always made in favour of the defendant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25317	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mr. Palalic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25318	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as early as the principle debate took place, we pointed first to the importance of the CAP, and the second to the intensities of the legislators to, as we say, speed up judicial proceedings, with the aim of ending the decision-making process as soon as possible. In public, of course, there is criticism that a large number of long-term cases, that there are problems in antiquity cases, that simply those who are damaged in committing crimes cannot wait for justice and it all stands. Of course, in many cases, the reasons are in the entire justice system. It was necessary to make an effort and step to try to make the whole proof procedure and resolution in the second degree and in general to solve legal medicines as short as possible. In our opinion, this law goes in the direction of restrictions on the rights of suspects and defendants. It can look nice in public, look demagogue. As soon as criminal charges are filed, he's guilty, the investigation has started, there's nothing to talk about, let's get this over with and condemn the man as soon as we can. A picture created in public about persons suspected of committing a crime is more or less so. They also play the role of informing him to be convicted, otherwise it's the end of the world. It is not disputed that when all relevant facts are established, when proof proceedings are carried out under the law, that that is the case. But the lightly promised speed in solving the case as a concept of reform, and for the sake of obtaining voter support, is not a way to reach judicial truth. Just in a series of solutions to these changes, the CAP is reaching out to these things. When it comes to extending the grounds for detention, when it comes to the search of the apartment, even in this case when it comes to the abolition of certain emergency legal medicines. It can fit into the concept, here's why they'd put in an emergency legal remedy to relieve the sentence, to review the verdict. No more options, no need to delay the procedure, let's end it. The need for justice is most important in the judiciary, to condemn the perpetrator, to establish facts and judicial truth and to keep the injured satisfied. But if this is carried out in a way that perhaps not all the facts have been established, that perhaps the judges have not properly applied the material right to perhaps precisely established material facts, because there was no possibility that those who have more experience, knowledge, such as judges of higher courts, could possibly question the judgments brought in lower courts, that justice could be an injustice for someone else. It's a big mistake that it was an emergency legal remedy and we don't think it's gonna slow down the whole court case. The trial slows the problem down procedurally, which means providing all the participants with a search procedure where the actual situation is determined. There are ways to find ways for participants in the process, witnesses, warlocks, defendants to be brought in or fined in the event of a avoidance of the presence of a search, to arrange a delivery that causes major problems in procedures, but not to abolish legal medicines that serve to make quality judgments. In that sense, this amendment has been tabled and I believe that this whole concept should be reconsidered. The people have more sayings, but the faster it is, the faster they can certainly produce injustice on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25319	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25320	Dear citizens of Serbia, this is the best picture that irresponsible government has a relationship to a very important law. We discuss in particular the CAP, and many of those who are able to monitor this transmission know what regulates and what needs to be done. We're going to have a situation that Mr. Homen, as Secretary of State, is going to be going out on some TV and radio shows very soon and talking about this law. From the point of view of democratic principles, it seems to me from the point of view of the US principle, if the minister of justice is present today, it seems to me to be a higher major, a higher power, and therefore there have been a lot of serious reasons not to hold a debate on this issue today. I don't mean to offend pigeon lovers, but we're not passing the pigeons' association law, we're calling it the CAP. The SRS considers that Article 15 needs to be intervened, and it refers to Article 71. The CAP, where exactly and decadently numbered in which cases the defence attorney is appointed under official duty, unless that person is merely designated by the defence attorney in the proceedings. There are exactly a number of ways. We don't have an intervention here. The proposal in Article 15 is when, in which cases and in which way the defender will be appointed under official duty, and we have practically a very serious objection here. The lawyer's chamber has been told that it will deliver to the internal affairs authorities and to the court a list of lawyers in the alphabetical order to be hired as defenders under official duty. We have suggested that a report be submitted occasionally by the courts and by the authorities of the internal affairs, or police station or police administration, as well as how they hire defenders. Because you're saying that the court, or the president of the court, is bound to hire a defense attorney in alphabetical order, and there's no sanction on what he doesn't do. We in the SRS are responsible, because we know from practice that there is corruption and that there are privileged lawyers, who are always engaged under official duty and those who will never be hired. We don't claim that this is a common practice, that it is in all cases. A large number of judges and presidents perform their judicial functions in a very correct manner, worthy of what they do. But there are different cases. I think Mrs. Radeta has made enough arguments. Now I've included this as a higher power to stop discussing this than when we have an adequate representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25321	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25322	On the basis of the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, I have proposed an amendment to Article 15(2) amending Article 71(5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendment reads: Instead of the word 'in alphabetical order', the words 'in order of entry into the register' will stand. In the draft law, Article 15(2) amends Article 71 paragraph 5 of the basic law, so that it reads: ''A lawyer will be appointed for the defender, in accordance with the list provided to the president of the first-degree court by the appropriate bar. A lawyer's office delivers a list of lawyers in alphabetical order. When setting up defenders under official duty, the court is obliged to respect the order of the list. ''If the attorney's chamber were to submit a list of lawyers in alphabetical order, in which order would be appointed by the president of the first-degree court by the official office of attorney, it would be necessary for each new entry of lawyers to create a new list and deliver to the courts, instead of supplementing the already existing one. By supplementing the already existing list of lawyers, which is sent by a newly registered lawyer in the order of registration, the court will monitor and keep an eye on the order of defense attorneys under official duty. In addition to the above, the entry of a new lawyer and the insertion of the same in alphabetical order leads to the situation that the newly entered lawyer, due to the alphabet order, comes immediately or very quickly in line for the official defence, which is certainly not correct in relation to the lawyers on the already existing list that would come in line for the official defence after several years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25323	The 17th amendment was also submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25324	On the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to Article 17, which is complemented by being "advanted" in the proposed addition of Article 74(2), following the word "recognition" and adding the words stuck at the end "with insight into the criminal and technical elaborate with the sketch". The draft law, Article 17, proposes the addition of Article 74(2) by placing the word "criminal application" stuck after the wording and adding the words "recognition, finding and opinion of the expert". The proposed amendment complements the proposed addition of Article 74(2) by eradicating the word "recognition" and adding the words with an end-to-end "with insight into the criminal and technical elaborate with a sketch". Thus, in Article 17, the proposed addition of Article 74(2) will read that after the word "criminal application" it is stuck and the words "and the record of insight into the criminal and technical elaborate with the sketch, find and opinion of the expert". That proposal complements Article 74(2) extends the right of the defenders to read the report on the findings and findings and the opinion of the experts immediately before each first hearing of the suspect. However, by giving the defender the right to read the review report immediately before the first hearing of the suspect, it must also be given the right to make an insight into the criminal and technical elaborate and sketch, which complements the awareness record and allow for a more quality and professional examination of the facts contained in the review report, which is particularly important in traffic delicacies. I think it is necessary to accept this amendment, which is more technical, because the record of insight is incomplete without the criminal and technical embodies and sketches.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25325	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25326	I asked to delete Article 20. You state that in Article 79 paragraph 3 the second sentence is changed and said – the person carrying out the search and present witnesses can only be persons of the same sex as the person being searched. It was before – a woman's face can only be searched by a woman's face, and only women's faces will be taken for witnesses. The question is, what is the fundamental difference between these two things? So it was originally that a female face could be searched by a female face, and the witnesses were also female faces in the search. It is now said that they are the same sex – in the end, so it comes down to it, it is the same. Furthermore, you add a new position 9 in this article, which says – that the search course can be recorded in tone and visual terms, and the items found during the search can be specially photographed. The footage will be attached to the search log. The SRS is categorically against the entry of Article 20. A bill of law for a number of reasons. First, audio and visual footage during search and arrests can be the subject of various manipulations, the subject of a media hack, etc. All we can think of is media haranga and hijke on the celebrated football player Dragan Djajic. Records of arrests are used, are published in all media outlets, and no judicial verdict has been passed afterwards, nor has it been prosecuted at all for those acts that have been highlighted during the arrest and during the shooting. So this is what we think shouldn't be in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25327	Parliamentarians Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. The 21st Amendment was filed by a People's MP, Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21 and requested that it be deleted. As with the other members, the general view of the SRS is that the proposed solutions in this Code on Criminal Procedure are far more inconclusive, incomplete and will not cause a legal effect that is normally relevant in the innovation of all legal projects conditions of the legal system. That is why it is proposed to delete this member. However, the argument given by the Government is problematic, and here I will read it for the public. The government’s explanation states: “The government does not accept the amendment, as Article 21. The draft law shall be governed by the provisions of Article 81. The Code of Criminal Procedure’. Who challenged that? Who challenged Article 81's provision? Nobody. So, the argument given here is just to give an explanation, and in other reasons, the government went with such formulas – there, just to give any reason to meet the needs of the government as well. That's what this government's insecure is talking about. It is time for her to resign, and the bill itself, and the innovation of a very important legal project has been so done that it is essentially illogical, incompletely presented everything that this legal project needs to show up and show.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25329	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25330	On the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I have proposed an amendment to Article 21(1) amending Article 81(1) that the words "hazard" instead of the words "people and property" refer to the words "life and health of people or property of greater value". Article 81(1) The Code of Criminal Procedure was behind the words "hazard" to "life and health of people and property of greater value", and there is no reason why the word "people and property" was changed in this section. This new formulation is much more general, and therefore more inaccurate, which is why it is subject to abuse. When you say "hazard for people and property", you can't see the degree of threat that matters here. The danger to humans can also be a degree of threat, which is not about a greater degree of danger and a case in which no such degree of threat can occur, so that it can be concluded that there is a risk to life at all. In addition to the threat of life, human health can be endangered, life-threatening, but it can leave lasting or lasting consequences. The "hazard for property" is inaccurate and can be interpreted in various ways if it does not specify the degree and value of the threat to the good. It is incomparably more precise and clearer old legal text that speaks of the danger to property of greater value. These are all reasons for submitting amendments whose acceptance would improve the legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25331	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the proposed provision of Article 28, this is where a master's scandal is introduced in procedural law. Who's the master scandal? A false witness. Provisions have been taken over from the Hague tribunal's Statute. How are you going to verify one witness statement, how the defendant or suspect will be able to face a witness who is testifying under special protection now? Will he have a chance to face it, to interrogate witnesses of defense and witnesses of the charge? No, the constitutional right of the accused of being able to investigate witnesses of the indictment during the main investigation, as well as witnesses of the defence, has been denied. So this is a free one of the credentials of the SRS, and precisely and precisely, that this is about taking over someone else's, untested in our caselaw, certain norms that will cause inconceivable consequences. How this Serbian judiciary and its case law could have worked for hundreds of years, and now we remember -- let's take over from the Americans to give protection measures to certain categories of witnesses. This applies to both the protected witness and the undercover investigator. A secret investigator will also be your master scandal. If he works as hard as he can, he'll be lying as much as he wants. It will be rewarded by millions, only to collect false evidence so that possibly political opponents can be better accused and tried accordingly. That false witness, please, has no place in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It's a scandal you're doing. Dale, first of all, consult a lawyership, the judiciary, the judicial authorities, to tell you what the court bang in Serbia has shown? What's new, what are traditions, what are cultural values? What matches in the Serbian judiciary and justice system with the American.? Nothing. America is the wild west, criminals the biggest in the world, the biggest gang in the world, and we now need to use and take over their legislation and their standards. Not Serbia's wild west, Serbia's not Texas, Serbia has its own cultural, traditional, above all, the circumstances, it has its customs, it has its culture, it has tradition, it has its own liquids and its values acquired that must be respected on our collapse. When we reach the level and standard of America, then we can make fun of ourselves, experience ourselves, introduce special courts, special prosecutors and special police. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there are no special courts in any country, except in Serbia. In the West, even in America, there are special prosecutors and special police, and we have special judges. Now these special judges need to be rewarded twice, to take on double wages, but to act as the political regime in power, so that it can deal with political opponents. How could the Belgrade court have tried, Nata Mesarevic, to judge under normal conditions, not as a special judge, for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic? Now if a crime is committed by someone else, but not with such markings, then in that case we have to have special judges. Why? Why do we need special judges? We don't need it. Mr. Homen, I think you should consider stopping and pulling the brake when it comes to certain rights and freedoms of our citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25333	You've spent your time with your MPs. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 30 of this proposal introduces a new Article 132 which defines the conditions under which sound and video footage of actions carried out in accordance with this Code can be used as evidence and can be based on the decision of the Court. Each law serves to arrange the area to which it applies, but also because of criminal provisions, it also serves to prevent the execution of a crime and does not occur. This amendment stipulates that at the end of Article 6 a point is deleted and a point is added 'and a public notice about sound, or video recording of objects and public surfaces is made public. ''The position of Article 132. refers to the case that sound and video recordings were created as a form of general security measures, which are understood on public surfaces, i.e. in public buildings and premises. If this amendment were to be adopted, on all those public areas and in the office rooms where the recording takes place, a notice would be highlighted that would play a preventive role in the execution of the criminal offence and would not occur. In practice, I mean, in a lot of cases, it does exist. The bank, the school, the kindergarten, the store, a gas station that has video surveillance, has an important announcement that the facility is under video surveillance. Why? For the purpose of preventing, or preventing, from committing a crime. I think this amendment is practical and I invite you to take it in the voting day and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25335	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25336	I reported after the last amendment. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we believe that there are not enough arguments to put the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure out of force. We believe that it was much more justified to find an opportunity to apply the Law within a delayed period, as provided for by the law, it seems to me, since December 2008. So it would have been much better if we had all worked together to find conditions for its application, primarily an adequate preparation of prosecutors to conduct investigations and to improve certain provisions of the 2006 Code, for which, in the end of the term of office, the legislator himself saw immediately after the adoption that they were not best regulated, so it was also these amendments and additions during his term of office that he had prepared. If it is true that the representatives of the Justice Ministry are so critical of the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, then I simply do not understand why a large number of provisions of the Code were found in these amendments and additions to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. Unfortunately, this was done very badly, unsystematically and in a series of provisions departing from the basic objective of the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure and it is changing in the opposite direction, more specifically, being broken down. I'm just going to say what provisions are involved, and I've called on my colleague's amendment for the very reason that what I'm talking about right now is amongst these provisions. Namely, it has been taken over without major changes, more specifically prescribed by the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, the possibility of using photo, sound and video as evidence, then a plea agreement, then rules on the wider action of the ban on leaving residence on so-called home detention, as well as measures with guarantee, or the possibility of connecting by email. They were also taken over from the 2006 Code of Procedures with certain amendments. It is the rules on the protection of witnesses in criminal proceedings, as well as the rules relating to special investigative techniques used in regulating the criminal offences of organised crime. What is, in fact, the worst taken over from the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, with huge changes and where the greatest deviation from the very quality of the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure is actually made, in fact, the biggest regrets that we have on this bill. It is specifically a provision that the second-degree court, following the first suspension of the first-degree court's verdict, is obliged to settle the case itself. We think the provision contained in the 2006 Law is much better. He also envisioned the possibility of a second-degree court ruling in the event that a first-degree verdict was abolished once, but if the possibility of rescinding was achieved. We believe that this provision is not good because the future appeals courts are likely to be and how burdened, because by such a provision you do not, in fact, interfere with first-degree courts to deepen into the very essence of complex criminal cases which there are very many. So, in fact, they're going to choose the situation and the possibility of abolishing their judgment, but that way they get a lot, they're actually getting rid of a very difficult object. On the other hand, here is a very noticeable and absence of the educational function that second-degree courts should have in relation to the lower courts themselves, and I am speaking from the aspect of encouraging the quality of the work of first-degree courts. Of course, a very important objection to the current text of amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure is the abolition of two extraordinary legal remedies, a request for the emergency mitigation of penalties and, of course, a request for the examination of the legality of a judicial verdict and the third huge complaint we have is that, when it comes to appeal to the judgment of the second-degree court, we do not think it is justified to reduce so many reasons for its statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25337	The MPs Gordan Rajkov and Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted together to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I must tell you that I have read in detail and compared this proposed member of the House of Representatives, which is related to Article 142 of the current Code of Criminal Procedure. We can determine that it is literally copied, i.e. that the provisions on the detention of a person are prescribed in Article 142. So, nothing new. However, in other provisions proposed to amend and supplement the existing Criminal Procedure Act, as I said, they were taken over from the applicable Code, and one part of the Code on Criminal Procedure, which was brought into force in 2006, and was never implemented, nor entered into force. The whole venture was carried out by the personal and unverified impression of individuals who participated in the work and on the preparation of the bill. The result of this work is a large number of obvious errors, a lack of all kinds, from dilemmas regarding the meaning of certain provisions, legal gaps, confusions created by mechanically adding new texts to existing and numerous definitions and provisions, to harsh language and spelling gaps which, if this bill is adopted, i.e. The Code of Criminal Procedure that you propose to be one of the most illiterate legal texts in the history of domestic law. That's how many theorists even point out. As this law will be applied, the second question is. A significant number of newspapers being proposed has been taken over, I repeat again, from Anglo-American law. Organisation of the previous procedure, agreement on the recognition of guilt, procedure for intermediation in order to achieve a settlement between the accused and the damaged and the other. This transplant of Anglo-American procedural law and its forms into domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25339	You're out of time. You spoke 15 seconds longer, but you really don't have any more time. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Now it's exactly 4:30 p.m. I don't think we're in direct transmission anymore. We have a break by 5:30. [[After break – 17.30.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the word is Alexander Martinovic. Pardon me, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25341	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the tribunalalisation of the Serbian judiciary is also seen in frequent amendments to the rules of criminal proceedings. Since March 1994, when the UN tribunal adopted a regulation on procedures and evidence, this act has been amended more than 50 times. What is characteristic, whenever the prosecutor, or the UN tribunal's prosecutor's office, as you government attorneys would say, finds it in trouble to prove guilty to the person charged, then it resorts to changing the rules of procedure and in the course of the proceedings. It's one thing that really doesn't exist anywhere in any democratic, civilised and legal state in the world, but that's what's in The Hague. Unfortunately, there is also a situation in the Republic of Serbia, as the UN tribunal's prosecutor's rates now go to the state secretary in the Republic of Serbia, and they also resort to frequent amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now we're getting one newspaper into criminal proceedings, and that's trade. I really don't think it's appropriate that Mr. Milosavljevic is not present today. I think he'd understand me quite well, because what's different than when the DA and the defendant agree on criminal prosecution, a crime for which a prison sentence has been threatened for up to 10 years. It's nothing but a specific process store. Now, the process trade institute will unfortunately exist in the criminal-processing legislation of the Republic of Serbia. To make things worse, when...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25342	On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee adopted this amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25343	I'm sorry for this little impeccableness. We have submitted an amendment to Article 37. The bill, i.e. Article 152, which requires precision in the sense that the word "ordinary" should be entered. Namely, this member deals with determining the detention of accused persons and he speaks of the presence of a public prosecutor, or defender, at the first hearing of the defendant, or hearing in the time of the incarceration of the defendant. As provided for in Article 152, if such a solution remains, without our intervention, we believe that it would cause a series of problems in practice. What is most important is that they would question the right to the justice of the defendant himself and the fat one would fall into the law at all, as provided for in Article 4 of this proposal. As a result, we believe that the best thing to do is to supplement the third-member's position in this way that he would vote - the hearing can also be held in the absence of properly informed persons. This way if the rest were not defined precisely and we think it opens up opportunities for many abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25344	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 38, I have suggested that the entire position 1 be deleted. The existing solution in the law is that it is adequate and should not be changed. This member who's completely talking about being replaced by words for 24 hours for 12 hours is unsustainable. There is no reason for this deadline to be reduced from 24 hours to 12 hours, so it will bring a lot of things into place as a problem if such an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure is accepted, because simply parties cannot adequately and adequately react in this short period of time. It was totally unacceptable, as I was saying in the afternoon part of the debate, to one procedure for prosecutors to conduct an investigation, where the identity of the practical parties is completely lost and the reduction of this deadline would lead to additional problems in this acoustic process that will be applied since 2011. On the other hand, I suggested that Article 38 point 1 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25346	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go. You don't want to? Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25347	The SRS requires that a member of the 43rd Law be deleted for reasons why we do not understand why the executive authority is involved in all of this, or in the supervision of detainees. So far, the president of a court or a judge appointed by him has been obliged to visit detainees at least once a week. If he finds it necessary, and without the presence of the overseers and guards, he shall inform the court’s president accordingly. And now they say it should be notified, of all the irregularities observed during the visit of the prison, without delaying the ministry responsible for the judiciary, which is required to inform the President of the court within 15 days of the date of receipt, or the judge of the measures taken to remove them. It is unacceptable for the executive authority to interfere with something like this, especially that this is one detour and lasts longer. If any irregularities exist, they will rather be removed if the President of the Court reacts immediately, rather than if the ministry is notified thereof, and the ministry after informs the President of the Court of Justice of what it has done or has not done. Someone here obviously told you that you should take care of certain privileged detainees, that only the Government, or the one who has an interest in this, can take care of them, thus curbing the independence of the judiciary, of a branch of government, and therefore the SRS considers that the existing solution is much better than this. It's not your first time trying to mix your grandmothers and frogs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25348	It's been two minutes. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25349	On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46(2) that after the word "change of address" the point is deleted and they add the words "and if a notification has been left, and it has returned in writing with the indication that the recipient did not seek it". The explanation of this amendment is, when it comes to exact addresses or addresses in the proposed paragraph 2, in a large number of cases, that the supplier who does not find the recipient leaves a notification at which time he will try to re-deliver or that the consignment may be raised at a specified time in the competent post office. In this other case, the recipient does not respond, that is, not to receive the shipment, but to return the same to indicate that he did not ask. I don't see the reason, Mr. Homen, that this amendment that I have proposed, because the problem in practice is making a lot of problems for the court, that you didn't accept. The amendment is comprehensive, in fact it helps the court to conduct the procedure, because we know that often avoiding the address is a big problem, and this is one solution that would be extremely appropriate. This is a solution that would be useful in court proceedings. I would take advantage of the opportunity, since there was a particular misunderstanding, to return to Article 42, paragraph 6, after the word "contained person" puts an end and the rest of the sentence is deleted. The explanation of this amendment is that the proposed solution is unacceptable because certain actions are deleted that slow down the communication of persons deprived of liberty with the court, and make it difficult for the court to work. In practice, there are a large number of such letters, most often written by the hands of the deprived of liberty, where he always retains one copy to himself, and the other to the court, and therefore, either fishing, is an exaggeration of caution related to such shipments. After all, long-term practice did not point to problems related to the content of such an envelope. I cannot agree that in this situation, because in practice I have often been in these various correspondences that go to the court, which go to the defender, because we will be in a situation that will practically be a large number of senders that have to be stamped and opened, and in someone's presence. I don't see any reason why this kind of communication is now proposed in this complex way, because it's practically written where detained persons are most often used to ask for something from either the president of the court or the investigating judge, or to complain about something, or to make it difficult for them to communicate with the defender. I don't see any reason to go to such extremes, to look for something that's for this kind of work, for this kind of communication, please seal the shipments that go out of custody to the court, or to the defender, it's a completely extra action that's certainly going to be quite difficult for the court in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25350	The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is scandalous in the bill of this law, is the possibility of communicating the prosecutor with the defendant. The defendant will be obliged, i.e. he will have the right to confess his guilt, and the prosecutor will then guarantee that there will be a mitigation of the sentence imposed. It's a crime that's been threatened by a penalty for up to ten years. Therefore, given the threat of punishment, there is no harmless crime and this possibility of agreeing in criminal proceedings is indeed one scandalous newspaper, which will fully discredit the principle of justice and justice in criminal proceedings. Otherwise, let me remind you, among other things, in The Hague tribunal, Biljana Plavsic has in due course concluded some sort of agreement or deal with the UN tribunal's prosecution. She first accused Republika Srpska's army of genocide in Srebrenica. The prosecution promised Biljana Plasic that after that recognition she would be released, however, this did not happen, and here is Biljana Plavsic, today, who is serving time in prison in Sweden with junkies and mentally disturbed persons. Now the question is, what happens if the same things happen in the Republic of Serbia, the defendant says, well, here, I'll admit that I committed a crime, and I'll give you some information about a few other perpetrators, I'll co-operate fully with the prosecution. The prosecutor promises - yes, well, there will be a mitigation of the prison sentence, and then the court says - I don't care what you've agreed on, that and that defendant will be punished by law. That's what happened to Biljana Plavsic. There's nothing she didn't say at the expense of Radovan Karadzic, Momcila Krajisnik, Ratko Mladic, when the time came...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25352	Mr. Martinovic, you have two minutes and 15 seconds left as an authorised representative. You can use that if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25353	So when the time came for The Hague tribunal to conduct the agreement between Biljana Plavsic and the Prosecutor's Office, it did not happen, she was given an adequate prison sentence and is now on the hold of a prison in Sweden, and given her years of life, practically this prison sentence, which is time-consuming, will mean a death sentence to her. This is the achievement now proposed by the Serbian government to enter into our judicial system. And the government says, you know, it exists in some countries in the world. It exists in some federal units in the United States, there are countries where it is possible to get three life sentences in prison, where there are laws in which it is possible to prosecute a dog, cat or cow, but such practice and such tradition has nothing to do with the legal tradition and practice in the Republic of Serbia. You keep going on with that policy -- well, there's somewhere in the world that wouldn't exist with us. What good is it that you don't bring into our legal system? You always find what's wrong and then it's bad when we get into our system here, it turns out to be worse than where that institution is and it's created. That's how it's gonna be with this deal between the prosecutor and the defendant, and you turn the criminal proceedings into a market, turn them into flea market, where the prosecutor and the defendant will agree on the level of punishment and on who committed the crime. And the worst thing in all is when someone admits to committing a crime for which a prison sentence has been threatened for up to ten years, the prosecution commits itself not to prosecute for any other crime, and now someone can admit that he has committed a crime for which the sentence has been threatened for up to 10 years, and besides, he has committed five more crimes for which he can get 40 years in prison. Where's the justice? Where's the justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25354	Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25355	Article 57 refers, in fact, to Article 229. The Code of Criminal Procedure and should certainly be deleted and I am convinced that Minister Malovic is here today to convince her to accept this amendment, but she is in Washington and she doesn't care what we are doing here today. She probably went there to get her opinion, but good. Perhaps these ten MPs will vote in favour of this amendment, and maybe some of this. What does Article 227 apply to? On the list of lawyers used on the basis of the CAP. We said that this article 57 is deleted because the amendment to Article 15 contains what is provided for in Article 57, but the Government informs us that it should be pointed out that Article 57. The bill refers to an official defender, appointed by the internal affairs authorities, while the provisions of Article 15 of the law apply to the defender under the official duty laid down by the court. It should certainly be emphasized here that the fact that follows all criminal proceedings and when it comes to lawyers under official duty is that there is one narrow circle of lawyers who deal exclusively with this business, which are in fact on the state's guarantee, since lawyers are paid by official duty from the RS budget and exist with certain judges and certain lawyers, even the presidents of courts, a drug that are lawyers who can act on official duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25356	The 59th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25357	Too bad there's no Mr. Batic. He has repeatedly said here that he has filed criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic and that there is no answer from the prosecutor, and then the question arises whether, as potentially damaged, he can move on? It is a similar situation, for example, with workers working in Galenica, who would file criminal charges against directors and accomplices who destroy Galenika, starting with banks, Goran Perčević, etc. We have a situation to keep public prosecutor quiet and nothing at the end. A few days ago, I heard from a man who transferred something through the prosecution ten years ago, filed criminal charges, walked to all possible prosecutors, but there was no clear answer whether the criminal charges were rejected or rejected, so that the suspect's sister-in-law, meanwhile, had both legacy and ruined everything, even though she may have been a suspect or potentially guilty of killing her husband. Now they've come to the sense that in rejecting criminal charges, it should be written as a reason that the reported crime is not a criminal offence. What if a subsidiary prosecutor proves the crime in the course of a criminal trial? Then what happens to the prosecutor who rejected something like that or turned it down? Just to remind you, how someone can criminally prosecute someone who is in power, how Batic can prosecute Dinkic, how employees from Galenika can prosecute some from Galenika, how we from the SRS to implement the indictment proposal and request to conduct an investigation against the one who committed two crimes, and that is all in the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, when the defendant is Javier Solana, Olli Rehn, Boris Tadic, Ivica Dacic and Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25358	National MP Gojko Radic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Here you go, Miss Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25359	On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, to Article 60, which amends Article 235(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure, I have proposed an amendment to Article 60, which amends Article 235(1), adds a new position 2 which reads: 'If a public prosecutor finds that it is not a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty and that it may be a criminal offence being prosecuted by a private suit, he will resign, with contributions, a competent court, which will be treated as a private suit, which will be notified by the applicant of criminal charges, who have the possibility of taking over the prosecution for which he has filed criminal charges or to take over the prosecution of a private suit. ''St. 2. becomes item 3, item 3. becomes 4, item 4. becomes item 5, item 5. becomes item 6. Article 235(1) The CAP is talking about the rejection of criminal charges by a public prosecutor if the application itself states that the reported act is not a criminal offence prosecuted by official duty, if the act has become obsolete or is covered by amnesty or pardon, or if there are other circumstances that exclude prosecution or there is no reasonable doubt that the suspect has committed a criminal offence. Discarding criminal charges and the reasons for this will be notified by the public prosecutor of the damage within eight days, Article 61, which can take the prosecution itself within eight days. In the event that, according to the public prosecutor's assessment, it is obvious that the criminal offence being prosecuted in a private lawsuit is purely rational and correct, it is appropriate to give such application to the competent court, which will be treated as a private suit, which is also the purpose of this amendment. It is a matter of rationality in handling and maintaining the deadline for filing a private suit. The explanation you wrote for not accepting the amendments is such as to give the impression that you did not have time to study it in detail, and the great handicap is the absence of the minister of justice, who could professionally assess the justification of this amendment at the very session of this assembly and possibly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25360	The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25361	I asked you to be a member of 68. The bill is deleted. In Article 261 of the words – if this is required by the interests of criminal proceedings, the interests of keeping secrets, public order interests, reasons for morals or the protection of the personal or family life of the injured or the accused, you ask to be replaced by words – if this is required by the interests of morals, public order, national security, the interests of the protection of minors or the private life of the participant in the process or, where necessary, given the specific circumstances why the public might harm the interests of justice. As in Article 20, which I have explained earlier, and in this article 68, the question arises – why are you asking and why are you changing the provisions of Article 68. Is there any reason to change something that is quite adequately resolved and prescribed in the applicable law? No, it's certainly not, but you're continuing with the old practice you've been doing since the beginning as this government is formed. At the time of last year, when we passed, that is, when you passed a set of laws in the field of justice, the SRS warned you clearly and argued where this would lead you, where you would be brought by the political re-election of judges and discontinuity in performing the judicial function. Here's what you've been led to. 600 judges are out of a job. Now how can we convince you not to change Article 68 when we couldn't convince you of many other things that were just as important as these?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25362	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted the amendment to Article 74. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee adopted this amendment and became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 81st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25363	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the bad newspapers in this bill, are also the right of the court to oblige parties and other participants in the process of delivering their submissions to the court in electronic form. First, I think that this puts citizens' rights at risk, because not all citizens in the Republic of Serbia are able to communicate with the court in this way, and on the other hand, not all courts are able to communicate with the parties in this way, not because the judge does not know the work on the computer, but from a simple fact that in some of our courts, in fact, in most of our courts judgments are still being done on typewriters today. You are now proposing something that is in the informational, technological sense, unreal to be achieved when it comes to citizens, and also when it comes to courts themselves. Then the question is, why are you doing this? You only do this for one reason to speed up criminal proceedings in a completely unnatural way. You obligate a party who can't work on a computer, who can't communicate electronically with the court, in this form delivers a certain submission, a man doesn't do it and, of course, he runs out of time and loses his right. Then the criminal proceedings end, however, quickly, but in such a criminal procedure absolutely no material truth exists. It's that newspaper, one of the bad newspapers that's being proposed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25364	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to article 81. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25365	Chairman, would you please tell me how much NS has time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25366	As an authorised representative, you have 14 and a half minutes, and your parliamentary group has nine minutes left. Here you go. We're working until the end of this point that we're at today, we've extended the time until the end of this agenda point, the one that's at 6:00, only if you're not suggesting otherwise, so let's say otherwise. By the end of this point today we're working, and tomorrow at ten we're going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25367	Madam President, I hope you won't include this time. (President: No, we're back to square one. ) On behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 81(4). Therefore, the proposal set out in the law is the following - exclusively from the position of the 3rd member, the President of the Council may, after taking statements from the parties, require the council referred to in Article 24(6) of this Act to decide that certain evidence is not being re-produced. The proposal in the amendment to the NS is that Article 81(4) is amended and read – it is especially possible from Article 3 of this Article that, after taking statements from the parties, it may decide not to re-apply certain evidence. Explanation of this amendment – acting larger, i.e. the majority in the meeting shall decide which evidence is not re-implemented to the economics of the proceedings, and having regard to the fact that it is not specified at which stage of the procedure would be larger in Article 24(6) which does not decide on the main matter, the evidence shall be decided. In any event, it would take more time to obtain a decision than the one referred to in Article 24(6), which would involve a termination of the procedure than to decide more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25368	The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25369	I've made an amendment to Article 83. If such a proposal were accepted as it is in law, it would imply a completely different course of action. So, my proposal is that what is foreseen by the bill, and it is envisaged that when the defendant finishes his testimony, questions can first be asked by the prosecutor, then by the defendant, after him by the president of the council and the members of the council, then the damaged or his legal representative and the attorney, the defendant, and his defender and the experts. The amendment, which I submitted to Article 83(4), changes and reads – when the defendant completes his statement, questions can first be asked by the president of the council and the members of the council, after which the prosecutor, then the injured and his legal representative and the attorney, the defendant and the experts, and then the defendant of the defendant. The reason for this amendment is – the court still plays an active role, hears, takes the defense and is obliged to consider or determine the situation in a comprehensive manner, to contribute to the clarification of all circumstances, both those in the indictment and the circumstances that go in favour of the defendants. I think, Mr. Homen, you have reason to accept this amendment. Snezana Malovic, minister, always accepts such essential proposals and which practically mean full stability when it comes to the process, and I think you will respond by accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25370	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 88 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25371	So, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88 to Article 1, the words "experts directly set up" are amended and read "artist can be directly set up". So here the change is practically in one or two letters. Again, "the artist is directly set up" are changed and read "the artist can be directly set up". It seems, practically, as the people would say, that there's no big difference, but there's essentially a big difference. The explanation for this amendment is that the amendment, where questions can be asked directly, is a better solution than offered in amendments and amendments to the law. It is more cellular to ask questions after the president's approval of the council, and to protect the personal integrity of both the witness and the expert. In connection with the front, hypothetical questions would be avoided by experts and witnesses during the search.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25372	National MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment together. Mr. Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25373	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the members who amends the text of the law, and who are, indeed, part of this concept that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made when it comes to reforming procedural and criminal legislation. We have assessed that this reform aims to speed up the proceedings, to remove, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, extra parts within the criminal procedure, so that other parts of the criminal proceedings are reportedly released and lead to the determination of the facts of the situation and the judicial verdict. In this move, at the cost of the government, the excess parts, in addition to the part relating to certain extraordinary legal remedies, are now being infiltrated by a regular legal remedy -- in a complaint, and a complaint against the decision of the second-degree court. In that part, the reasons for the appeal are narrowed down. It is an interesting argument of the Government which reads - the appeal against the judgment of the second-degree court should only be an exception, be careful now, we are of the opinion that the only valid reason for the appeal against the judgment of the second-degree court is the one contained in the text of the bill. I would like to remind you that the reasons are all suspended for the statement of appeal - if the second-degree court has imposed a prison sentence of 40 years or if it has confirmed the verdict of the first-degree court to which such sentence has been imposed; if the second-degree court has determined, on the basis of the investigation, that the Court of First Instance has established otherwise than the Court of First Instance, and in such a case, has based its verdict and if the second-degree court has altered the ruling of the Court of First Instance, the defendant of the Court of First Instance, by which the Court of First Instance has been dismissed. That is the part that is more or less contained in that section that is defined as the only reason for the complaint. These reasons here are government policy. It is the government's policy -- to shed tears of the right to appeal, such as abolished individual emergency legal medicines, such as extended grounds for detention. We believe that this approach, regardless of the factors that have committed serious crimes, makes it impossible to establish material or, as they say, judicial truth. We believe that this section should be deleted in the proposed amendments to the law, that is, why should the judgment of the second-degree court not be searched through a declaration of appeal for all these reasons? It's just that it can't delay the procedure. It can only contribute to this quality completion of the entire criminal procedure and to the surety of the truth. I don't see a single valid reason for the grounds for the appeal to be narrowed down and abolished. I suggest that the government accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-23-0.u25374	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 107th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Mr. Homen, Mr. Cosic, honourable MPs, I thank you for your participation in the work today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., when we move to the 8th item of the agenda -- draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records, 94 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs, please place the cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 registered MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions to start work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Nikola Krpić, Željko Tomic, Elvira Kovac and Vitomir Mihajlovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have invited the members of the meeting to attend Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, and Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, as well as Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosić, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and in connection with the next points of the agenda, Dr Žarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Minister of Education and International Education Cooperation, Dr Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary, Dr Tinde Kovaca-Cerović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Vesna Fila, Assistant Minister for Education and International Education Cooperation, Mr Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister of the Minister for Inspect and Supervisory Affairs, Miroslav Radikić,. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments of the National MPs Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Nenad Konstantinović, Zoran Antić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Vladan Batić, Milica Radović, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Jordanka Tabaković, Judita Popović, Nebojša Rangelović, Srđan Spasojević, Petar Jojić, Boris Alkić, Vlatko Ratović, Dejan Mirović, Laslo Varga, Balitka Tabaković, Elvira Kovač, Arpad Fremond, Verojub Arsić, Srđan Spasojić, Sretovar Jojić, Mirić, Mirkožić and the Republic of Slovenia. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, as well as from the Government. Before we move to a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, who was proposed to add a new member of 55, and Srdjan Mikovic to Article 107. I also remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as incomplete, rejected the amendments of the People's MPs: Lassla Varge, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, who are proposing to add a new member of 27a, Saša Maksimovic to Article 28, protector of citizens to Article 60, Zlata Đerić, who is proposing to add a new member of 98a, and Elvira Kovac, who is proposing to add a new member of 98a, and in accordance with Article 148(3). The rules of procedure of the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word.
