ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33526	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine precisely the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the MPs' units I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Milica Radovic, Momo Colakovic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Željko Tomic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE FOR 2010. Year, with draft laws on granting consent to the financial plans for 2010. YEAR: (a) the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) the National Employment Services. Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Whether the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family want a word, Mr Paja Momcilov, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Dusanka Plecevic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Plecevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33527	Ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on Health and Family, I have issued an opinion on the 2010 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, because it is restrictive, and the deficit of over 82 billion dinars is planned, which means new borrowing and deepening of the crisis. In your explanation, you are complaining of unfavourable economic trends, global economic crisis, drastically reduced external trade, company indifference, etc., everything we warned you about two years ago. In light of the law, you claim that the uncertain beginning of Serbia's economic recovery as well as its duration is uncertain. Of course I don't support this argument. The call for an economic crisis is in full contradiction with key politicians' claims from the government that we will profit in the crisis, as said expert Bozidar Delic of the Democratic Party, that we are slowly getting out of the crisis, said also expert Mladjan Dinkic of G17, or that the crisis is behind us, as said expert Boris Tadic of the Democratic Party. In light of the work related to the basic objectives and guidelines of economic policy in 2010, you say – economic contraction and external adjustment caused a reduction of public revenues and an increase in the fiscal deficit. This kind of bombistic expression hides the inability and infirmity and carelessness of the state, i.e. the dilettane leadership of a state based on political manipulations and economic speculation. In Article 2. The draft budget law says that the projected deficit will cover the largest part of the loan, and the smaller part of the donations, through the broadcasting of government securities from values and from neutral assets from previous years, and if funds from privatisation are provided over the year, credit sources of funding will be reduced proportionally. In other words, if you succeed in selling something that you have not yet sold, and which has been created in the past decades by hard work, with great savings and the denial of Serbian citizens, the calculated deficit will be covered. So let's sell and spend. This year, the deficit reached 28 billion dinars in September, projected by the 2009 budget. Now you're asking us to adopt three times the 2010 deficit. I wonder, which economy can withstand this, especially since I am sure that this deficit will also be overcome in view of the appetites of our ministers, their assistants, advisors, government agencies, directors, various offices and cabinets. On the Health and Family Committee, we heard from the finance ministry's representative that the budget was drawn up as a result of a compromise among ministers. You shouldn't have explained it to us, because we know that you've handled rotten compromises, not economic principles and indicators. The so-called "socially responsible government" says the draft budget law will freeze salaries to all direct and indirect users of the budget, the budget of the local government unit and the organisation of compulsory social security, except for the elected, appointed and appointed persons in the judicial bodies. Also, there will be no account of the payment of 'Christmas and Annual Jubilee Awards', other types of prizes and bonuses, provided for special and individual collective contracts for direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. I've worked in health care for 24 years, and I've never gotten any of it, but I'm just afraid for Bojan Krishte and his like favorite regimes to survive without a bonus. As far as employment is concerned, you say you can't hire people in institutions if they don't have a staff plan and the Ministry of Finance disagrees, but that doesn't apply to so-called. administrative capacity, for European integration. In addition to the existing number of employees, new administrative workers will be employed. So the further we are from European integration, conditioned by new and new reasons, the more and more we need administrative capacity. In the end, I'd like to say something about the 59th section relating to health care. And here we have restrictions from last year's budget, for almost one billion dinars. In conditions of high growth of chronic non-infectious diseases, such as cardiovascular, malignant, where we are highly listed in both Europe and the world, as well as in the case of diabetes and general morbidity, a reduction in the budget for healthcare is not expected. However, our situation is reversed. At least it's invested where it's most needed, in people's health. The biggest surprise for me is to abandon the economic classification of stimulating birth, improving reproductive health and family planning. The next year, the funds will not be allocated to a minimum of 4.3m dinars allocated for this year. It's an incredible country's concern for the catastrophic fall of Natalie. Let me remind you, Serbia broke out fourth in the world at the age of population. Investment in human health, an increase in the birth rate is not consumption, according to the IMF's Libyan bureaucracy. On the Health Committee, we also heard from the government's representatives that part of the health services... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33528	Five minutes. Thank you. The word is held by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who also issued an opinion at a session of the Health and Family Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33529	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have delivered an opinion on the Health Committee and I will speak about the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Simply, the five-minute time allows me to try to clarify some things and some misunderstandings with Mrs Dragutinovic, the finance minister. So, Madam Minister, MPs can't influence the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute to change it, to influence the amendments. We get it as one document that we plead and this is an opportunity to point out a few things in a debate like this, in a separate opinion. Let's start in a row. First of all, I see here that the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, as far as the revenue side is concerned, amounts to 187 billion dinars, which is less than seven billion dinars compared to last year's plan. Question for you – how to achieve this income? So, aware of the situation in which the state is located, how many people in Serbia are left out of work today, how many companies and businesses do not pay this contribution and is this a real setting, and is this a real figure that is projected as the income side of the Republic Health Insurance Office? You'll see when it's done, and that's how it's done in the past budget, what it looks like. I have before me a proposal for this budget for last year and in the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute said that the GDP growth rate would be 3.5%, and we started at 7.5%, so the budget rebalance was reduced – four, so we saw where we arrived. It's a very interesting thing, Madam Minister, to mention, in the past financial plan, a surplus of 6 billion dinars of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. (You can find that document. I ask you - where is this surplus, where is it shown, and what happened to that surplus? When it's planned, then there's some other stuff. In the new draft budget law, you predicted a real GDP growth of 1.5%. That's right. And look what the Republic Institute tells you, what it predicts. The Republic Health Insurance Institute - the real GDP growth rate is 0.00%. What difference does that make? How much is 1% of GDP? Is that about 300 million euros? Well, then what happens to that money? How is it possible to have one estimate and the Republic Institute has another estimate? Is there any communication between you as finance minister and director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute? What is your assessment based on, and on what is the assessment of the Republic Health Insurance Office based? So, that's some stuff. The next thing you know, when you look at the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, it's in the eye that there's been an increase in employees at the Republic Health Insurance Office. The 2008 data are 2.598, 1.7.2009 is 2,677. And we're talking about reducing the administration. Well, is that a reduction in the administration when you increase the number of employees by 80 people?- I'm sorry. Material costs go up a few times, and whose money is that? Tax taxpayers who spend their money on all sorts of things, and at least spend it on what they're meant to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33530	The word is given by MP Pai Momchilov, who gave an opinion at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I took an opinion on the Health Committee when we discussed the items of the new budget. We saw you were bored here yesterday in the election of countless laws. I'm just going to remind you, dear colleagues, of a thought from the past, a long time ago, a known thinker, who, roughly, said like this, "the more laws and regulations, the more thieves and robbers." This is what Lao Ce said, six centuries before the new era, and now, as the situation stands with us – you see for yourself. I mean, look why I'm talking. Today we have a strange way of adopting the most important document of this House, which is the budget for the Republic of Serbia. I hold in my hand something that is from the cradle of parliamentary democracy, the way laws are passed. Gentlemen of the government, this is Europe, this is how the three-reading laws are adopted with committees, where the minimum procedure, in the happiest case, takes a few months, where you always have a few hundred amendments, and this kind of acceleration, as you do, really raises doubts as to why you're doing it. It's clear to us that in this way you're making a budget to hide everything you're trying to hide from this presentation, in the way you've presented it to us. That's quite clear. If it were a different situation, we would have a European way of passing this law. What's this about? Why I took my opinion off the table. First, because this budget is completely against the interests of Serbia's citizens' health and it is something that directly endangers the health of Serbian citizens. This is why, if we start from your assumptions, which you've been running, when you think this budget is sustainable and it will be, let's see what you've said – you expect an improvement in the economic situation by looking at macroeconomic indicators and, here, you've already plotted that GDP growth is going to be 1.5%. According to you, we have a better situation, we have a better situation in both employment and a better situation in profit. And in that better situation, you reduce the resources you spend on health. Who does that in the world today, to deal with it a little bit? So we have a better situation, we would expect that health may be better when you reduce funds. No, the people of Serbia are sicker! The people of Serbia have two major epidemics that destroy it: chronic non-infectious diseases and cancer! The people of Serbia will also face the flu pandemic. We have an additional deterioration in the health situation and that's reality, and in that situation you reduce resources. What is it like in the developed world and in Europe? According to the Republican Party in America, an increase of 0.8% is expected in next year's US budget for health. How's England? In England, the largest item in the public spending budget is for health and pension, the 119 billion pounds is set aside. Last year, 110 billion pounds were allocated. Why do the English do that? Why are the English raising costs? They're raising costs because they also have a pandemic flu. Scots up by 2.5%. And you? You are reducing and depriving the sick people of Serbia! Somebody's gonna say, "Is that true?" Of course, it's only true if you look at the items according to the Ministry of Health and you'll see clearly that last year you gave 12 billion and 353 million, and this year you're giving 11 billion. Look at these numbers, there's a lot of things here to say that is untransparent, which is a direct cover-up of crime in the health sector, corruption, but we don't have time to talk about it. You've shortened and decapitated this debate for the reason that you're bringing one to the people a harmful budget. [[Applause]] I point my fingers directly at the government of the Republic of Serbia to damage the health of my people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33532	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, who issued an opinion on the Committee on Health and Family.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33533	On the Committee on Health and Family, I issued an opinion on the 2010 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. At the time of the economic crisis, unemployment, poverty, fear, the pandemic of H1N1 flu, the draft budget law, split 59, relating to the health ministry, amounts to nearly one billion less at the 2009 rebalancing level. It's inappropriate to cut the health budget at a time when more and more people die and fewer children are born. The number of people in Serbia is in constant decline. The mortality of the population is on a steady rise. That's what the following facts point to. The rate of mortality, i.e. dying in Serbia, is 13.9 per thousand inhabitants, while the natural age rate is down and is 4.7 per thousand. What is extremely worrying is that Serbia is fourth in the list of the oldest populations in the world. Therefore, the SRS does not understand the reduction of taxpayers' resources for their health. We believe that it is inhumane and irresponsible to lead a restrictive policy in the form of a right to health care. According to US Data Bureau on the population of the Republic of Serbia, the following forecasts are expected, which are not at all brilliant. In 2007, Serbia had 7.3 million inhabitants, and in 2025 it will have 6.8 million inhabitants, meaning five million people less. In 2050, it will have 5.9 million inhabitants, as it was in 1950. The World Health Organization has long warned that the economic crisis has negatively affected general mental health, including an increase in suicides. The inability of an individual to cope with poverty and unemployment sooner or later will affect health physically or mentally. Budgetors for 2010 do not have a specific strategy to improve the health status of the population, improve the quality and efficiency of health care and establish a sustainable financing system in line with the current situation in Serbia. The health budget wastes irrationally public funds on unnecessary projects and inefficient public services, significantly limiting efforts made towards reducing poverty and improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens. The state administration continues to increase, and the number of health workers continues to decrease. Doctors and healthcare professionals are becoming less and less employed in health institutions. The main cause of this lies in the fact that the money arrives regardless of the results. It is an irrational consumption of money and taxpayers, and the health system reform for the past 10 years is visible by new facades and new windows at the oronical health institutions. Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33534	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Connections want a word, MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Milan Veselinovic? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33535	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the budget should be a strong political document protecting the priorities of society and encouraging healthy sectors of the economy, and taking care of the country's future. However, we have today received a document and are discussing the 2010 draft budget, which is a compromise of ruling parties, and does not meet any of the criteria previously said. While the LDP here in the Serbian Parliament supported all the proposals that led to visa liberalisation and the defrosting of the Trade Agreement, especially at times when there was no will in the ruling coalition, the Serbian government, or individual ministers, were arguing with the region. Madam Minister, when you represented the 2010 budget, you should also answer one question – where will the Sandzak citizens, the Sandzak economy, trade, export, when you quarreled with Montenegro, with BiH, when we are in such bad relations with the Kosovo Albanians? Where do you think we can make some money? What is this neighboring country that we from the Sandzak area can work with? Speaking of visa liberalisation, what does that mean for young Sandzaks, when the draft budget spends their potentials, their future, closing their chances through this redistribution in the budget? Even when there are some funds that can be used by young people, we come into a situation where young people from Sandzak are discriminated against, as was the case in 2009, Mr. Shijakovic is there, students of the Islamic Faculty in Novi Pazar, who cannot use a scholarship on those criteria defined by the Ministry of Religion. We know this well who belong to the Islamic community and you, Mr. Minister. Also, if we are talking about subsidies, subsidies to public enterprises, I will be talking here too much about subsidies for the public company "Serb Railways". The 2010 budget proposed three billion dinars more than for 2009, and we didn't even get an answer for what subsidies had been spent in the previous year for "The Railway of Serbia". We need to get an answer here in the Serbian Parliament – will 'the subsidies of 12 billion dinars for the Serbia Railway's citizens be able to expect better cars, clean cars, correct locomotives, a timetable that is respected, and not late for 5-6 hours? What do citizens get with these subsidies? What is the cost of these subsidies? I have here the World Bank Report – How to do with less, where it is said for the Serbian Railways" that the operational losses of this company are partly covered by government subsidies, which now exceed the revenues from their own business, budget subsidies cover 54% of the working costs, but this World Bank report says – the majority of direct opportunities to improve the financial situation of the "Serb Railways" are on the dissipated side. Why did this draft budget not accept what the World Bank has proposed in a document called – How to do with less? We obviously got a budget saying how to do more less, that is, will we finally get to the restructuring of the Railways in 2010? Will there be a reduction in the number of employees? What has the "Serb Railways" management done to justify those subsidies he has received so far, or what has Serbian Railways Management proposed to justify an increase of three billion dinars of subsidies in the coming period? These are all questions that we need to get an answer to so that we can discuss the budget in an adequate way, because what we're talking about, these are political problems. Finally, Madam Minister, you must say, to us citizens who come from the Sandzak area, Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Pryboja, what are you going to do to change that World Bank finding, that the Sandzak region is an active poor population area, or that people are not being burned to meet their basic needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33536	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs want a word, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandar Pejcic? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33537	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I have issued my opinion on the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. If it were luck, we would be talking about some other points of the agenda today. First of all, on the report of the Auditor's State Institution, on the final account, if it were luck, this budget would still be here on November 1st in the assembly procedure. I singled out my opinion on division 21, which speaks of the funds addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. If we combine certain countries in the EU, such as Portugal, which is gabaritically equal to our country by population and per area, then we will see one disproportion. In fact, Portugal invests much more in social policy, giving much more to its poorest layer than it is Serbia, four times more. Portugal, in that sense, stands out about four billion dinars. When it comes to this issue, I have become closely attached to a problem that plagues the citizens of Jablani County, i.e. Wartime military reserve. These days, there was a protest of wartime military reservers protesting that the state had failed to comply with the commitments it had promised them, which are backlogs of war. There were 15,000 reserves from the Jablani County fighting in Kosovo. A lot of them didn't come back from that space. The state promised to make up for those war logs. The mayor himself, who was guarded by the police the day before yesterday, 100 armed officers, because the reservers wanted to see them and talk, because he promised them that those funds would be paid off, and none of it was. You in this budget have not shown very little goodwill to help these people. In fact, through one amendment we tried to help you, it would be good to consider that amendment, to look at it, because the amendment is good and excellent and to make a gesture of goodwill. I hope that's how it's gonna be, and that's what the Jablani County reserves expect from you. When it comes to this budget, according to our Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, it is about one development budget, it is the fruit of talks between the IMF and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, DSS MPs will in principle and in particular prove that it is not about the development budget but that it is about one devastating budget for Serbia's economy and for the standard of Serbian citizens. Namely, what bothers us and tortures us is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is investing in what it used to say is a decade's work, which is, in fact, a fraud of the decade, investment in the "Fiat". This year, the government has defined over 150m euros for "Fiat", although the Government of the Republic of Italy is not helping the Fiat factory, we have defined that and how we help them. Then, the government defined 100m euros as a guarantee in a deposit for all those companies that will be co-operatives with the future Fiat factory, as well as what we do not understand, and that is what we want you to explain to us, Madam Minister, two million euros for consulting services. In fact, we know that there is already a cooperative firm between the Fiat and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we do not understand why the two million, when one company is already doing business. We fear that these funds will be used for other purposes, perhaps funds placed in another campaign, in some subsequent elections to be called. Also, we expected this government to invest much more in agriculture, given that agriculture is the branch of the economy most lost in the unilateral application of the Stabilisation Agreement. We expected much more funding and subsidies precisely in this economic branch. The order of size says that around 150 million, and indirectly about 300 million, have been lost due to the unilateral application of the Stabilisation Agreement. Here is an opportunity to encourage the development of agriculture, to help the farmer, to help farmers by increasing subsidies precisely in agriculture and making agriculture one generator for the development of the entire economy of Serbia. In the end, what I want to tell the citizens of Serbia is one devastating budget, not the development budget, as presented here by the prime minister. It would be good for you to look at the DSS amendments, adopt them and defend what you can't defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33538	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the Committee on Education want a word, the People's Messenger Zoran Shami and the People's Messenger and Nikola Žutić? MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33539	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I have issued an opinion on the Education Committee because I am completely dissatisfied with the education budget. We will discuss other important issues related to this budget later in the debate. In this presentation, I'll only stick to section 60, which refers to education. This year's education budget is approximately at the level of last year, maybe about ten million dinars smaller, but that's just nominal. It is clear that it is smaller, if anything, for the degree of inflation. In particular, it should be borne in mind that, unfortunately, again in the education budget, some 98% of the funds go directly to the salaries. In other words, all the employees in the education will be, as the budget envisions, frozen salaries, but will essentially have 10% salary lower. If the social side is a question, then it is clear that there is nothing left from the socially responsible government. But that's not the only reason I answered. I've reported first of all because for years, it seems to me, when we adopt budgets or budget rebalancing, I'm already bored of myself, I'm telling the same story that nobody, but absolutely no one, is going to hear. Clearly, 107 billion is not a small amount of money, that's about seven budgets. We spend that seventh budget, 98% on wages. In one bitter joke I said and I will repeat – when these 98% rise to 100%, we can freely end the Ministry of Education, we will probably be the only country in the world that doesn't have the Ministry of Education. What does the Ministry of Education actually have to do? If 100% goes to salaries, then two officers are enough at the Ministry of Finance to type in expenses and all is settled. There are no dinars for any design, no need for anything to be designed in such an important area as education for every country, I suppose, for ours. This government, and the Ministry of Education, have done absolutely nothing in the past year to change something in that logic. It is quite clear that there is a way to change the way of funding education, that one way to think about is for people who work effectively in education to get more, and to leave more resources in development jobs, because, you know, education is an inert system and if you want to fix it in the next five or ten years, you have to start doing it today, not to say yesterday. Therefore, we are pleased that all those who are employed in the education are practically officers of the Ministry of Education, from university professors to primary school cleaners, all of us are in direct working relationship with the Ministry of Education. In doing so, schools are not at all encouraged to use their resources in enriching the offers they offer, through additional teaching, additional education, etc. On the other hand, local self-government is not encouraged to do anything, say, to touch some specialized school in its town, to have some specialized high-level school, etc. That's all things to do. So, year after year, education workers will get less and less, we'll spend a week on their salaries and, in fact, education will be where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33540	Does MP Nikola Žutic, who has issued an opinion on the Committee on Education, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33541	Gentlemen, part of the budget dedicated to education is written in general form, without concreteising certain items of income and expenditure. During the discussion in the Committee on Education, Minister Obradovic asked questions concerning donations from NGOs, international organisations. From such a general budget, you can't see what NGOs are, international organisations. Do they work from anti-state positions or from anti-Serbian positions? If such organisations act from the anti-state and anti-traditional positions of the Serb people, will their donations be conditional on an educational policy, which will not contribute to the state and people?- I'm sorry. If historical retrospectives are observed, but also today in some countries that care about their sovereignty, it is noticeable that provisions on the need for national education, the establishment of a state idea, as well as state and national unity have been introduced into the educational legislation. Today's Serbian Educational Law, however, has been cleared of such provisions, leading to a devastating policy of educational liberalism and an unauthorized amount of educational autonomy, when it comes to the national state strategy. The textbooks are a particularly big problem in the entire education system. I suppose the minister will answer that the Ministry of Education is not authorized to oversee the scientific and professional work of higher education institutions, that is, that each university performs independently and creates its own professional and scientific profile and that is fine by me. But it should not be forgotten that in serious countries, the ministry must direct the national and moral work of professors, national and moral behavior of students. On the Committee, Mr. Minister, I said that, as a rule, in the course of enrollment of the year, students who have not worked enough, studied, organized strikes, and that's actually true. The question arises – is it the moral side of such students? As for the national course in certain schools of social sciences, it is evident that individual universities are Americanized, or mondialysed, probably under pressure from various previously mentioned donations and donors. Traditional science is being suppressed. An exotic scientific truth, based on documentary research, puts it in a different plan, ahead of an aggressive strategy of international mondialization, knowledge and knowledge. I was recently approached by students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, their Serbian political forum, protesting what they themselves say is the Americanisation of the teaching and scientific plan at the Faculty of Political Sciences. A similar situation is at the individual departments of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade where lectures are conducted by the analytical elements of the Croatian orientation. At individual private universities, the situation is even worse, as far as national and moral work is concerned with students. On many occasions in the Assembly, I mentioned the international state of affairs at the Law Faculty of Union University, asking questions to Minister Obradovic, but I received more or less administrative answers. The University of Megatrend, for example, was financed directly from the Exim Bank, Orlando - Florida, to establish an American educational institution in Serbia. In the end, I ask the question - who should protect the state, scientific and educational sovereignty, if not the Ministry of Education? I guess someone in this country has to take care of the anti-national events in social science colleges. Who in Serbia is the controller of national and moral work in colleges? The higher education laws are completely unedited to me, so I suggest the Minister of Education to consider amendments and additions to the existing Law on Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33542	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Finance want a word, MPs Jorvanka Tabaković, Radojko Obradović, Slobodan Maras and Zoran Krasic? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33543	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have issued an opinion on the Finance Committee. I'll explain it in a few minutes. The first limiting thing for this debate is that we are discussing the 2010 budget, and we still don't know how they were spent, and in what frameworks, the money for 2009. In fact, it's quite clear that a rebalance must be adopted, and that rebalancing represents, in fact, when the budget law is passed, and that's the budget base for next year. The second thing, it was very important to discuss the State Auditing Institution Report and the third thing, the final account. Of course, we've been discussing this for the last few years, but the lucky thing is that for the first time, the State Auditing Institution has submitted its report. What was mentioned most often in the public opinion is that in no way is the essence of the work of the State Auditing Institution, and I would point out this opportunity. The point isn't to file criminal and criminal charges. Of course, it is an obligation under the law to do so for all abuses and all mistakes. The point is to determine whether the money is spent rationally and whether there are systemic failures. It is our obligation to point out that in all the budgets for next year, we have already had a chance for 2010, to remove these gaps. I doubt it's the only error of the bookkeeping character and will be removed by one afternoon course to which only accountants from the Ministry will go. I think it's a different guy's mistake and we should have discussed it here. Another flaw is, is there going to be laws here to define budget implementation? We hear from the papers that there are, that there will be a tax on property and other taxes. It was convenient and it would be necessary to discuss it immediately, so the basic question is asked – do we need the budget and, if necessary, what is the purpose of this budget? Is the budget just a thousand pages of different numbers, which reflect how money will be spent, or does that budget have a far deeper character? The main purpose of the budget is to show us where a society is going. The main purpose of the budget is to show through revenues and expenditures what the government's economic policy is and what the government's policy is in general, and to see what their short and long-term projections are like. There is only one page in this budget of a thousand pages on economic policy. There's a Memorandum, but I'd rather not quote the Memorandum, there's all kinds of things in different sections. About the budget, I say, there is only one side to economic policy based on which nothing can be concluded on reforms. The IMF was here and as a key problem, Serbia stressed that the problem is the public sector and the problem is the issue of wages and pensions. There is almost nothing about these things in the Memorandum and in the budget, except that the salaries are frozen, i.e. salaries and pensions are frozen for another year and that the first alignment will be made accordingly on 1 April 2011. What is a strategy and what is tactics is hard to see from this budget. It is clear that borrowing tactics, and what strategy and what growth model will be in the future, cannot be seen from this document. It is clear that the only way out for Serbia is to create new jobs and structural reform of the economy. When you look at this budget, the number of jobs in Serbia is projected to increase by zero per cent next year, and for the next three years, by 2012, the number of new jobs is only 31,000. So, at the end of 2012, in Serbia, 31,000 people will be employed more than they are today. If it's such a small number of jobs, then it's completely irrelevant that we're talking here about some percentages, estimates and some other categories that can be shown one way or another. The point is in new jobs, they're gone, and it's best to talk about this whole document. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33544	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33545	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have issued an opinion on the Finance Committee. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to single him out on other committees, because it wasn't possible to do that, but first I have to say that everything that follows this budget is radical. We had a violation of the deadlines, the Budgetary System Act, there was no consultation with you, Madam Minister, which I think was necessary, because I do not believe that you want this to be just your budget and the budget of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I believe you want to have a wider support. Farsa is what happened yesterday on the Committee and on the Financial Committee. Farsa is that you refused, not you, but the Serbian Parliament, or those who lead her, to discuss the State Audit Institutions Report and the 2008 Final Account before entering this debate on the 2010 budget, for a simple reason to see where the gaps are, to point out what can no longer be done, in the end line, so that you who are leading this government know where you have sinned and whether there have been irregularities in the way you have done. The problem with this 2010 budget is that there is no strategy and no economic strategy, the only strategy that exists is that nothing changes. As you said yesterday that this budget is social and stimulating, I believe it's only clear to you what it means. This means, first of all, that he is populist – we will tell the citizens and we will encourage the economy, and we will also take care of the social welfare. I believe that all citizens know best what awaits them in 2010, because you can see from this budget and what's the prime minister in three minutes yesterday, you guys have tried to present yourself, that nothing will change. The LDP focused its amendments on reviving agrarians, i.e. raising agrarian budgets, for education, for science, for the simple reason that we have a major problem with this government continuing its policy towards maintaining and subsidising failed public enterprises. My colleague Kenan Hajdarevic asked a question about the subsidies related to the Railways. We tried the most from that item to take down and move on to these details that we thought were important to you, above all, agrarian. You will surely say that the agrar for 2010 is bigger than for agrar for 2009, but is smaller than it was in 2008. You will surely say that subsidies are higher than last year, but are less than they were in 2008. I have to tell you that the agrar budget is almost ten times lower than the total pension budget. We have a big problem, which the Minister of Agriculture said, that all the obligations that exist, above all towards the pensioners, which you take great care of, about the farmers, who arrived in 2009, will only be realised in 2011. We didn't get an answer – why, not from your co-workers from the Ministry of Finance. Also, Madam Minister, there is a constitutional obligation when it comes to Vojvodina. At least 7% of Serbia's budget is set aside for the AP Vojvodina budget. When we analyze a little bit, since you've avoided this time, or so you've put together a budget where there's no special member, as has been a member of the 4th that's been saying how much money goes and everything else in amounts -- when we add those 26 billion going on capital expenditures and another 6 billion, how much the transfers will be to local self-government, we realize that anything more than a percentage or a percentage and a half of those predicted 7% will go on capital investments. That was said by the circuit finance secretary himself, who announced budget rebalancing, because many items, due to the delay in adopting the Statute and the relationship the government had under the Statute and the Law on Jurisdiction, did not come to be covered by this budget, nor by the budget for the AP Vojvodina. I think you'll have to take care of that and we'll see you on the rebalancing very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33546	Five minutes. Thank you. Does MP Zoran Krasic want a word? He took an opinion on the Finance Committee. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33547	Without intending to repeat some of the views expressed by the members of the Committee on Finance who have issued an opinion, I just want to continue to remind all MPs and the public that on 29 May this year, the National Assembly passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, that is so-called. a programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector. It allowed the Republic of Serbia to borrow about 35m euros from the World Bank. To get that loan, Mrs Dragutinovic, we had to run to prove something. Here is what has been shown: that the Republic of Serbia has adopted the principles for the restructuring of enterprises, that it has adopted a strategy for the revision of legal, sub-legal and other acts, that it has offered to sell the two largest recipients of state subsidies, that it has been decided on 31 December 2008 as the deadline since privatisation, point 5) refers to the very concrete sale of social enterprises, point 6) that the budget was adopted where the budget allocation for the State Auditing Institution was made in an acceptable manner, point 8) that the privatisation of the insurance company DDOR "New Sad" was completed. Since you have applied and proved that you have done all of this, you have obtained this credit for: implementing fiscal adjustment measures, promoting the level of productivity of business, to achieve the growth of gross social product, to reduce inflation, to increase the share of investment in the gross social product from 24% to 28%, to create new 200 000 jobs, to reduce the unemployment rate from 19 to the expected 12% at the end of 2012. The regulatory reform strategy was also an obligation, to promote investments in the energy sector, to reduce the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the financial sector from 17.5% to 10%, this refers primarily to banks and we have one such draft law on the agenda, and to reduce the state's participation from 34% to 30% in the capital of insurance companies. At this session, in addition to the budget, we have a law confirming the Agreement with the World Bank, a programme loan for the development of public finances. Also, we had to run for the 70m euros. What did we prove? That we have passed a new Bill on the Budgetary System, which absolutely relativised the issue of responsibility, an extremely complicated regulation. To literally apply that law, we probably need 5,000 employees. And why five thousand officials, the best showing us the reviewer's 2008 report. We were obliged to pass a new law on public procurement. It's been brought in. You know it's being applied somewhere, and somewhere it's absolutely not being applied, like these public enterprises of republican importance. We had to prove that there was an external review of the 2008 report, and that's what the National Assembly won't discuss, and that's the reviewer's report. So that report was necessary to put 70 million in debt, not to allow us to see what our finances are like. That's the point of this whole story. This is where the story comes down to -- how to take money from abroad, and whether in a few years the net assets should be reduced, and the citizens and the state, it's not what this government is interested in. Because there's a question -- hold the water. Furthermore, to create public debt management and to maintain the level of social protection and social rights in the Republic of Serbia for 2010 at the level of 2009. That's why we have a genocide bill on pension and disability insurance, a genocide bill that regulates the financial benefits that parents receive for children, and that I don't say anything further. When you take these 70 million, you will spend it to improve poor financial management, to control the mass of earnings, to strengthen the capacity of social assistance, etc., etc. Excuse me, please, if you look at the reviewer's 2008 report... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33548	Five minutes, thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to say that in the course of the session so far, all the MPs who wanted to speak and gave an opinion to one of the committees in the Finance Committee's report have had a chance. The People's Messenger Đuro Peric has the word, and the People's Messenger Pastor Balint, then the Messenger of the People, Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33549	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, came forward with a hunch voiced during the 2009 budget rebalancing debate that the global economic crisis, along with the already existing, which we have, will directly influence and have negative effects on the economy and finance in Serbia. Let us remember that there were conflicting claims, even if it could be an advantage for the development of our economy. I do not argue that the negative indicators of the main macroeconomic indicators in 2009 are the result of only the impact of the global economic crisis, although it is obvious, we must also consider our own weaknesses and insufficient efficiency in certain segments of the economic system. That's right, given all this, in the first half of this year, gross social product decreased by 4.1% compared to the same period in 2008. The physical volume of production for the first 10 months of this year compared to the same period in 2008 decreased by 14%, the exports of goods in the first 10 months decreased by 22.4% and imports by 30.7%. The foreign trade deficit at the end of September this year was 3.8 billion euros. The total number of employees in January-September 2009 decreased by about 2%. These are all indicators given in, in the opinion of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, extremely good and analytically comprehensive material for the 2010 draft budget and the revised budget and fiscal policy memorandum for 2010 with projections for 2011 and 2012. Citing these in the material of presented indicators, our intention is to highlight and underline how much effort and highly designed economic policy we must have in order to achieve the envisaged indicators for the 2010 budget and the macroeconomic framework for the 2010-2012 period. Of course, it looks forward to the fact that in the fourth quarter of this year, which is just approaching the end, an deepening of recession tendencies after a sharp fall during the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. This resulted in measures of government economic policy and monetary policy measures by the National Bank of Serbia. There are certainly inevitable IMFs with their financial support of 2.9 billion euros, the World Bank and others. With that in mind, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is based, as we can see, on the 2009 economic movement assessment, on the projection of the 2010 macroeconomic indicators, the planned economic policy. The main objectives and economic policy guidelines in 2010 will be directed according to the Government's proposal to maintain macroeconomic stability in conditions of crisis, economic recovery and the creation of conditions for the return of sustainable, real growth rates, the continuation of the European integration process and implementation of structural reforms, in particular the public sector. I would only retain myself on a number of projected basic macroeconomic indicators for 2010 that, if realised, would represent a major turning point in Serbia's economic development, which the PUPS Parliamentary Group earnestly wants and supports. For example, it is predicted that the annual rate of real GDP growth from minus 3% in 2009 is 1.5%, personal consumption from minus 7%, investments from minus 22.3% to 4.7%, exports of goods and services from minus 8% to 6.2%, imports from minus 16.8% to 4.8%. In my opinion, it should be comprehensive to see if such forecasts are realistic and whether, with all efforts and measures, they can be realized. The PUPS parliamentary group believes it would be extremely good if the turning point in Serbia's 2010 economy were achieved. This would allow for the real proposed development projection to be made in 2011 and 2012. I would also briefly refer to the draft financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. For 2010, donations and transfers to the Fund are scheduled to amount to 215 billion dinars, amounting to 45.59% of the necessary funds. The relationship remained at almost the same level as it was in 2009. The main problem is that contributions to pension and disability insurance still do not pay regularly and are significantly lower than they would have to be. For about 600,000 insurance companies, contributions are paid for pension and disability insurance on a much lower salary than should be paid, or irregularly paid, and in the gray economy, which is still very high, no contributions are paid at all. A large number of employees suffer pension leave, and then the state has to pay them in order for such insurance companies to exercise their right to retire. It is still estimated that debts for the unpaid contribution are moving over 100 billion dinars. Otherwise, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund's financial plan is also burdened with certain things that should be transferred to other transfers, such as pensioners' health insurance, which is carried out only by transferring from the PIO Fund to the Health Insurance Fund, which amounts to about 50 billion dinars. Then, other transfers for other social categories and institutions, such as physical damage, other care and assistance, as well as some others, totalling about 70 billion, which would mean much less in the plan when assessing how much is spent on our PIO fund. In Article 39. The draft law on Serbia's 2010 budget provides that, if a mandatory social security organisation's 2010 income is made in 2010 on the basis of a contribution to compulsory social security is less than the amount of financial plans established for 2010, the boards should agree on what the government also gives consent to and limit expenditures in line with reduced revenues. I agree that both administrative committees and business bodies in compulsory social security organisations are engaged to the maximum extent within the limits of their powers, to keep their incomes and expenditures balanced. The United Pensioners' Group of MPs believes that the financial ministry control authorities and others are obliged to work much more efficiently and persistently on the mandatory collection of contributions. I'm afraid that if it continues in practice so far, there are no pension-related problems, especially in the farmers' pensions sector. In fact, both public sector and pension earnings will be frozen according to the 2010 budget proposal. According to the 2011 financial plans, pensions will be harmonised twice for around 8%, as well as in 2012. Otherwise, the average pension ratio and average net earnings in the period January – October 2009 was 63.3%. Because of the current state of security of pension funds, constant pressures are being made to reduce pensions, so on the one hand, we have expectations of a large number of pensioners, about 500,000 of them with pensions of up to 10,000 dinars, is the biggest problem with agricultural pensioners. - they all expect an increase in pensions. On the other hand, great efforts are being made to keep pensions on the existing level and not to reduce them. Many of the government's members, including Deputy Prime Minister Dr Jovan Krkobabic, were hired to do so. We hope that the upcoming reform of the pension and disability system, which is being worked intensively, as well as the findings in Article 42(2). The budget law, that the government will monitor monetary-financial and economic developments in 2010 and, accordingly, can propose appropriate measures, help to do something to stabilise the pension system in general, which is very good and positive that this problem also starts to be dealt with seriously. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law on Serbia's budget and follow-up acts in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33550	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33551	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have been forced to tell the same story every year because since the adoption of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, it has never happened that the Government should refer the draft budget to the assembly procedure in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's, unfortunately, this year too. That's what I told the Serbian prime minister yesterday, and I told you, Madam Minister, today at the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. That's when I promised you that I would argue these views in the debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, I don't have a hard assignment. I can easily prove to you that the proposed text of the budget is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This year, you've paid attention to the government, unlike in previous years, that at least nominal AP Vojvodina gets 7%. It's one big shift, because so far, it's never happened that at least 7% of the AP Vojvodina budget has been nominated nominally. That's what we've always been, to use that word, ironing it here in the debate, submitting amendments. You, in a rebalancing manner, accepted our amendment and admitted that the original proposal was not in line with the Constitution. This was the case in 2009, i.e. at the end of 2008, when we were making a budget for 2009, but we're going to have to carry out subsequent interventions this year. I hope that our amendment, which I will talk about later, will be accepted. If so, then the draft budget will be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then there will be no interference with voting for this proposed budget. Like I said, over the years, we've been looking for nothing for ourselves. We ask for respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because a state that tramples its own Constitution or which selectively respects the Constitution has nothing to look for in the EU. If so, then all stories about the EU's approach are pointless. Let's see what Article 184 says first. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The budget of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia"... It's respected this year, and I'm going to give it a three-time tip. There is no end to the sentence in Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, rather than the comma, is said to be "using three weeks of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina's budget to finance capital expenditures. '"This proposal does not respect this second part of the sentence of the Constitution. I am very glad that Mr Milutin Mrkonjic is there, as he fully understands how important capital investments are, capital expenditures and that the draft budget must provide funds for this, not only for the infrastructure to develop, but also for the constitution to be respected. Now let's see, why can I claim that the Constitution is not respected? If we look at the 2010 draft budget on what the funds are going to be, then we will see that dedicated transfers to finance expenditures for education employees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and to finance part of the programme in the field of culture amount to slightly less than 25 billion dinars. It's not capital expenditure, it's not capital investments, and it can't be. Further, dedicated, non-purpose transfers to local self-government units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina are recorded in the AP Vojvodina budget as revenue from the AP Vojvodina. The transfer funds from the Republic's budget are planned at the 2009 level, which means that these revenues from the AP Vojvodina in 2010 will amount to around 6.5 billion dinars. If we take into account the fact that for years back the cost of functioning of the AP Vojvodina, expenditure on employees, material costs, etc., is an average of around 2.8 billion dinars, and if we add these three figures – transfer funds for education and culture, transfer funds for units of local self-government and the cost of functioning of the AP Vojvodina, then there is, somewhere, more than 34 billion dinars. If we bear in mind the fact that the AP Vojvodina budget must be at least 55.8 billion dinars, in order to comply with the Constitution's provision that the AP Vojvodina budget must be at least 7% of the Republic's budget, then we see that there are at least two billion dinars missing for capital investments, provided that all other assets go to capital investments, capital expenditures. Of course, not all funds will go to capital investments, except for these transfer funds for education, culture, local self-government and the cost of functioning of the AP Vojvodina, but if we leave this very obliging assumption and then there are at least two billion dinars missing to respect Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in general. What I'm saying, today's edition of the newly-sad "Dnevnik" was also said by the country's finance secretary, Mr. Jovica Djukic. Mr. Jovica Djukic and I are not in the same party, so I guess it's not a coincidence, there can be no political abuse to say the same. And let's see what he specifically says about today's newly-sad "Dnevnik" Mr. Jovica Djukic, the province's finance secretary. It says – a total of 31 and a half billion dinars go to the total transfer funds from the republican budget to the province. Unspent funds from privatisation, plus income from the income tax of citizens and taxes on profits of enterprises belonging partly to the AP Vojvodina budget, by law, so, if we add all that up, then the effective budget that can be used for anything without these transfers is 20 billion dinars. It's certainly not and can't be three weeks from the AP Vojvodina budget. At that time, we haven't talked about the fact that out of these 20 billion dinars, the total provinces will have to allocate seven and a half billion dinars to cover the 2009 debt, given that public spending was limited this year. In total, the AP Vojvodina will have 12 billion dinars of effective budget, according to me and Mr Jovica Djukic. I wonder how the AP Vojvodina with 12 and a half billion dinars of effective money will be able to function in 2010. It is not only that, knowingly, the province of Vojvodina is asked to violate the constitution by not obtaining enough funds from the republican budget for capital expenditures, but the province will literally go bankrupt in a few months. It is not clear to me at all why we brought the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, then why we adopted in the National Assembly on 30 November the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, when the province will go bankrupt in a few months, because it simply will not be able to exercise its powers under the Constitution and under the law. This is not because non-intentional spending is not for any other reason, it is because the Republic budget of the province will not give effective money to finance its responsibilities. I don't know if the goal is to prove, or to show that the Executive Greater Autonomous province of Vojvodina is incompetent or the goal is something else, but the province of these funds won't be able to function, will not be able to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but the government of the Republic of Serbia also violates the Constitution of the state through this draft budget. How can this be fixed? It is very difficult to fix, but we have found some solution that, according to our hopes, is acceptable to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We proposed that a provision from the 2009 budget be prescribed on the use of funds from the privatisation of the Oil Industry of Serbia. We're not too happy about that solution, but we just don't see another solution. The 2009 budget introduced a provision in the last case that the budget would be voted in 2009, and then we pointed to a breach of the Constitution – a provision that 90% of the funds from the privatisation of the "Often Industry of Serbia" belonged to Vojvodina, with 50% of those funds being transferred immediately after the adoption of the 2009 budget and 40% after the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The plan was to adopt the Statute and the Law of Jurisdiction by the end of 2009. That happened, but since it happened on November 30th, it simply won't be possible to obtain these funds for the 2009 budget. We have modified this provision a little bit, copied and proposed in the form of an amendment in such a way that neutral funds from the privatisation of Serbia's Oil Industry, which, based on the 2009 budget belongs to the AP Vojvodina, are allocated by a decision on the AP Vojvodina's 2010 budget, but the assumption is that the funds of Vojvodina, the duchy budget, are derived from the republican budget. I hope there will be an understanding for this amendment, that we will find a solution to the normal functioning of the AP Vojvodina. I just want to point out that, unfortunately, this year neither the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund nor the AP Vojvodina Agricultural Development Fund, nor the AP Vojvodina Development Fund were able to discuss the competition because there was no funding for it in the province budget. I hope that this situation will not happen again in 2010 because in this case, the development of infrastructure and the development of the economy and the development of agriculture on the territory of the AP Vojvodina will stop. One can say – well, but Vojvodina has other funding and other incomes. That's not true. Those revenues are miserable. These revenues are almost nothing because no law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina has yet been passed, regardless of what was the constitutional obligation of the National Assembly until 31.12.2008, and no public property law has been passed, so I would ask Mrs. Minister - how are we standing with the public property law? I downloaded from the Ministry of Finance's website in October 2008 a work version of the law on public property, a law that local self-government and autonomous provinces should get their property back, but since then, here, for more than a year, nothing has happened. I don't know why the government hasn't yet set out the bill and delivered it to the Assembly for discussion and adoption. And until these laws are passed, Vojvodina has no original income from which it could finance its powers. If we look at the explanation of the draft budget, Mrs Dragutinovic, then this explanation is tragically in one part. The AP Vojvodina has been said to finance its responsibilities from the republic's budget, according to estimates of those ministries, which should also transfer both jurisdiction and funds to the AP Vojvodina, will target 133m dinars. Check for budget explanations. I don't know who thinks seriously that out of 133 million dinars, new powers can be financed, a total of 153, as foreseen by the adopted Statute of Vojvodina and the Law of Jurisdiction. So, once again, I hope that there will be an understanding for our amendment, that we will find a solution, and until that happens, I hope that for this whole story we have the support of all MEPs, regardless of party membership, and above all of the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina, who are our traditional partners in respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In two minutes, I'd like to talk about our second amendment. I raised that question today at a session of the Finance Committee. It's a question of the National Minority Budget Fund. On 31 August, the National Assembly passed the National Minority Councils Act, and the law envisions the establishment of a budget fund for national minorities. The fund would finance projects in the fields of education, culture, information, from those areas that are important for the preservation of the identity of members of national minorities. So, the law was passed just over three months ago, effective, envisions the budget fund for national minorities, and there is no sign of that budget fund in the draft. I don't know what the Republic Legislative Secretariat is doing. I don't know how the draft budget can arrive for next year which is contrary not only to the Constitution, but also to some adopted laws. If the current law provides that the budget fund should exist, then the budget fund should be a item in the budget for next year and we are not in the debate, whether there will be two dinars, two million dinars or two billion dinars. It's completely irrelevant at this point. It is important that this fund works and is foreseen by the budget provisions for next year. Given the fact that we know that the expenditures of the state cannot be increased, we suggested that two million dinars be taken from the Ministry of Culture, we had to take from someone, and put into this budget fund for national minorities. We took it from the Ministry of Culture, because the Ministry of Culture should also fund projects in the field of culture. I hope that our amendment will be accepted, too, because it is a legal obligation. The creation of this fund is, of course, a legal obligation. If there is an agreement, if the Constitution and the law are respected, then our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the 2010 draft budget. Otherwise, we won't be able to do it, but I hope there are arrangements and talks. You won't have to see us in the government press room. We can talk anywhere. All that matters is that these problems are solved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33552	The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33553	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the government, Mrs. Dragutinovic, would be more natural if we could see with you the Prime Minister, because this budget, as before, is the victim of a number of political weaknesses that cannot be removed as much as you try to present it differently. The economy has always been a victim of politics in this country, and that's how it is this time. Since Minister Mrkonjic is there, I think he will understand the LDP that is trying to prove that it is impossible to drive a train if the railway has only one rail. Your railroad, Mrs. Dragutinović, is just a track with one rail. How can the budget be both developmental and social, if on the basis of which it has been made before, and in the meantime neither have we developed, nor have social problems in society been solved? What you define as social policy is actually the charity of the state that previously destroyed its population. There are political representatives of one part of our society, pensioners, who last year i.e. This year cost Serbia half a billion euros more, and when you enter into the structure of these pensions, you see that half a million pensioners in this country with half a billion euros in raises have reached a pension of 13,000 dinars. Our main problem is that this country has reached a point where it is no longer possible to reconcile rights and obligations, the rights of people to a dignified life and the obligation of the state to make such a thing possible. That is why the precondition for a serious budget is a deal with the people who live in this country. That deal wasn't there. I don't want to ask you to answer the question why that deal wasn't, because that answer had to be given to us by the Prime Minister, who came in here yesterday with the ambition of a man to get out of the O.R. sooner than he would have stayed in it. If the Prime Minister won't defend his budget, then who will defend that budget? I'm talking politics, not division. You know that the public finances of this country are deeply compromised, that the compromised reports of the state auditor, that the government found justification in accounting errors, i.e. that the differences in the interpretations of the Government, i.e. the State Auditor, are responsible for the accounting officer. Maybe that's true, but you were obliged to allow here to discuss it, so that we could convince the citizens that we really care about that money that we take from them and that we spend on their behalf. Because we, Mrs Dragutinovic, support your government in its European efforts, not because we are selling our parliamentary mandates, but because it is clear to us that one party cannot bring Serbia to Europe, and even when we supported the radicals a year ago in their efforts to amend the preamble to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so they vote for this agreement, we have also done so confident that half of Serbia cannot go to Europe and the other one to stay. Can you be fair to the government in the morning and unfair in the afternoon? Why don't you defend your honesty here and prove it, but get us into a situation where the climate is so contaminated that we're all guilty? When you ask the average citizen of Serbia, the one we care about, and the one that you're sitting here for Saturday at 1200 hours, he sees frauds and thieves in us first, and as a rule in the last place, maybe someone who has good intentions and tries to do something. Here is the final account of the Belgrade City budget for 2008 with the Implementation Report. It was adopted by the City Assembly in June. It was done to insist on LDP and it was possible to do so with your budget for the previous year. It was only once done in 2002. It was done by the government of Zoran Djindjic, our government, which was destroyed by the March 12th murder. Since then, there has been no accounting for dealing with public finances from impotence, from the lack of space for such a thing, and for this is the ruling coalition. Now we're discussing the 2010 budget, and 90% of the people in this country think we're thieves, all of us, and that's a political problem, not an economy problem. If you are unable to defend your own political positions, how can anyone else do so? We're talking about the 100 billion difference in revenue and expenditure. I don't mean in the final account. I mean in the budget for next year. We're talking about pensioners and frozen pensions, and how much pensions will be increased. We're not talking about young people. How do we think about the future, because we've become a state that only thinks about ourselves at this point? Do we have any strategy? What's the budget going to look like next year, when it's clear we haven't done an analysis of the plans for this one? Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, how many projects have been implemented in your ministry's jurisdiction? You no longer know how many companies are responsible for that corridor yourself. One board of directors, another board of directors, one company, another company, third company. We at LDP have no use now to point at each other's disagreements and bickerings, but we are interested in the space that you have left us to make our initiatives better or to support you where it is good, and you need support, as was the case in some other situations. This budget is a victim of an powerless and incompetent government, and that's a fact. A government that tries to preserve existing relationships in society, and they're bad. A government that has not made an intergenerational agreement but shares charity with pensioners, by depriveing young people of the right to a normal future. You raised your pensions by 10% at the end of last year. One of the consequences of that increase is the dinar skating and falling from 78 to 95-96. The pensions have been depreciated, and half a billion euros have been spent in a project that has been pre-determined. The government must enable intergenerational solidarity, open space for us to create something in this country, and then with these new values we must ensure both our lives and the lives of those whose values have been wasted and destroyed, among other things, and because they have agreed to such a thing themselves. 18 billion dinars per month in a pension fund, and pensioners are the most politically conservative part of our society. They give the greatest resistance to European integration, they resist NATO integration. We want foreign investments, Mr. Gristle. So, where's the money? Only in the West! Where are the money being invested? Only where it's safe. Neither you nor I would have invested them where we thought they weren't safe. For the West, the security certificate is NATO's pact membership. Look at Romania and Romania's economic development, 140% growth in investment following NATO entry. We want to solve the problem of regional development. How are we going to develop Nis, how are we going to build a train knot in Nis when the trains from Nis are not going anywhere? Where are the trains from Nis? I can't go to Kosovo, we're not welcome there, we closed the door with the wrong policy, and twice as much exports to Kosovo as in Russia. What should we do in Montenegro? We had a fight with Montenegro. Should we buy a bar? What are our relations with the Montenegrins? What do we do in Bosnia? What should we do in Macedonia? We want to go to Europe, but with what idea? That Europe is funding our incompetence? We won't get that far. Therefore, Mrs Dragutinović, we do not need to divide, we need politics. If everything here in Parliament comes down to the individual efforts of ministers, to those pointless sessions like one of the last when Minister Ugljanin or Minister Ciplic represented the Ministry of Culture, Media, Science, since no one already wanted to defend this copyright law, then we cannot count on any improvement in the year ahead. Where do we see basic problems? If we're talking about development, it's just you. Excuse me, Mr. Šehovic, we have little to talk about with your ministry on the subject of the budget, but here is Minister Mrkonjic, and so are you, Mrs. Dragutinovic. Tell us what are the benefits of the phenomenal law on planning and construction that killed this country's construction industry, destroyed it? Just demagogues, populists and nothing else. It took 26 sublegal acts to be passed, only three were brought. People in Belgrade cannot change the tiles in their apartment, as it is also treated as a construction intervention. Forty percent of the country's gross social product stems from the construction industry's activities. 700 companies went down last year. We are expected to fail 500 in the year ahead, and we are the only ones in the world to pass a law that has introduced complete chaos. We're changing tax rates now. We'll see what tax rate is on the real estate here, and how much is in the surrounding countries. How far are we gonna go like that? They leave you and say, "Find money." You go out there and say, "We have to raise our taxes." And they say, "No, you can't raise taxes, but we'll sell something under the counter in black." So, what do we do tomorrow? Where did we get the money? Credits that are expensive, because there are major political risks here, and there is uncertainty in the country, unstable institutions, laws are not respected. The money can come from privatisation, but it's a sale, it's not a privatisation, and we've established these rules ourselves with this mess that followed the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia and the shame. What are our other sources of money? Greenfield investments. Well, what kind of conditions do we live in to have someone invest money here? What would someone invest money in Port of Belgrade, which has become a paradigm and political corruption and demagogy and incompetence of this society? Two billion euros is worth 70 hectares. There is no such thing in Dubai, but here we are now, neither that nor any other construction site in Belgrade is working today. You've adopted the General Urban Plan, a political project that's been under way for a year because of demagogy. You're the finance minister here who needs to come out and say, "Our direction of development is you, you, and you, and in order for them to happen, you have to do it, that and that!" The workers come out and lie on the tracks. And then the economy minister comes in and says the company shareholder has the money, so he needs to pay them that money. In what country do shareholders pay their workers money? If the company isn't doing it right, it's doing damage to its shareholder. Who are we going to sell anything to in Serbia if we establish those rules? Five million dinars to lose a day to block the railroad, and the Ministry or the Railways file a court case against local self-government. It's chaos. When we have such chaos in the country, then we cannot escape the fact that we must first face the causes of this chaos. We have to work more and less to lie to each other. What did the LDP want in this budget, and that's not there? First, an intergenerational agreement with those who cost this country a lot. It is not disputed that they have the right to such a thing, I mean pensioners, but if they cost half a billion euros last year more, that's almost half of the Corridor, what we've been making for 20 years, so if they cost half a billion euros more, then we expect them to meet their obligation, because each of us citizens in this society has some obligation, we expect them to support that policy that insists on development as the only precondition for pensions in 2010 and 2011. If now half the pension fund is filled with the budget, which is once again filled with our joint work, then how will it be in a year, two or three, when the number of pensioners is higher, and the inflow in the budget is lower for many reasons, primarily because of the fact that reforms are avoided here? We have proposed an amendment that we think you should accept, that pensions be reduced by 1% for every year they miss until full-time employment. Only 18, or 19% of pensioners met their full pension conditions, which is a full-time job. A large percentage of them went into retirement, but at 15-20 years of internship. Many of them retired because it was a political measure during the 1990s. We can't cheat on each other. These people today receive pensions from the budget and work at the same time and occupy jobs for young people who cannot be competitive, because their salary is higher for pensions that pensioners receive, and then they can work cheaper. How many pensioners like that are there? How many fake disability pensions do we have? Why don't we seduce the order here? You're looking for support for such a thing and you're going to get it, so let's seduce order at universities, see how we imagine Serbia in the future, what jobs that country needs to deal with, what knowledge it offers. We offer the most dysfunctional education to young people. What, then, will we develop in the future? Students have been protesting for days in Belgrade and are banalising their protest. He's reduced to their desire to enter a year without finishing the previous one, but "Bologna" isn't just a score, "Bolonja" means providing certain standards. We have Belgrade colleges, because one of the standards is that the book can't have more than 400 pages, then the teachers reduce the font, reduce the letter, so the 600-page book stops at 400, but you're reading with a shovel. Has anyone ever controlled the quality of studies in this country, and seen why our averages are so low, and then talked to those who are obliged to transfer knowledge in the best way? I'm asking you to cut pensions, percentages every year, and to allocate that money to improve the conditions of education, to define the country's educational strategy. Can you do that? Of course you can't. You can't do that, but it makes sense. What about the railroads, Mr. Grouchy? You're a minister, but you can influence those railways just like I do. Am I right? Milutin Mrkonjic, from the site: Partly. I'll answer you. Because it didn't belong to your party. And then we have a problem. Of 12 billion subsidies, 11.5 billion salaries. What's the average salary there? What do we get in return? The pay in the railroad must be minimal and limited. If Greece can fail, then the Serb railway, which has failed, is just as soon as no one has said, is traveling slower from Belgrade to Nis today than 150 years ago, when the railway was built. It took four hours and 30 minutes to travel, and now it travels for almost five hours. What are we paying for? Let us use those 12 billion for something more serious, and let us send these people and everyone in this country a message that it was past time that was possible to live by lying on the rail and waiting for someone else to give you money. Development, Mrs Dragutinovic, implies political assumptions. Subsidy, in itself, cannot be criticised. Any state facing a crisis is trying to find within the limits of its ability to support something. We invest in agriculture, but are we aware that our agrarian cannot develop without an industrial complex? Look at the state of our agricultural industry. She's first without her markets, she lost the market, and then she's technologically devastated and she's today a hostage to that legacy. One month's donation to the pension fund is our agrarian's annual donation. That's true. National investment plan, 2/3 Corridor, and 1/3 no one knows what. A political flea market, who made a promise to whom! Analysis, the effects of the NIP in the past few years. How many new jobs? What's productivity like? What's the use? How many tax charges? How much damage? We'll build apartments, thousands of apartments. That much can be made with the money that's being allocated. Every time we announce cheap apartments, and those who somehow survived the 2009 Chernobyl of Politics will be destroyed again, because just when they find someone to sell the apartment, then the news is that it will be 500 euros square, not 1,500 or 2,000, as far as Belgrade is concerned, and that's the end. The co-operation of monetary and fiscal policy – you have been in confrontation for a year. Your ministry is proposing an inflation budget rebalance at the end of last year, because it's the cost of the coalition, and then the governor Jelasic reacts, by raising the reference interest rate to artificially raise the value of the secure dinar... (President: 20 minutes. )......................................................................................................... One minute, I'm done. Then choke the economy, and then put down the interest rate for the purpose of the economy, and then jump the rate of the dinar. It's a vicious circle. I suggest you first political agreement, belt tightening and joint work. There is no government or opposition budget in Serbia, which wants to change because no country has gone through transition by waging mutual wars. To sink with you under the ice, we really can't. I mean, if you keep this up, I won't vote in the next election either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33554	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word. You have no basis for replication. National MP Vlajko Senic has a word. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33555	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected MPs, the 2010 budget debate is still taking place, I must say at the beginning, in a different context than it was in earlier years. I think the quality of the debate on Serbia's public finances has been raised and that this is the result of the fact that Serbia has for the first time a State Audit Institute Report. The fact is that the Finance Committee has managed to adopt one conclusion unanimously, regardless of the subsequent distorted interpretations of representatives of individual opposition parties, is also the fact that the Finance Committee is increasingly attended by representatives of opposition parties and those not in the Finance Committee. I think in this sense he feels one improvement for our society, because in a much more serious and responsible way, regardless of the quantity of the debate, he speaks in quality of our state budget. At the beginning, I would like to refer to one exhibit that was during the period when there was an opportunity for people with isolated opinions to speak about another demagogue and false interpretation of the Agreement that Serbia signed with the group "Fiyat", which has been going on for several months and which is being overrun by citizens of Serbia. To remind citizens, because it is their money, that it is an agreement that is a joint strategic investment between the Republic of Serbia and the "Fiyat" and that unlike the agreement when we sold NIS, it is all very clear and transparent and it is known how much it invests, in which way and in what time period. To simplify the whole thing, I will say that the agreement is based on a ratio of 67-33% between the "Fiat" and Serbia, that the state of Serbia, when the "Fiat" invests two euros, has an obligation to invest one euro, when the "Fiat" invests two euros in bank guarantees, Serbia has an obligation to invest one. The project is very important because our economy suffers from two basic problems: it is a question of a huge external trade deficit and an issue of unemployment. The opening of this project gives Serbia an opportunity to repair its external trade deficit, because 95% of this production is intended for export, and 5% for domestic markets, despite people who are directly employed in the factory, a number of people who will work under services and production, which is necessary for the industry to function. And, of course, those funds are foreseen in the 2010 budget, and of course those funds that were in the 2009 budget, which were not spent because the partner has not paid his share so far, have been transferred to loans, for example, for liquidity and for recovery. It is important to say that this is important because our structure of the social product is such that very little participation of exchangeable goods and that by opening this industry we will make this structure change, and open space for our exports to grow in the coming period, and I think that, in addition to public finance reform, it is one of the most important parts of the Serbian economy, that the fiscal system is sustainable. I believe there will also be false interpretations in the course of this discussion. I'll take every opportunity to deny it, of course, if I'm allowed. I also want to say something about the context in which the 2010 budget was adopted, that we all remember together that since the end of 2008 and during almost all this year there has been a global economic crisis, that the IMF, at least three times, has changed the projections of growth, that is, the global economy, and that it is perfectly normal for Serbia to change these projections during 2009, and that it is nothing unusual. I also want to remind you that, at the end of 2008, the Serbian government has reached an agreement with the IMF and thus made it possible for macroeconomic stability, which is the most important thing and the biggest challenge during the crisis, when there is a drastic decline in fiscal income and when the state, on the one hand, must have increased fiscal spending to compensate for the decline in aggregate demand due to lower exports, due to less personal consumption, and, on the other hand, to reduce its costs to reconcile the budget deficit. We do not live apart from the environment from the EU and to illustrate what it looks like in the environment, let me tell you what it is and what it is for example for Bulgaria, Hungary, Croatia, Romania, when it comes to the decline of the social product. There was 6.5% in Bulgaria, in Hungary 6.7% this year, in Croatia 5.2%, in Romania, which is an EU member 8.5%. In Serbia, the decline in social products will be 3%. The decline was only minor because the government reacted in time and allowed liquidity to pump in the economy and allowed some programmes that were ahead of the crash to continue to function. I think that this is the result which is worthy of respect and I think that, when we speak and when we criticise, we have to talk in a way and look at which and what the data is, how the countries around us function, that we don't go much further towards the EU, because unfortunately we are a few more years away from full membership. What I'm saying is that this arrangement with the IMF has enabled the Vienna Initiative and in some way made it possible for the private debt to survive, that our companies continue to function and thus enter the 2010 budget. Also, to say that it is based on a projection that our social product will grow by 1.5%, that Serbia's budget deficit will be 4%, and yet to say that in the EU, for example, growth in 2010, according to the projection of the last IMF, will be half a percentage point, that in Croatia it will be 0.3%, in Austria 0.8%, and to visit other pillars of our foreign policy, in Russia it will be 2.5%, in America 2.4%, in Hungary by 1%. So that's the context in which our economy works. It's a context in which we bring the 2010 budget and it's some kind of restriction against which we can't do a lot of things. What I'm saying is that this year's budget is brought to a completely different political environment. Thanks to our insistence, we have unilaterally started to apply the SAA and, I believe, as a result, we have received the defrosting of the Trade Agreement with the EU. Of course, it does not currently change the rules of the game, but strategically for our country, for our businessmen, for potential new foreign investors, it sends a clear message that for the first time as a state, we enter into a contractual relationship with the EU and that every foreign investor that is in Serbia today, anyone who is considering whether to come to Serbia, can count on the EU market being open to us, and 54% of our exports go there, 33% goes to CEFTA countries. Therefore, defrosting this agreement is an important message to determine the climate of a stable business in Serbia. I think that, in addition to being well explained by the government, almost two billion euros, we will save this approach because we have been free and in the past nine years, open a clear perspective that our exports are growing, and that is, I repeat, one of the more painful points of our economy. No one here mentioned, it is important to say that our deficit is 100 billion dinars, but that through the various tax reliefs that the government continues to affirm during this budget, which refers to, for example, the release of potential foreign investors on certain taxes, refers to the tax, for example, to the first apartment, the fact that a huge number of our products are taxed at a rate lower than the value added tax of 18%. We've been informed from the Ministry of Finance that 30%, I think, of such products, or less, will be told by the Minister exactly. It is almost 100 billion dinars of tax loss because we are running some kind of stimulating tax policy, i.e. this loss corresponds practically to the total amount of the budget deficit. What's not good in this budget is that it's going to fall tax on the profits of the company, but I expect it to be present and that in some future period we'll make it right. The economic policy that we need to preserve this budget and to allow economic growth is primarily the preservation of macroeconomic stability, and I will always advocate that fiscal and monetary policy be separated, that the NBS has full independence, that the course is something that will be formed depending on the relationship of supply and demand, because it is the only correction that can preserve us and prevent us from having increased consumption, as well as the only way that our public finances have one parameter that will not be possible to create from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that the time of control of the NBS and the course is far behind us and I believe that some new laws will strengthen the independence of the NBS. I think it is important to say that this time, in the structure of the Serbian budget, we have 4% of the capital expenditure, to gradually reduce the participation of expenditures on salaries and pensions. Quite slowly but the first effects in this structural participation are seen for the 2010 budget as well. Also, G17 Plus will insist on reforming the pension system because it is an unsustainable system that has to be almost 42-43% full of current revenues of the budget, because in the medium term it is an unsustainable system that practically costs more and more and more percentageally the budget of the Republic of Serbia from year to year. That's not a political question. It's not a question of relations in the ruling coalition. It is a question of our sincere message to our oldest citizens and our concerns, that the pension system is not something that will nominally be preserved as a right, and essentially, in real life, year by year, increasingly and more. Of course, this reform also involves the fact that some acquired rights will hardly be able to be retroactively extinguished, but in any case, it involves a broad discussion and a solution that we need. I say once again, this burden on the budget is something that is very much preventing us from freeing up a part of the resources and investing in economic development. There's been a lot of talk in the media and here today about our country's public debt. I also want to say that, one day, when we join the EU, we will have to meet the Mastricht criterion, that public debt cannot exceed 60% of the social product. For example, in 2000 it was 162% of the social product, and in 2009 about 32%, I couldn't exactly read from those charts, but it's approximately, and in 2012 it shouldn't have crossed 35%. The state where our country is when we talk about its debt is not dramatic and it is not alarming in the sense that it is a political story. The projection of fiscal policy by 2012 shows that the new government debt will be as much as I said, that it will not seriously burden our country. Of course, it is important that we invest in infrastructure or any other kind of economic activity that can be used and that will benefit Serbia. I think it is important to say that the growth of the social product in the next three years is limited to the average when you add in 2010, 2011, 2012, based on projections to 3.3%, which is much less than that of the growth we had until 2008, but it also opens up space for Serbia's growth model to change over the next few years. We won't be able to count on the growth of aggregate demand anymore. We will not be able to count on the fact that personal consumption will push the growth of our social product and therefore I am convinced that a new structure of our economy will allow us to strengthen exports as the only factor that can, within a relatively short period of time, affect our growth rates to be at a level that is necessary again to speed up the standard, which means 4, 5 or 6%. I want to look at two more things in the end, one report from the State Auditing Institution. As a member of the Finance Committee, I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia that we have adopted conclusions on the need to discuss the Report of the State Auditing Institution at the plenary table. That we have all come together to the conclusion that it is impossible to discuss this report before this debate on the 2010 budget ends, that we all supported such a conclusion together. That we will support the amendment of the Labour Act of the State Auditing Institution which will allow new people to be hired there, that they may have higher incomes, respecting the comment of the Auditor General, that is, his experience that people will not come to work at the State Auditing Institution for Salaries as much as they are today. We will insist that it be an independent institution, that it be expert, that its work be made public and free of any political pressures. But we will also expect the responsibility of the State Auditing Institution to be in line with the powers it has and to present to Serbian citizens from year to year accurate, clear, data without any interpretations and translation of these data into others, to say, descriptive facts, but to be a professional report to whom Serbian citizens will be able and to whom Serbian citizens will trust in the future. It is the interest of all of us, because in Serbia's public finances there is a huge responsibility and that responsibility must be personalised, not all can be equally guilty or all equally deserved for their spending. What was also part of the 2010 budget debate is issues on how we will be able to increase, as is said here, VAT revenues continue to account for almost 50% of budget revenues from value added tax. In this part, of course, import taxes, one is from the domestic market. We expect a cumulative 9.5% growth during this year, we believe that this growth is realistic, but we want to send a clear political message that there is no increase in value added tax in 2010, that there is no increase in profit tax, which is, except for Montenegro, where 9% is lowest in the region, there is no increase in salary tax and that it will not be in 2011, or in 2012, if this government pushes through the entire mandate and if our party is part of the ruling coalition. It's a message to the citizens of Serbia. It's a message to the businessmen. That's the message we're standing behind. That is why I can say that we will support the 2010 draft of this budget, with another belief that this time, both in the presentation of the budget and in its scope and in the resources shown, we will take one step that is significant, and I believe that in the future we will also have a lot more information and much better, especially in light of the expected adoption, whether the fiscal responsibility law or the new law on the budgetary system, which will clearly determine the time period of adoption of the budget, and possibly possible consequences, unless it is respected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33556	Before we continue our work, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 85, I am giving notice to Members of Parliament. Today, the break will be set, for an hour, between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. The reason for determining the break at 1600 hours is that up to 1600 is the work of the National Assembly session in direct transmission to RTS. After 17.00 hours, we will work on the basis of article 85 and we will extend the work and after 18.00 hours, by discussing the principle search point on the agenda, and the delayed transfer of our 17:00 session will begin at the RTS programme at 20.20 hours. I thank the MPs who had different assumptions. If you look at the total time available for discussion, since we're going to be at the hearing by word logs, I can't tell exactly how long we're going to be working, but I don't think it's going to be more than 20.00 hours, so it's with the reserve, for my personal assessment. I ask the MPs to keep all their statements at a time when they will be right to have a word. National MP Aleksandar Pejcic wants a replica of the presentation of MP Vlajko Senic. You have no right to a replica. National MP Milan J. Nikolic has a word, so the National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33557	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not think there is a significant legislative project that this Parliament brings to the budget project for a certain year over the course of one year. From how well we analyze our country's macroeconomic position, what movements were during this year, what movements are in the environment, what our situation is in our economy and what opportunities are, what we want to achieve in the coming year and in the coming years, what macroeconomic policy we will define and what instruments we will include, depends on how much and how we will live next year and future. We are at a very complex economic moment and any wrong decision can have far-reaching consequences. We are actually making a budget at the end of one year, which in the world has been burdened with many circumstances that, when the 2009 budget was not well-sighted, some of these circumstances could not be seen. This led to budget rebalances and deviations from the macroeconomic targets set. Had there been no more significant measures proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia during the year, it had adopted and realised the consequences of the global economic crisis would have been disastrous, the fall of the gross social product would have been far greater and all economic indicators, which are bad anyway, would have been far worse. We need to adopt the 2010 budget in conditions where we still don't have a clear picture of how much more of the crisis will last, whether it will deepen, though, judging by the indications in the largest economy, it will suffer. As far as our national economy is concerned, there is no sign of a weakening of the global economic crisis. For these reasons, the responsibility is greater to adopt a budget that will be realised in all positions, especially in the macroeconomic implementation of the policy. If we start with economic developments this year, we come up with data that the effects of the economic crisis have led to a drastic decrease in economic activity, foreign trade exchange has dropped, demand in the country has dropped, credit activity has been reduced and there has been a serious deterioration in the liquidity of the company. According to developments in the first nine months, there was a decline in gross social product by 4.1%), industrial production by 15%, processing industry by 19.4%, traffic in trade fell slightly by 18.2%, exports dropped by 23.4% and imports of goods by 31%. The net inflow of foreign investments has moved at a level of 1 billion euros. Thanks to measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in recent months, stagnation has been taking place and halting the decline of gross social product and external trade, so the estimates, it is already said, that by the end of the year we will reduce the gross social product from 4.1% to 3% decline, and that exports will also be at a decrease of 22%. For 2010, basic macroeconomic objectives were designed, I would say, ambitious, given the current economic moment, but not the unrealistic growth of the gross social product by 1.5%, the growth of personal consumption by 3.6%, the decline of state consumption by 7.2%, the growth of investment 4.7%, the growth of exports by 6.2%, inflation would move at around 6% and imports by 4.8%. No further drop in employment is projected. In addition to the quantifiable objectives, it is planned to maintain macroeconomic and financial stability in times of crisis, through the recovery of economy and the creation of conditions for the return of sustainable real rates, the continuation of the process of European integration and the implementation of structural reform, in particular public sector reform. It is understood that all of this must be achieved under the conditions of the economic crisis, which, as it weakens, will be in the coming year and which is the main limiting factor for the realisation of these objectives. It is crucial to keep watchful monitoring of movements in the global environment in the economy and timely adaptation in order to preserve macroeconomic and financial stability. Permanent and essential coordination of all factors in the creation and implementation of monetary and fiscal policy is necessary. It is important to continue the ongoing reforms in the public sector consistently, particularly in the organisation of state administration, health care, pension system and education. This consistent implementation of reforms will certainly allow for a reduction of expenditure from the budget, and funds will be provided to increase the amount of capital investment, in particular the allocation of infrastructure. Very concrete measures are needed to reduce public spending and implement savings among all budget users, which would best control inflationary movements and realise macroeconomic objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, according to both business and fiscal years 2010, there is much to be seen as crucial to Serbia's national economy. First, it is necessary to end the privatisation process, and to use the privatisation funds to develop investment and projects that have a market opportunity. This country needs a job, it has to be done everything to reduce the unemployment rate. I think that employment would especially address many other problems that burden the country's economy, especially in improving the existential standard of people, filling budgets and early realisation of macroeconomic policy. The burning problem of unbalanced regional development must be addressed by developing investments in undeveloped regions. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement must be implemented as soon as possible to speed up development through the means of access. Infrastructure projects must be started, as the especially road infrastructure is a business prerequisite for the country's development and conditions for the introduction of foreign capital are created. It can be concluded from the macroeconomic framework attached to us in the budget Memorandum, with this draft budget, as well as the results achieved by macroeconomic and fiscal results in 2009, that all user requests and all proposals could not be met with this budget spending schedule. Nor can it be denied that the government has made an effort to implement the planned economic policy in these documents through planning, namely the implementation of this 2010 draft budget, which stands before us today. I understand that it was neither easy nor simple to allocate a certain amount of funds to finance the functions of the state, its obligations and the activities of its bodies in this situation, by managing the main economic indicators on the overall economic power of the state, including the population. The second, not less important segment, is an economic expert analysis that required all needs to be considered, i.e. more precisely the legal obligations of Serbia that existed and have not been met in previous years, as well as the new commitments of the state to be financed from the budget during 2010, for which the budget is proposed. In doing so, the planned total amount of funds should be allocated in the best possible way and met to a good extent the request of all budgetary users. In this situation, I refer to the part which I am particularly interested in as a representative of the economy, which is the government's definition that, even in such limited resources of the budget that remain, after meeting the basic classical functions of the state, I am primarily referring to the salaries of employees and other relevant material and basic costs associated with the work of the state authorities, the budget is proposed within the parameters of the established tax policy without increasing tax rates, which seems to me to be a significant contribution at the moment. The second segment, in my opinion important, is that there are also limited circumstances and places for incentives and other purposes in the economy, this especially because I think that this is the best way to use money from the budget, because it provides multiple benefits, which in terms of increasing production, making employment, and finally also through taxes and other taxes, that money is still best returned to the budget. To be honest, like last year, I had a chill this year, before I saw the budget, that the government would raise the VAT rate to meet the demands of budgetary users and the security of all proposals submitted for funding. It is a good sign for me that without increasing the rate of the main tax forms, above all I mean the VAT rate, the government has managed to draw up a budget that, in the given conditions, I believe, represents reality in the government's budgetary and economic policy for 2010. This suggests that the government is determined to run a solid economic and fiscal policy in 2010. I suppose the government had in mind that in 2010 in the implementation of this budget, it will have to keep on the watch over all the particularly priority projects and expenditures of the budget, and will be managed accordingly in the policy of implementing budget expenditure, which, in my court, will not be an easy and simple task, given the circumstances in which the country will operate in the overall economy, especially in the context of the global crisis, which will certainly reflect the overall economic environment in which it will have to operate in the coming year. Therefore, the economy has a very difficult task to maintain the existing level of production and, however possible, to increase its scope and quality, to reconcile obligations towards the state, partners and employees, and that the government will lead a firm economic and fiscal policy as is presented in the draft budget. I honestly believe that the Government will specifically define the funding for subsidies through legal projects so that it can see how much of these funds the economy will be able to account for, because it's a respectable aid that was in the course of this year, it's number one. Number two, I think that during this year, despite the necessary independence of the NBS, economic policy and monetary policy, I would say the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS must be a nail and meat so that they can synchronisedly make decisions necessary for the full implementation of the set budget. The SPS and JS parliamentary groups will support this bill's proposal in the belief that, with the full implementation of the macroeconomic policy objectives set and the realisation of the budget, they will create a platform for serious development of the country's economy in the coming years, 2011 and 2012. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33558	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33559	Thank you. This year, I am particularly pleased to begin the story of the 2010 draft budget law, and the reason for this is the following: we can share the story of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia in the period until 1998, when we had the Social Accounting Service as one of the most comprehensive services in which all financial flows were possible to see, control, monitor, monitor and establish an economic policy of this country, and for the period from 1998 to 2009, when absolutely there was no, or even no rights, revision of final accounts, in the sense that any objective, professional and impartial body could control it. I've heard you mention the audits of the city budget and one revision, here, the final account. This cannot be treated by the audit of consulting houses, which, it is known long ago, for the great money you pay them, write down what the client requires. We have the opportunity to see such audit reports, for many companies, businesses, which, for example, six months in advance, are filled with business press columns, which talk about business, as the most successful businessmen, to find themselves on the other side of the lock after six months, and for them are investigated procedures, etc. Even, for example, the last case, the Metals Bank, which was on all the front pages of 'Bankar' up until six months ago, I don't know which magazines yet, was co-operated by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and then it turned out that the bank was in dubiosis, etc. Serbia's public finances period since 27 November this year has been moving forward. The most serious proposal, which I want to take into consideration those who care about this country, is that Mr. Sretenovic and his co-workers are being provided with income, which is not known to any other official, citizen of Serbia, therefore, so high that they can maintain the level of objectivity shown in the report that we have received, the level of expertise and objectivity. For the first time, I've asked for something from the president of this country. I'd like to ask Mr. Tadic to assign to these people some of the highest-ranking medals for the report we've received. Also, I apologize to the public for giving my time to the wrong person a commendation for showing what unidentified own incomes, about which the state and citizens have no idea. For my courage, I commended the present Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, who, however, had a considerable problem because of that statement, but it was not a statement we first heard from her. That statement was already contained in the Auditor's Report, documented data, except we as the public didn't have a chance to hear it, because it was the moment that this report from the Draft grew into the Report and was at the time of his confirmation in the Government. The budget story in this year must begin with the 2008 Final Account Report, where on the seventh page, the State Audit Institution finds that the "main Book" of the Treasury, which is the basic book in which income and expenditure is kept, does not contain revenue and expenditure from other sources of indirect beneficiaries of the budget. On the 8th page, it says that the Final Account Draft does not contain revenue and expenditure from other sources of indirect beneficiaries of the budget funds because data from the'main book' of the Treasury is downloaded, and these revenues and expenditures are not taken over. On that same side, in point 4) it is said that "the closing list", they know what it is, but not the bookkeepers who are being accused, but who are making, that the data on the unmistakable commitments, about the given and the unwarranted advances, etc. do not register in accordance with the Standard Classification Framework Regulation and the Final Plan for the Budgetary System, which is for you in the Ministry of Finance of the Constitution, books on books. What the State Auditing Institution told us was this: I am not wasting my time reading the Report, I will translate it into language understood to all – indirect budget users that the Government has made possible by law, there are 46, plus the Constitution, three regulations and one regulation, in order to charge for various types of services on behalf of the State, according to the regulations that this state, this government, in this Parliament, has brought, mostly, to its majority. But by charging these indirect users -- do you know how much they show in the government and the budget? Only as much as they can document bills on the spending of those rights they have earned. This means that in the'main book' of the Treasury, which is not managed according to the member team and team, there are no changes, i.e. not all incomes and expenditures, but only spending. Can a Serbian citizen pay that annual income tax, which has been set at some level, a million and 200 or 300 a year, say – sorry, I can't pay you a income tax of over a million and 300, I will pay you only for what I haven't justified for your expenses? Does a citizen have a right to that? On what grounds do you have the right to just point out? You said there's a billion and 300 of those incomes. I'm saying there's more of them. It's not just indirect and direct users who show you only those incomes that can justify spending, and the difference, or surplus, you can't see or cover anywhere. What are the citizens doing? Why do we not have a report on this, or have we not established an opportunity for citizens to monitor what they pay for in health institutions? No, because you wanted to leave, not personally, you as a state, a system unregulated, so that in the incomparability of the data and inability to follow these parameters you could do what no one could directly accuse you of being abused. Unfortunately, this accusation exists today and is contained in this report. What else is interesting? The revenue from the original activities of indirect users is not complete, please note, page 8 of point 5) says – the revenue from the original activities of indirect users is not complete and is shown only at the height of their expenditures. So they don't show everything they've earned, they show you, just what they've spent. It's a translation I owed the citizens. One of the conclusions that worries, at the moment we are making the budget, is that the data in the'shares' that make up the final account, because today we are talking about the plan, this is a problem for us – what from this plan is really going to be spending, and I will say what is the biggest problem for this budget, are not comprehensive, accurate and mutually comparable, because they do not contain all the states and changes in assets, claims, obligations, sources of funding, expenditure, expenditure, income and income. Mr. Prime Minister can promise to be in the future, but for what was the starting point, an account needs to be made. What's the problem? The finance ministry, for example, was first assigned to have internal audit and internal control in its body. And control and review. Internal control should enable, on purpose for citizens, a number of things to be cited from the report itself, therefore, to ensure the application of the law, to safeguard funds and to invest from losses, including fraud, irregularities and corruption, integrity and reliability of information and data, and that a direct or indirect user is responsible for this, means, for keeping funds, for the reliability of information, but even from error, is responsible, not an accountant, who you generously promise to send to training. This is the law, I don't read the newspaper text! Furthermore, you, all the beneficiaries of the budget funds, primarily the ministry, must have internal control, because whenever the audit comes, which has been established by law, according to the international standard of the ISO 315 revision, in order for the auditor to understand, that we do not justify ourselves by accounting errors, so that we say – no one has stolen the money, just not in the safe, but is placed in the other room, you want to say, and that is not true, so when he comes, that he can understand the legal person at which he is in control, he should have a report of that internal control, and so that he can assess the risk of having a material error in financial business, which can be a consequence or intentional error or crime. This is standard, audit standard. The internal control has established four or five ministries, only two out of 25 controlled, have also a report on the internal control, which was meant to ensure that there was no misunderstanding, or no justification by mistake, because it was all eliminated in control. In the Ministry of Finance, I warn long and persistently, there is no Public Debt Administration, in fact the problems are even bigger, and we couldn't find out about them, which is that they weren't formed, and the systematicisation is envisaged, the Department of Standards and Internal Financial Control of Budget Implementation. Why is that a problem? Because it is established that payment orders are given without the right accompanying documentation that must be based on the law and that is the only basis for payment. That's what it says on page 12, because taking commitments has to mean having complete documentation. What do you ask of citizens for the simplest information or proof that we exist, that we are alive?- I'm sorry. We've got a hundred times to get one of those same documents out. We always have to prove that we are employed or that we are unemployed, that our children are regular students when they exercise the least right, and you can have all the procedures prescribed, that you are invoking laws, but you don't have to apply them. Just one more detail from this report. I don't care about individual ministries, I deal with principled and systemic matters, I don't care about any name individually, it's the problem of citizens and they'll appreciate it. Based on what this control showed, the 2008 revision, it was concluded that the internal audit, which was the Ministry of Finance's obligation, was not established, from 18 to 11 ministries, was in seven, and the report was made only at five. You don't have people, or do you have extra employees, or do you need to get units of those 2224? What's the matter? On the basis of these data collected, the internal audit is not properly organised, and it should allow for consistent application of the law and compliance with the internal control rules, as well as the achievement of other objectives which, in accordance with the law, establish itself. We're all witnesses. We've already changed the law here twice to prevent money laundering. Do you remember that every exchange office, every lawyer, you have established the obligation to record, report and report any suspicious transactions, faces, origins, ID cards, etc? You have a legal obligation, it was established in 2007, that this internal audit and control function and work, to provide citizens with information on spending. You do not have to – because there is no sanction, and the report of the State Auditor for you is, above all, a public sanction with the disclosure itself. What concerns me the most is, despite the existence of this report, I will not even enter into formalities, the relationship with regulatory bodies, the lack of formal conditions to discuss it, you cannot forbid me and anyone to discuss this, which you have not at any time referred to in the making of a new budget to the underlying remarks that exist in this report. In the list of these 46 laws, plus the Constitution, in which there are three regulations, one regulation, there is no law in which the government, on behalf of the State, could give loans to various private legal entities, companies, public enterprises, organisations that, without any criteria or law, can either write off, if it wants to restructure, or'suspend the bride', to sell to someone who is writing off debts that go on the burden of all of us, and by selling a clean enterprise, or to convert it into a equity stake of those loans. Where is the right of one man or twenty people in the government to go past the Law on Privatisation, past the Law on Public Enterprises, past the Law on Public Debt, past all the agreements we've been in charge of, you're giving budget money to someone, we don't know why, we don't know by what criteria, criteria, we don't know what the effects are, and then you decide at some point to write off that or convert into a stake. I personally advocate a greater role of the state in this society, because the state must not withdraw out of responsibility for social peace, primarily out of responsibility for taking care of employment, but we have never received a report, Mrs Dragutinovic, for that member of the law, which was already contained in the Budget Law, which you were entitled to from this Assembly to lend loans, and then you are taking notes. If you had delivered a new budget and said at least once -- there's a strategic enterprise in one part of Serbia where everyone lives on it, you're losing it, but we have to finance it? No, it's enough to get permission to do what you're not going to account for! This new budget is the highlight of this type of request for approval that you have more power than an organ that approves that power. You ask the Assembly, Article 10, that if, therefore, the budget is not filled with sufficiently planned dynamics and if all the measures you take to charge the budget fail, that is, to the extreme of Article 61, which defines that there is no overrun of funds between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, even if you would do so and you would do so if this were to vote 126, you would remove the division of three branches of government by denying financing any of these three branches and asking that (I am reading Article 10(3)) in the event that budget receipts are not made in the planned dynamics, in addition to Article 62, and exclusively from Article 61-'''The Government shall decide that the amount of application which cannot be used shall be entered into the current budget reserve and may be used for purposes which are not provided for by this law... ''Trust me that I didn't believe it was possible for a document to write something like this – you're asking for the right to distribute funds beyond the law. Before you tell me that time has elapsed, 134 billion VAT revenues in the country is a poorly designed figure or a included VAT increase, which I will explain in the debate when we start individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33560	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33561	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, once a critic spoke of works of art – how well the work of art has a thousand disadvantages and virtues, and can boast and dispute in many ways, while the bad work of art has only one flaw – which exists at all. So the problem with a budget like this is that it even exists and the most honest thing would be to pull it out of the process. But if I have to talk about such a bad deed as this budget, I'll remind you that Prime Minister Cvetkovic, saying that what is ahead of us is the development budget. There I would agree with the prime minister, it is true, this budget is according to our Prime Minister Cvetkovic, a developmental one. But there is only one small problem that the budget is not developmental for the economy of Serbia and for ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this budget is only developed for the state administration. Such a budget develops and raises administrations and those who live on the coat of arms of hungry people, and you destroy Serbia's economy with this budget. This budget, therefore, is not developmental. He's destructive! The government's practice is that every budget it proposes is qualified as a door to the garden of some future economic well-being of Serbia. Also, every doctor who doesn't have a cure seeks to create any false hope of healing. What does anyone who knows about finance have in front of their eyes when they hear about a development plan? He immediately thinks about investments, new jobs, new products, increased exports. However, there is no such thing in this budget. In order for this budget to be developmental, not destructive, there would be no following: growth in the budget from 70 to 107 billion dinars, increasing the share of civil servants' salaries to 63% of the budget, the cost of 35 billion dinar interest, the allocation for the famous "Fiat" of 150m euros, the return of the debt of 292 billion dinars and various wastes in the form of so-called "Fiyat" of the so-called "Fiat" of 150m euros. services under contract of specialised services, and agencies with ungrowing budget. You call us pessimists because of the grudges we put on this budget. As irreparable optimists, I want to remind you that pessimists are actually optimistic with experience. We know that this budget does not result in any development, but rather the destruction of the Serbian economy. We're already used to the government giving, too, beautiful names to every new budget. You called the previous budget - restrictive, so it increased the deficit, debts and burdens for the economy, as well as for the citizens. The budget was supposed to be restrictive because you installed frozen salaries, pensions and a ban on employment in the state administration. You've decided to save on the standard of civil servants and pensions. You forgot to save, on furniture purchases for new cabinets, on new cars, official travels, etc. If you were some thrifty government, you'd be saving on yourself first. You would have abolished unnecessary ministries, agencies and commissions. You'd reduce the number of advisors, the secretary of state, and the assistant. You can't ask for other people's reforms without changing anything in your own backyard at the same time. Now everyone already knows that this is the biggest government in Europe, and among the three largest in the world. That's not her biggest flaw. The biggest flaw is that she's incompetent. What would happen if the Ministry of National Investments were abolished? What would happen if the Ministry of Culture, Faith, the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of Minority Rights joined together? What would happen if the Department of Trade joined up with the Ministry of Economy and finally connected the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Science? Nothing would have happened, but it would have saved a lot. We'd have six ministers less, about 30 advisors less, as well as hundreds of officers in the cabinets less. This is how we have an army of ministers, and the benefit is small. Savings would be measured by billions of dinars. If you had put a little effort into public administration and rationalizing it, it would have certainly been in your eyes that the decentralisation Office in this budget is increasing costs to 24 billion dinars. What else is decentralisationd on their advice to make it work so much? You said this budget reduces public spending. What is this reduction in public spending, when the 719 budget rose to 762 billion dinars? It's a wasteful budget, not a thrifty budget! In the budget is an increasing share of the salaries of civil servants, 182 billion dinars, and pensions – 215 billion dinars, which is good for these citizens, but you can't show it as a development. That's what people have earned. No rhetorical or theoretical figures can from the lack of 107 billion dinars to form a basis for Serbia's development. Yes, but if that deficit is invested in roads, agriculture, industry and exports. In this way, this deficit will show its devastating fact. The government is trying to see the 107 billion missing budget as a developmental one, although the deficit has increased by 37 billion, compared to this year 2009. For those of us who deal with the real economy, that is 400m euros more burden on agriculture and citizens, which will be financed from the loan. Let me just point out that these loans also have their own interest, so it costs us another 10% on the annual level. And We could accept it, if We knew what we were in debt for. Is there something going on with those couples? Is there a factory up there? Will someone get a job? If that money were used to the economy, we could accept it, and then our kids would pay more taxes than we do, and otherwise we'd pay too much. Since this is Serbia today, in 2009, we as a state have no more important goals than preserving domestic economy, preserving jobs in Serbia and protecting citizens' standards in Serbia. That's not in this budget. If there were a development programme and this budget was developmental, it would not have happened that subsidies are economies of 3.5 billion dinars or that I translate – 0.5% of the budget. The subsidies should be 20 times higher for the economy and 10%. When you read the information that the allocations for contracts in this budget are worth 4.8 billion dinars and that subsidies are 3.5 billion dinars, then you realize how much attention is given to growing economic activities in Serbia and the competitiveness of our economy. That investments have increased by these 37 billion dinars, so we understand the increase in deficits as the price of some accelerated development. Unfortunately, it's not like that. You've increased the deficit by 400m euros, and you're only giving out 400m euros in investments by 60 million euros. It doesn't have 60 billion corridors, onions, etc. The previous government signed a concession contract for the construction of the "Horgosh-Pozega" highway. You broke it up, and now you're looking for loans around the world for the same routes to start building. Then you claimed that maybe that highway wasn't necessary, and now it's a priority. If there was any real plan for this country's economy, it would be much better, because even a bad plan can be fixed, but if there's no plan, then there's no progress. I just have to remind you that the planned deficit for 2008, when this government was elected, was 14.8 billion dinars, and now 107 billion, six times less in a year and a half of this government. Six-and-a-half times the shortfall! The director who at the end of the year leads to 15% of the losses is removed. If the budget is the primary financial responsibility of this government, then this government deserves to be replaced. The subsidies for the economy rose from 3 to 3 billion dinars. Can someone tell me where development is? Agricultural subsidies up to 18 billion dinars were proposed, as they were in the year when corn was 16, and grain was 18 dinars. At that time, the subsidy level was something, but today, when the price of cereals and corn is 9 dinars, when the raspberries cost 80 dinars, and the plum of 10 dinars, the increase of subsidies to the level of two years ago is offensive to peasants. There's no agricultural development here. The projected deficit in the coming year is well due to the steady growth of government debt abroad and domestic banks, so it turns out that businesses and Serbian citizens are working today to pay interest. The amount of interest to be paid from the budget in the following year has reached 350m euros, almost three times more than it was in the 2008 budget. Covering the missing is planned from sources that are increasingly leading us into debt dependence, and some would say – in debt slavery. The interest has eaten more than 30km of highways through Vojvodina. I have to add that the deficit you've shown in the budget would be even greater if it wasn't built into unrealistic optimism. During the 2009 budget debate, I was saying that you overestimated VAT revenues because you then predicted that it would amount to 338 billion dinars. In the end, you admitted it in the rebalancing because that income was reduced to 302 billion dinars, exactly by 10%, as we were saying. Now again on the basis of unrealistic expectations, you have estimated that VAT growth on domestic products will be over 30%, i.e. from 101 to 134 billion dinars. In Serbia, at such a rate, no public income has ever increased, so we don't believe this one either. The only thing that has grown at this rate in this budget is the growth of the number of skiers on the Old Mountain. It is truly amazing that you have justified investment in the 938m dinar Old Mountain project, the Public Business of Serbia, 901 million dinars, a total of around 20m euros, by the triple growth of the number of skiers on the Old Mountain, according to the bill. In addition to so many of the problems that this country today has, the economy of the Republic of Serbia, the government is developing ski resorts on the Old Mountain. The biggest budget disappointment for us is the waste for the government's famous project with the "Fiyat". To be clear, Fiat is, like all other foreign investors, always welcome to our country. Always! However, Fiat did not come to privatise the flag, the Fiat did not come to become its strategic partner or "Fiat" did not come to realize the Greenfield investment -- the Fiat came because citizens of the Republic of Serbia would pay the price of its arrival. This is clearly seen in the proposal for this, as well as in previous budgets. I must remind you of statements from various ministers that the value of the Fiat contract will amount to a billion euros, that Fijat will immediately give us 700m euros, that it plans to produce 200,000 cars annually, A or B-class, exports of over a billion euros in 2011. Employment is a special enigma. Since the initial announcements that tens of thousands of people will be employed, we now see that 1,400 more will be fired. Let's take it in a row. The Republic of Serbia is giving 150m euros in our money for a founding stake in a joint venture with the "Fiyat". We recall that Fiat has not yet fulfilled its commitment to establishing a 200m-euro joint venture. "Fiat" is a year and a half late with this payment and you tolerate it. Believe it or not, I'm moving on, the new budget provides for the Republic of Serbia to issue guarantees, I repeat, the Republic of Serbia is issuing guarantees of about 100m euros to take over Fiat from the company for the purchase of equipment. This is outrageous! The Republic of Serbia provides a guarantee to the Fiat for the purchase of equipment! Let's move on. The state continues to give more than 2m euros a month for the flag subsidies, although they are working on the production of Fiat's cars, it's a Fiat's car, it's amazing that the state is giving money to pay in a foreign company. Fourthly, I would call this the highlight of rudeness, because the 2010 budget envisions (quote) 'two million euros', you will not believe 'to pay for the advisory services 'Fiatou' – Cars Serbia! ''According to Section 17, in the context of economic affairs, secondly unclassified, on the economic classification of 423 - Contracted Services, 195m dinars or 2m euros are foreseen for advisors in the project with the "Fiitat". It shows here that someone was trying to hide it. So, it's not enough that we're paying for all this, but we should pay two million euros to some management board consultant in which Fiat has 70% of the majority. That really, really normal man can't understand. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi does not give money to the company "Fiat" in the Italian budget, but therefore Serbian Prime Minister Cvetkovic gives "Fiat" money in the Serbian budget. We would like these to encourage the government to "FAP" from Priboj, "Cruise", "Magnochroma", "First Five-year-olds", thousands, tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies are bearers of development and employment in Serbia. It seems that the government only encourages those companies that were part of their pre-election promises. Madam Chairman, I will use, if I fail, the time of the parliamentary group. It is much more important today than subsidies for farmers that farmers have fair prices and loyal competition. In the end, since my time is limited, I will conclude, and I will speak later in detail, that the shortcomings of the budget proposal, which you have submitted, can be spoken almost indefinitely, but the question is how much does it make sense. It is now quite clear that this budget is not a developmental one but is destructive and there are no new jobs for it, there are no investments and it will not protect the Serbian economy and the standard of citizens. That is why this draft budget must be withdrawn from the procedure, and the government that prepared this draft budget needs to be changed urgently because it has once again proven its incompetence. The changes that are necessary are so important that it is impossible to make them without new choices, and that is why I suggest you withdraw the draft budget, resign and call elections, that you no longer torture yourself or this troubled economy and citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33562	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? National MP Vlajko Senic has been reported with a desire for replication. I understand, since you announced, but you have no right to a replica. National MP Nenad Popovic gave his version of the exhibition when it comes to the 'Fijat'. There will be time to exchange real information during the debate in the work when MPs speak. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 2010 will be the third year of the global economic crisis. For the citizens of Serbia – the year of crisis is far more than three years away, but the fact is that the last few years have reached the limit of endurance. In this state, we now have a draft budget that is likely to be as proposed and adopted, because most of the 126 can do anything. And this time the state planned to spend more than it could make, so the total deficit will be 107 billion dinars. Just to remind, with the 2009 budget proposal, the planned deficit amount was 49.9 billion dinars, to increase the rebalance to 70.5 billion in April. Now the planned amount is 107 billion. And this time, credit will be taken to cover that greater expenditure than income, which has already become a practice and it goes on forever, so we are increasingly in charge, the state securities will be broadcast from value, and it will be counted on a certain amount of donations, as well as on untapped assets from previous years. I will ask, later, the Minister to explain to us what the neutral means are, because in recent years, we have had opportunities to hear announcements that a budget rebalance will be made for 2009. Will there be only minor redistributions, as you said, within certain items of budgetary expenditure, or might there still be new borrowings? When we look at the planned revenues for 2010, we see that the biggest revenues are planned to be tax revenues, and within them are the most significant revenues from value added tax. In order for this revenue to be achieved, more economic activity and greater purchasing power of the population are needed, and neither of them is certain to be in 2010. On the contrary, the situation is getting worse. A higher excise income than last year was planned for 14,200,000, which will also be difficult to implement, if we take into account the living standard of the population. As far as expenditure is concerned, I must point out that it is really good to have a higher amount of subsidies in agriculture compared to 2009, although the position of the SRS was to allocate more funds for this purpose. Also, our position is that there is insufficient amount for economic subsidies. For this purpose, 3.5 billion dinars are foreseen, which means 74 million less than this year. If the Prime Minister for the draft budget law says it is developmental, does this not mean that, besides building infrastructure facilities, more security and more jobs are needed? With so many planned subsidies in the economy hard! Much has been said that this draft budget law has been made clearer and more transparent than previous budgets and the SRS welcomes such intentions. However, it has become clear to all of us long ago that when people of Serbia speak out loudly about the transparency of something, they can rightly expect the government to conceal something and that it is mainly a major irregularity. In a very cunning way, the draft budget law shows the existence of public agencies and some other authorities and how they spend money. Some agencies are properly presented. This is the case with the Agency for Mine Action, the Energy Efficiency Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Republic Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution, the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Environmental Protection Fund and others. These authorities, although parallel to official state authorities, have their place in the draft budget law, are shown in certain sections as budget users. The functions and economic classifications show all that is important for one budget user: salaries, allowances, employee benefits, social contributions to the employer's burden, fixed costs, travel costs, contract service, material and all other necessary items. However, some have tried to be cunning by identifying funds for the work of agencies and other bodies on certain economic classifications. For example, at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, on page 98, in the draft Budget Law, function 410, economic classification 424 - Specialized Services, it says in the explanation – the funds of this 250 million dinar appraisal are intended for the Privatisation Agency. The funds amounting to 17,760,000 dinars are intended for the accreditation body. For the same ministry, page 102, function 474, economic classification 424 - Specialized services, the explanation is – the resources of this 320 million adjunction are intended for the financing of the National Regional Development Agency and other specialised services. It doesn't even say what the amount is intended for the National Regional Development Agency, which for other specialised services. At the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, on page 116, division 23, function 560, economic classification 451 - Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, the following is written in the explanation – the assets of this appraisal amounting to 153 million dinars are intended to finance the Nature Protection Agency, the funds of 65 million dinars for the Chemical Agency and, in the amount of 25 million dinars, are intended to finance the Agency for the Protection of INS and Nuclear Security. On page 117, function 620, economic classification 451 - Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, there is an explanation – the means of this appraisal are intended for the Republic of Spatial Planning Agency. It's about the amount of 169,950,000 dinars. So one ministry provided the agencies with funding through specialized services and another through subsidies. It is not surprising, then, that the State Auditor's remarks in the 2008 Financial Audit Report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the most relevant abuses of specialised services, are. We had the opportunity to get to know how many public agency consumers were and how much they paid their directors in February this year, and up to 355,000 dinars, that data was published on the official government website. We've talked about it more than once, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now, because of the time, if I were to say it all over again. How many hypocrites characterise this power is best seen in the case of the dismissal of employees in the state administration, and also in the local one. Despite the opposition's warning that this is not working at the moment of the economic crisis, when those who remain jobless cannot work elsewhere, representatives of the authorities voted yesterday for a law that will leave a large number of people out of work, all in order to increase the efficiency of the state administration and reduce public spending. And how does the 2010 Budget Law make this look? Is this really how public spending is reduced? Of course it's not getting smaller. Authorities said the positive effects of this measure on the budget would be seen only next year, as this year those who remain jobless will be paid severance payments. But how do things really stand? The 2009 budget rebalance provides expenditure on employees totalling 180,690,424,000 dinars. The 2010 budget law envisions 182,515,844,000 dinars, which means 1,825,420,000 dinars higher in 2010. In public you said that this amount contained the amount of severance for those who would lose their jobs. On 8 December, Minister Dinkic said, and this has been transmitted by the media, that the 2010 budget funds, which are apparently planned for more public sector employees than this year, are, in fact, the money to pay the severance payments in the process of rationalisation. Answering the question – whether the 2010 budget envisioned the allocations for more employees than this year, Mr Dinkic said he also asked Mrs. Minister for this and that he had received such an explanation. Now I want to refer the question to the Minister of Finance – what is the truth, because we have the next situation? In section 61, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, function 110 - economic classification 414, is foreseen 110,000,000 for social contributions to employees i.e. for civil servants' severances. This is the only place where the funds are provided for this purpose and it's about 110 million dinars. And I have already said that the expenditures for employees are projected in 2010 to be more than 1,825,420,000 of the funds shown in the 2009 rebalance, which was made in April. Now we have to make a parallel between 110 million and 1,825,420,000, and I would ask the minister to define what amount is planned for the severances of those who will be fired? And in order to make it even clearer for the citizens of Serbia, who understand what is behind these layoffs, I will read the data from the table relating to the number of perpetrators for whom payment funds are provided. Otherwise, this table is an integral part of the draft budget law, which means it's official data. In the 2009 budget rebalance, 261,316 people are scheduled to be paid in the budget, while the total number of executioners in 2010 – 266,699, which means that there are now 5,383 more people in just one year. Here is an explanation from the government of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, which was transferred by the media (quote): 'As explained in the 2010 budget, the funds for increasing the number of executives in individual budgetary authorities are provided by the acquisition of a number of executives from relevant institutions, based on new competences defined by certain legal acts, and in order to strengthen the human resources of individual authorities, which would also contribute to better supervision of the work of state authorities. It is about competences arising from the European integration process. In fact, the government remains on the point that, when it comes to state administration, it will go towards reducing the number of civil servants, but that they are excluded from firing and banning new employment sectors that meet the obligations of intensive activities in line with the process of Eurointegration. '"The end of the quote. ) The easiest thing to say is, 'It has to be 'cause of European integration', and then anything is possible, everything is allowed. And, on the other hand, empty stories about reducing public consumption and these stories keep repeating themselves. The government probably thinks that if he keeps talking about it, he's going to convince the citizens that it's true, and he keeps saying that he's going to convince himself that it's true. It is a very interesting way for the government to make savings, firstly by firing employees, which I was just talking about, further, with the draft budget law on the agenda of this session, are also following the proposals and laws to supplement the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and Amendments and the Supplements of the Financial Support Act to the Family with Children. The decision has fallen to save on those who have the least; when I say so, I don't mean the small number of pensioners who have pensions of which normal people, indeed, revolve in their heads. I'm talking about pensioners whose pensions insult human dignity. About 1,600,000 pensioners in Serbia receive an average pension, about 930,000 pensioners have some 20,000 dinars, while more than 500 have pensions below 13,000 dinars. And these people are now facing the fact that, as in 2009, and in 2010, there will be no increase in pensions. That is the condition of the IMF and there is no derogation from that. Stories about the future standards of pensioners in Serbia – that in a few years they will be similar to that of pensioners in Slovenia, and then to the standard of pensioners in Denmark, they have no basis in Serbian reality, moreover, and stories irritate the vast majority of pensioners in Serbia who are forced to support their wider family members, more specifically, grandchildren, to train them, because their parents are not in a position to work, so that they can provide their family with the existence. Not to mention that the retirement age is followed by major health problems and how much money they need for treatment and medication. To many families, pension is the only income, and they have to pay the current household expenses, and they keep collecting and they have to pay, because the state is asking for it – if you're going to use something, you have to pay. We also heard announcements that during the next year, electricity will collect, probably on two occasions, not to mention the prices of food that changes almost daily in stores. It is unfortunate that the largest number of this population in Serbia is characterized by the denial of the minority of everything. These are people who have completed their working life, who have been paying contributions to the pension- invalidity fund, and now, instead of decent pensions, they receive churches for humiliation. I mentioned the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance. I must point out that the transfer from the budget to this fund in 2010 amounts to 215 billion dinars, and that the situation in the economy is what it should be, and it is not, this fund would be filled with the funds that employees pay the Fund and the budget would be much less needed for this purpose, so the funds could be channelled to other purposes. Otherwise, the transfer from the Republic's budget participates with 45.6% in the total revenues and incomes of the Fund. In this way, the Republic Pension-Inhabitation Fund, the National Employment Service, represents large budget beneficiaries. Another way to save money in the budget is to pay for women's income on maternity leave, as it is reportedly seen that employers increase the salary of employed pregnant women in a period that has an impact on the achievement of this right. The change proposed by the ministry is seen in the observation of the average employee's salary for the past 12 months and is a non-stimulative population measure. The birth of children today has become courage and the women they give birth to should be rewarded. The fact is that being employed today has become a privilege in Serbia, not a fundamental human right, so many women who do not work in an unorthodox situation to delay the birth of even the first child, without talking about the problems of many employees of women who know that if the child is left out of work, because they had to sign a blanco contract on termination of employment. One more thing, with which I must express my disagreement, is the reduction of the transfers to municipalities and cities. For 2009, the planned amount of this transfer was 40,681.000,000 dinars. Then the rebalance was reduced to 25,681,000,000, which means 15 billion. This has led many units of local self-government to a situation from which no exit can be seen and their functioning has been questioned. At the same time, while the reduction of transfer funds to cities and municipalities was carried out on one hand, the state uncontrollably established a number of imaginary bodies, most often by the agency, was a lot of words about it, so I don't repeat it. The citizens realized how much they cared about the even development of all parts of Serbia this time. This is the best example. I consider it my obligation to say something today, when we talk about the 2010 budget, about the audit of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. The state audit institution began to operate and immediately identified a number of irregularities. Many of them, I won't be able to mention them all, but the largest number of irregularities was seen in the item – professional services. That's the point where we from the SRS have had objections all these years ago. Turns out we were right when we said it was the way money was taken illegally. The state auditor just confirmed it. In the end, on behalf of the SRS, I will express my disagreement with this draft budget law for 2010 and express hope that this proposal will be final, that in the coming year there will be no new rebalancing, because we are too much in charge anyway. Whenever I say so, the Minister says there is someone else who is in charge of us, but the fact is that everyone is responsible for their actions. Also, Serbian citizens expect that in 2011, when the time comes... All right, thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33564	Twenty minutes. Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word, in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the PUPS Parliamentary Group, the LDP Parliamentary Group, the Manjina Parliament Group, the SPS-JS Group, the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia, the DSS Parliamentary Group, the G17 Plus Group, the SRS Parliamentary Group and the ZES Group. The word is wanted by Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33565	Let's just say a word from this stage, too. Diana, Zarko and I have agreed on how we're going to work, so I won't bother much. The part relating to purely professional issues of the budget, Diana has all the rights and she will explain it well, but those questions that were related to my portfolio, in a very inspiring speech by Mr Popovic, which I accept in part, remind him that, as he did, I have been in the development for 40 years. Maybe this is where the development money is hidden. I don't agree that this budget is not developmental -- a billion and 100 million in credit for Corridor 10 -- and 600 million for Corridor 10 -- railways, with Russian money, 450 million, also in loans. As far as traffic infrastructure is concerned, this budget is developmental, Mr Popovic, if you agree with me. As far as the roads are concerned, there have been a lot of words, criticism today, as far as I can see, the Government of the Republic of Serbia remains consistent in the course of the highway through our country by May 2012. These funds, which I'm talking about right now, are already there and they're being spent in part. There was little criticism, again in a very inspiring speech, MP Jovanovic, concerning the organisation of the job. Of course, in the first year of work, there were a lot of problems with the organization. Our companies haven't done anything in years, and they had to organize. Today we already have a relatively well-organized production in these road companies, we have a good design organization and we have money for expropriation. I remind you once again, part of the budget relating to the expropriation is also hidden in the finance ministry, but large funds were needed for expropriation. And today it takes 100 million to expropriate. So this year, what's finished on the completion of traffic infrastructure related to Corridor 10, that's that 50km of complete highway. Our construction operation has been trained to continue to operate, complete project documentation has been prepared and expropriation has been prepared. That's what's a prerequisite for us to be able to do the new 150 kilometers this year, and to be consistent with what we said on that project. As for criticism of railway subsidies, Mr. Hajdarevic, Mr. Jovanovic, etc., of course, after 35 years, as far as I'm concerned, we have entered the railway reform. For six months now, the railway reform project has been under way. Now, in the year when we think about starting this reform, which means the already famous separation of infrastructure from transport services and other daughter companies, we can't reduce the number of workers. We know that the workplace is sacred today. So that 13 billion is a personal income for those people who will spend this year in railways working as much as they can, but at the end of 2010, we guarantee that we will finally complete the reform of the Serbian railway. It's the essence of that subsidy and nothing else. And one more thing, the railroad wasn't neglected, of course, that Corridor 10 is very important, we're a whole Russian loan, related to that part of the infrastructure, translated into railways. So 450 million today from the Russian loan, 200 million for the closure of the Prokop, or the 'Belgrade railway node', 150 million for the completion of the Valjevo-Loznica railway line and 100 million for the completion of the railway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, or electrification, we singled that out from Russian funds. What I also disagree with one of the inspiring speakers, I won't mention Chinese credit, money doesn't have color. I totally agree with that. So, West, East, I don't admit it. It's important that, let's say, with Russian companies, we talk about their participation, because they have places in our railway projects, we don't need some major technological innovation for the highway, we can do it ourselves, but because the world banks insist on tenders that are international, we meet that condition. So both Chinese credit and Russian credit are absolutely present in this government and therefore this project is a developmental one, and therefore I ask that the Government get support at this point. One more thing, it's important that the project goes, he's alive. Now I'm going to say something that may be too early to talk, but our construction operation, which really wasn't trained, when I'm talking about the construction operation, I'm talking, first of all, about the travel industry. And what were we doing? We privatized all our construction companies of the travel industry, there are no large enterprises, and the companies that were engaged in maintenance are privatized. I can't have companies working on maintenance building new highways. That's the problem. In this year, we managed to homogenize them somehow and make them and that job work. Now they themselves, it's a positive trend, suggest that, let's say, the northern leg from Novi Sad to Subotica is doing a consortium of our businesses at the cheapest price, of course, but there are problems with the Public Procurement Act now, etc. We have agreed, they will make a proposal, and I will be proud to present this proposal to the Assembly, to see that our construction operation is working alone on this project. That's what seems inspiring at this point, Mr. Popovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33566	People's MP Kenan Hajdarevic is looking for a replica. In addition to the application of Article 27, I will ask Minister Milutin Mrkonjic to explain to the public the structure of the law we are currently dealing with, what is hidden money. (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the post: On what basis? ) On the basis of Article 27, taking care of the application of the Constitution, laws and regulations, so to explain what he meant when he said the money was hidden in the budget and what problems there are when he says he has problems with public procurement, assuming that many of us understand what the minister wanted to say, but, the stenogram also works for the public, I would ask that Mrkonjic and Diana Dragutinovic also specify it. Later, you'll be entitled to replicas. Minister Milutin Mrkonjic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33567	I'm sure Mr Popovic understands all that. I spoke to him. There's no hidden money, it's development money, that's what I'm saying, but they're in loans. It's not even a term that matters now. Do you understand me, Mr. Popovic? That money's going into development! And credits go into development! That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33568	The word was sought by Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33569	So there is no hidden money, who knows the budget classification well will easily find all the money that is intended for example for travel infrastructure. Where's all the money? Minister Mrkonjic when he said "hidden" that means they are not visible in the Ministry of Infrastructure, they are simply not all money there. Expropriation money intended for Corridor 10 is in the department of the Ministry of Finance. The money provided for the implementation of the expropriation for the entire Corridor 10 is located in the finance ministry, not in the division of the Ministry of Infrastructure. And finally, all those money that is credit and guarantees for public enterprises, which will also be financed practically from credit sources, are clearly seen in the members of this law that describe the loans that we can withdraw and the guarantees we have given to public enterprises to withdraw loans to build traffic infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33570	The right to replicas in order to clarify and based on direct references, MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Cedomir Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33571	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, when we talk about "The Railways of Serbia" and when I have criticised today for increasing the subsidy of three billion dinars in the 2010 Budget Proposal, you had to give the answers to the citizens of Serbia too much – will the citizens of Serbia who travel for example from Belgrade to Prijeboj, to Prepolje, when they get off the train not to look like miners coming out of the mine at the end of 2010? Will the citizens of Serbia who travel by rail finally be able to plan their road trips? What you're talking about "The Railways of Serbia" told us last year, the minister also spoke before you. Every year we talk about reforming the "Serb Railway" next year, and we have not received an answer here from you what has been done with 11 billion dinars that the "Serb Railway" received in 2009. It is impossible for all 13 billion dinars of subsidies, going to the Railway of Serbia, to go to employees' salaries. At the end of 2010, will the passenger trains have more than two cars when travelling 500 citizens? Are we finally going to have decent trains for New Year's Eve? These are the answers you must give, not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia. We've been listening for 10 years about the restructuring of the Serbia Railways, and nothing has been done on this matter, and the construction of new railways, hubs, and I don't know everything already. As far as ordinary citizens are concerned, we have no answer, but year after year, we travel in increasingly dirty wagons, worse locomotives, and, worse than all, we have fewer and fewer passenger cars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33572	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33573	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I think you've bypassed the essence of the problem I've pointed out. We have faced a problem that stems from the conclusion that the budget is socially responsible, therefore, both social and developmental, but the development budget cannot be a budget that stems from the state's ambition to deal with business. Then we pointed to several problems that the state has created, which are directly contrary to the government's efforts to develop the country. For example, we adopted the Law on Planning and Construction, which is within your portfolio a very important law, which destroyed our construction industry and that has destroyed potential investors. Well, no building permits in Belgrade have been issued, 700 companies have failed. Of course, the effects of the crisis are present and expressed, but we reacted wrongly. Demagogski, we're talking about the railway now, and today, the "Serb Railway" said it is not taking over trains from Europe, but rerouting them outside Serbia. What for, Mr. Grouchy? Because workers of a failed company decided to take the railroad. Well, in that way, I'm not getting into whether they're right or wrong, by solving their problems they produce much bigger on the other side, and the state is looking at it, because it's not popular to show everyone where it belongs. There is Minister Obradovic, so what does he do with students who demonstrate in Belgrade? No money? And has ever made a deal, say, with that party that advocates pension rights? Here, one year to support the pensioners, and let's see what we're gonna do with the young. Someone needs to make a budget for next year and for next year. The conditions of study are catastrophic, the conditions in which teachers work are catastrophic, the possibility of perfecting does not exist, travel, encounters, that the state must pay. Development policy is not a policy for you to make roads. Do you know what happened when you opened a tender for Dimitrovgrad? The first company is Austria's, the other two Slovenian, fourth Croatian, fifth Serbian firm. It won't be our economy that develops in these jobs because it's not competitive, we know why it's not competitive. So we have to define development policy much more seriously, so let's say -- here's the budget for something like that. We're protecting the socially endangered, but we're sending a message that it can't be the state that's going to give them life, they themselves have to provide it in the conditions that the state will create for them. We protect young people, give them the opportunity to learn, and we don't have the right to be angry with them if their education is the most dysfunctional by the standards we offer. It can be a minister today from the SPS, tomorrow it will be from LDP, the day after tomorrow who knows which, but these conditions, the context in which it is done, must be permanent. We've had 50 years of a stable system if we're talking about education, if we're talking about this kind of development that would involve infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33574	Three minutes, thank you. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33575	I answer to Mr. Hajdarevic, of course no one today can tell if the trains will be clean, neat, etc. next year, that is, the problem of our railways. We haven't invested in the railroad in 50 years. Now, for the first time, we know that the Commission for Reforms, which works, has already created the initial elements and that by the end of next year we will start reforming the railway without jeopardising, Mr Jovanovic said nicely, the social category, not to fire workers, but to overtrain them. These are processes that last. So, we know now, I agree with you, I've been on reform committees five times before, we have a working group today that does it seriously, prepares a programme that is already part-time and realized, that's what I said about railways. As for what Mr. Jovanovic said earlier, of course, yes, there were voices, don't make me here now to confront the people of the government that I represent here, with my colleagues and colleagues, about the application of laws and strikes of workers. Of course, by respecting all the strikes of the workers as positive, the railroad is a protected facility, and I first said it a month ago, it's the same as the airport, no one can be there. Why? Because the train can't stop like a car at two or three meters, but the train stops two, three, four kilometers, and 100 people can die while we explain ourselves who's guilty of what. That's my attitude and he's very clear. Unfortunately, we in the government have different understandings, too, and that's the result. I'll never stand for it, I ask that order be respected, no matter what the workers now think, here, now that they're looking at me, they'll say, "Beware this one hates the workers again, even if you of the opposition abuse it, then I'd better get out of office." Therefore, order must be. And because we don't have the strength to respect some kind of order, which is why the damage of the state is huge, trains now have to go around, which never happened, anywhere in Europe, and with us. And those workers certainly have rights if they're looking for what they're looking for, and I've already met them. That's what I'm talking about. Now, when we talk about development, I agree, the law you're talking about isn't in my jurisdiction, but it's important, I'm a builder and I respect it. Of course the construction operation is broken. We have an offer today from Russia, but we don't have the strength to make a complete team of our builders go there. Of course, I agree. But what you're saying, the Construction Act must define the basic conditions on which we're going to build, regardless, foreign, domestic partners etc. Of course, you pulled the tender, I'm glad you know that. And that's the problem, it's not just that tender, we have on the track at Corridor 10 of which is 10 foreign companies, and none of our own, because the terms of the world's banks are such that our companies, like, "The Bridge", which is 70% of the state's firm, have no job, and he knows that he's doing the job. No, it didn't go into competition between 10 on the train bridge at the chupre, and 10 million is about the value of the job. Those are the problems when I mentioned the Public Procurement Act. We need to clear that up first at the government and have an attitude. I will propose a clear position – how to protect our economy and where we know we are doing, Mr Jovanovic, please, it is very important that our companies, both 'lots', which are now on the tender, know that they are working and how. It's seven bridges and eight kilometers of track, they know, but we didn't want to affect them as a country to lower the price. We didn't even know what the price was. That's how it came to, say, be the company that we, here in Serbia, treat as the problem of being the cheapest. And that's the problem standing before us. That's why I'm asking for your help in these jobs and the money we get, we place where our businesses are, when I was talking about the Public Procurement Act, that's what I thought, at the cheapest price, they get a job. You say that well – why should the state interfere? Well, he must be getting mixed up. As far as I'm concerned, it has to interfere, at least to the level until our companies are able to do it, and they know they're working, both of these tenders that I've been talking about. In that sense, I sought and prayed for help if we discussed it again in the congregation. I don't want to bother anymore, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33576	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, based on the 100th National MP, Jorganka Tabakovic is asking for a word here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33577	I seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 100, means the right to call myself, and with regard to Articles 104 and your 27, because allowing you as chairman to seek clarification in terms of order and interpretation of the law, where the money is hidden, I find it necessary that, by maintaining the dignity of all of us who have in our hands this draft budget law, I say, 'To the wolf shouts, and foxes eat meat. ''That means the money is hidden - on page three you have, in the section of point 1.6 - Transfers to local self-government, municipalities and cities, 25.6 billion. It's a little bit for the municipalities, and it's up to you from DS, as a pillar of coalition, to be resented by everyone, but, "hidden money," which G17, cunningly and boldly calling the purchase of domestic financial assets and subsidies, transfers through its channels, the AOF Development Fund, the NIP, the local self-governments of which is dried bread at a time of small funds, which the team and such hidden money through these channels, which is 50 billion, very skillfully and concisely implements the pre-election campaign of money from the budget. It's the concern of all of us, that one party using the laws and money from this budget is doing its campaign. I hope I helped you in terms of article 27, keep order and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33578	There's no damage to the members you listed. I explained why I was asking to explain the term the minister used in a creative way, because it's about public finances. We who do this know how to interpret. In any case, your injury to the Rules of Procedure is, in a certain way, a contribution to the clarification. The word was sought by Minister Zarko Obradovic. Prior to that, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Vlajko Senic have the right to speak to the MP, Mrkonjic, and the MP Vlajko Senic, for the presentation of the People's MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. That'll be the order, after the minister applied for the same thing. Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33579	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, thank you for bringing up education. I absolutely share his view that if we want as a state that we have a better education – then we need to create a system where it won't matter who the minister is, from which political parties, neither personally nor party, but that we have a system that works and where we know what we want, and what's wrong, which turns out to be bad in practice, that we can change. I think the basic weakness of our education system is that we have failed in the past few years to establish a system of education, whatever that means. When I say whatever that means, I don't mean anything by it, but that professional people give their opinion on the education system. I'm saying this because our children are objectively lagging behind colleagues from abroad. The absence is 12 months and more, because we are taking different international competitions, in fact not international competitions, we are good at international competitions, but we are showing bad results for knowledge checks that give quality assessments of the education system. And that's true. Since 2003 we have participated in a study of the quality of the education system through the "Piza" tests. That's what we did in 2003, 2006, 2009. The results for 2003 and 2006 were poor, 2006 worse than in 2003, and in 2003 they were like some starting line. Now, in April 2009, in early May, we worked. The results will only be known in 2010 and we will see what they are at the moment. Essentially, we are now building a plan for 2012, with the belief that what we are doing should be done in 2012 to deliver results. It is true that there are problems and if we want to go to Europe, and we want to, I think that it is the opinion of all parties, when I say in Europe, in the EU, since we are in Europe, then we must also make our education system much better, that this question of quality is not at all asked. We're working on it, and I have to tell you that we're trying to make at least a consensus among people who want a good education, that everyone in it gets involved, but sometimes, the education system is such a system with 17,000 people, with over a million and 200,000 users, that they can't, or should, expect results overnight. It takes some time. Now we've made standards of knowledge, national and educational alliances, standards of knowledge by the eighth grade. After that they go – curricula, new textbooks. We passed two laws. The fact is, we've increased the training of children at both primary and secondary level. We've turned on the inclusion of marginalized groups. The fact is, Mr. Jovanovic is right when he says that education and there is not enough resources for education. No, 106.9 billion is not enough for Serbia, but I as a minister and this government are trying to extract, if I may say, the best we can and increase efficiency with these funds. If we haven't invested in years, and unfortunately, we've missed the chance in years of privatisation to invest significant assets in infrastructure, then there's no big results. There is no country in the world that could achieve good results in education without investing in education. We're investing, but when a groat of these funds, over 90%, goes into salaries, personal employee incomes, employee separation, then you can figure out how little remains to change a lot of things. We're trying with different international donors to make, let's say, that kind of system in the education system or what we're creating, that at least as concrete as possible, as effective as possible. Last week we had this first conference with international financial organisations that issue money for education, with a desire to see what money is spent on education, whether they both know what they're spending on, and that we know what they're spending on, to do these jobs. We're trying, I'm telling you honestly, to make this as good a result as possible, because for this second part, the infrastructure, it's not that there's no money, it's not that there's no money at all. For the first time in years, not to say for decades, we have made nine new schools thanks to the European Investment Bank's resources. We are now in talks, about 50m euros and that will be, but in the next few years. My colleague Diana and I will discuss with our colleagues from the European Investment Bank that in addition to infrastructure, some of this will be devoted to the equipment and other things needed for education. High, also a problem. Why? We adopted the Higher Education Act in 2005. We're applying the Bologna Declaration or we're part of the Bologna Process. The application began in 2006. Last year, when we started doing this job as a new government, my first job here with you at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was to amend the Law on Higher Education, to cut down the number of points, to create conditions to get as many students into the year. And we admitted that things aren't going well, as they are, they're not going well. There's something else I need to tell you, my impression, I'm going to say something else about students. It's my impression that everyone doesn't understand the importance of change and some professors don't want to change or can't change, a number of them really can't. Why? When you look at the accreditation process, the professor is completely autonomous when he's making his course program, he's completely autonomial when he writes his textbook, he's completely autonomous when he's teaching, he's completely autonomous when he determines the questions he asks, he's completely autonomial in teaching, he's completely autonomial professional. On the other hand, some students don't realize that they should be part of the bologna process, to continue each day, to study every day, and that all that they do during the week and during the semester is something that counts for them to give a final assessment. Some of them don't realize it, probably carrying along some habit of time that has passed. Now it is required to be active throughout this story, and where each other will find solutions easily. We had a weird situation. Last year, we changed the law here, we only changed the points and we wrote down a number of students. And he asked me yesterday, Professor Shami, why we didn't accept one amendment, I said, Professor, for a simple reason, about students who could be on the budget next year, so that after that competition, let's say, quality came to terms, we said last year it wasn't the request of the Doctorate and the students. Now it's all going to be the subject of amending and supplementing the law. One of our working groups is working. We hope that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will discuss the law at the beginning of spring. And we're going to change that, and so are many other things that have turned out to be bad. There's a lot of people inside the system who aren't ready to change. You've seen, we've had protests of students in the past days. The main part of the requirement was for the state to pay tuition, or one-time tuition. I didn't have, I mean, capacity, that's a nice word, but we didn't really have any money, until we saw Diana and the government how we could solve these problems. I must tell you, when we entered the data, we saw that there were five colleges at the level, let's say, Belgrade University, and we have an exact schedule for all schools in Serbia, these are students of Geographical, Defectological, Former, Political Sciences, Organizational Sciences and Security, and from higher schools at Serbia level, the highest number of students, who gave 48 and more points, are on the budget from the High School of Business. And since we now have, let's say, every college and every school ID, thanks to our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, we're going to have conversations with them in the next few days and see how much they can help us be a better situation. And we solved that problem. The question of quotas for master studies -- we couldn't bring quotas for master studies sooner because it was budget rebalance, because it was talks with the IMF, which was such that we didn't know what money we were going to have and we made that decision. After that, there was a requirement that quotas should be changed. There were colleges that didn't supply quality data themselves. Believe my word! It's about PMF and Defectology. I'm telling you this because for me, this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is practically the only place where I can tell the public all the information without me being a minister, believe it or not, interpreted in a way that corresponds to the concept of a note. We went out to meet further their demands and that was fine again. What was wrong? We have, of course, a heating problem, a doctoral study problem. We'll get a scholarship number here. We'll see if the universities do it or if we do it individually, but we also met that request. What we couldn't solve and why we couldn't meet and I think it's logical that we didn't? So-called score-gathering, points-gathering requirements. A request to collect points, respected colleagues, hides the fact that a number of students from all universities in Serbia have not passed enough exams and have not obtained a legally established amount of points to enroll a year! That's the whole truth about it. I'm sorry it's happening, but it's part of the study process. The largest number of students who have given a year is either on the budget or the state has now paid them tuition. And you're right, this can't happen! We need to change the system, we need to know what it's for and expect, that for what it gives, let's see – whether the results are consistent with expectations. We need this funding system to change. The state is making huge money. To be honest, apart from the people who are in education, a little who appreciates it, a little who wants to accept that money, because when you have so much money to fund over 100,000 students, then you'll admit that for a small Serbia, it's one big number, plus we have student and student homes, and then you just see how much Serbia, our country, stands out for the needs of higher education. To change that, we need to have a strategy, and we don't have one. Unfortunately, we're one of the few countries that doesn't have a higher education strategy, we don't have an education strategy at all. Why? It gave us our mentality. I won't accuse my colleagues before or before, that's part of who we are - that we don't have a strategy. It would be quite logical when you have a strategy, when the state knows what development policy is, when it knows what it wants in the next ten years, then to say, okay, well, now we finance, we scholarship, we give credit or we pay 100 percent to these students, these colleges, and then those who give a condition, meet 60 points, they're forgiven. It's investing the state in the future, because there's not a single country that can move forward, objectively, without more investment in education. We are now in a situation, yesterday I explained to the Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at a session that was before the beginning of the National Assembly, that with these means we will meet our obligations, but that we are asked the question of the costs that will be in basic education from the point of view of inclusion, which starts from next year, this year we need to carry out appropriate preparation, professional training, so that it can be applied, then Roma inclusion, preschool programme. Today, the question of accreditation is raised. Accreditation isn't over yet. According to accreditation, a number of colleges, higher education institutions will also have, by conditions, standards adopted, the need to employ a number of people. I have to say, years ago, for reasons unknown to me, at a time when there was money, and now for famous reasons, this year, I'm not defending the government or Diana, but the economic situation is what it is, therefore, for reasons unknown to me, but for years back, there's not enough money for the material costs of college. We have a weird situation where colleges get less money than they need and we simply have a heating problem at nine universities. That's what we're trying to do with the City. Dear colleagues, when a man observes a system of education, as a minister, I have absolutely no responsibility for it, but when we enter the depths we see that we are still solving some of the problems from the past, trying to make changes to achieve the best result with the money we have. We'll try to improve the education system in such conditions, I think we're on the right track. He's starting to grow consciousness after all. There's not much that can change overnight, because education has its own specificity and with changes and additions to the law, you're going to talk about it, we need to see what's best for higher education and other laws. In the spring we will be your frequent guests, there will be a law on the basics of preschool education and education, a law on student and student standards, a law on adult education, and then we will at least set a legal framework for the changes that we expect, and with the expectations that these effects of the Government will give positive results, that we will have enough money to meet all obligations to the extent that the law requires it. And my opinion is that unless the state is the next 10, 15, 20 years, every year invested in education and increased the objective means, it seems to me that Diana said on one committee, that you, the other colleagues, don't know, that the share of education in GDP in the country is 3.3% - far from the goal we drew as a state. Why do I say far? We've plotted2005. years to make it 6%. It's 3.3% now. If you take 0.8% at the level of local self-government it's still 4.1%. It's an average of certain countries that are in a similar economic situation in the environment, but not five or six, as much as we'd like. It's not the point at all, I'm going back to the beginning, and I'm ending it, we need to create a system of education where it won't matter who's in the government and who's personal, who's a person, but who has a system that works and who gives results what's not right to change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33580	The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33581	Mrs. Komic, I will also respond to Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Mrkonjic. Let's adopt our amendments, Mr. Radovic! We are prepared to take responsibility for the fate of pensioners who are due to return to Serbia in 2010 half the billions they received in 2009, and to invest those half a billion euros in the education system, in the strategy, in all the jobs you talked about and at least develop awareness of it, about the importance of this issue. The problem of education is not a specific problem for Serbia alone. Today he shakes Austria, Germany, Croatia, Greece, England. In England, Oxford and Cambridge, after an analysis, realized that they were not in the first 20 universities, launched a debate on funding the education system and made a consensus with society, so students are in charge, the state pays for study and donates over those basic costs of study, and then students return through employment in the future by starting a working relationship with debts. On average, 3,000 pounds a year, the state pays for each student, so that a graduate graduate from Oxford or Cambridge owes the state at the start of £12,000, and then returns it. There's got to be awareness of it, and we don't have consciousness here. It's perfectly normal here to donate 200 billion to pensioners, and to invest 100 billion in the education system, and that education system should create future value for both current pensioners and those who are arriving, and for those of us who need to rely on that pension one day. It's a short breath policy and we're on a dead end and we need to step out of it by telling everyone the truth. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, we didn't get along, it doesn't bother the fact that some foreign companies are in front of our own. We're here absolutely to comply with the rules of the market. You mentioned "The Bridge". It bothers us that the state destroyed the Bridge, which drew it from the election campaign to the election campaign, one-other, one-presidential, the other-presidential, one-election, the other-election, the referendums, and then ended up in debt to the "Mostagradje". She charged VAT, and she didn't even pay for her job, and today the Bridge is in a blockade. You know that very well. Since he's in a blockade, he can't get a loan from any of the business banks, so he can't buy a mechanism, so he can't send his people to requalified. She's not competitive because the state destroyed her. The state destroyed "The Bridge", so it dragged the "Planum" to the "Belgrade Round" and remained in debt, so the NIP has no money, but it will be next year. The "Alpine" doesn't have that problem, the "Alpine" has a country behind it, which says we'll support the economy by, say, tax crediting those export jobs, which we'll do, and we'll see where we're going the fastest, where it's most productive, so we'll step up education, and then we'll boost diplomacy, develop political relations in such a way that we're welcome there, that's what our country should do. Right, so we can do a lot with our construction operation, for example, in the Magreba countries. 150 billion will be spent on infrastructure projects in Algeria, Libya, Tunisia, but we don't have companies to show up with, because they're hostages to failed political projects paid here at an economic price, and that's our problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33582	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33583	Respected chairman, I would say that yesterday afternoon on the agenda should have been one law on changing the way political parties are financed and amending the rules on funding political parties during the game. We did not accept that law and I am now saying that we will not accept in the future that we are changing the way political parties are financed after the elections have been held and that in this way we are trampling the will of the voters. Such a decision has made it impossible for us to pass this law and not only ours, and other parties have also said they will not vote for it and then put us in today's position to inform those who have lost such a decision to Serbia's citizens falsely and speak of things that do not stand. I want to say that finally, and to repeat, Serbia has a state audit institution that will assess the quality of funding of all ministries in Serbia, I hope when it acquires capacity, and public enterprises and assess whether some money is being stolen, whether it is not being stolen and whether it is being spent effectively or not, in a way that is not rational. And this year, the State Audit Institute, in addition to saying that it has no opinion on Serbia's finances, I suppose by law, because only 27% of the total finances have been controlled, gave an individual opinion on how the finances of individual ministries were managed, so those who say something is wrong, that something is being muddled or stolen, I refer to the State Auditing Institution to ask what they think of individual ministries and what their opinion is. As for position 621 - the purchase of domestic financial assets, where the "Fiat" is located, where the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance, I can repeat what I said, therefore, low exports, a huge external trade deficit is something that is cancer-earthly of the Serbian economy and we need to support it. The state must support that and that is why these funds are, above all, for "Fiat". It has been said several times here, and to repeat what I said and what the citizens of Serbia know, that it is a strategic partnership. It's no direct investment. There is a clear contractual relationship and that 67% of our strategic partner's investment goes to 33% of Serbia's investment. So the ratio is 2-1. It's easier for citizens to understand. And until they invest, neither does Serbia. It is a job that will allow Serbia to become a regional car industry centre, which will employ not only people in the factory, in the flag, but also people who will be subcontractors of all that. It wasn't a solution to having a flag until 2008, when taxpayers paid for what no one wanted to buy, and when we were throwing money just to keep the social peace?- I'm sorry. So if we want to talk, we talk to arguments, not based on what doesn't exist and not on lies and misinformation. Therefore, there are! For the first time in history, I don't think the budget has ever been this detailed. Its spending will be transparent, with the help of more funding, the full control of the State Auditing Institution. And don't lie to Serbian citizens anymore and don't say what's not true anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33584	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33585	Mr. Senic, you used the word "stealing." I've never used the word "steal." That's what authorities do to judgments. I'm talking about the exact data that's standing here and I'm going to explain it, but before that, I have to tell you about yesterday's initiative. The SNS submitted a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Party Financing Act through its Prescribing Club, which is required to reduce participation in the party financing budget in general conditions of savings and crisis, according to section 14, function 160. You have done by not voting on the motion for a debate to damage the citizens by 132 million, how much all parties would have less money for their regular work. That's true. This second, I'm only talking about a book called Budget Law. I don't know which college you graduated from. Are you able to look at this matter? Items 451, 621, 454 talk about subsidies to private enterprises, 454, 621 – purchase of domestic financial assets. And that means that the G17 through its political representatives has people in the Development Fund, the chairman of the Management Board by function, Mr Dinkic, and its party elite set up in places where money from the budget, allegedly for'start-ap' loans, for tourism as the most important development branch, for the 'Fiat' whose payment is delayed. And the problem is that in the name of the budget pairs, and we fill the budget, all of us, Dinkic appears as a human, and his people, who give, divides, enables, and this is now a problem for all of us, subsidies, for which, take a stenogram, you will check, by regulations you define the criteria, not by law, so that everyone knows what the conditions are. Who were the guarantees given to for these and such subsidies? Mr. Dinkic himself! And what did the World Bank say on page 57 of the Development Fund's funding report? Only 10% of the funds are paid back. That's the problem. Is that stealing? Were there any transfers of those funds at all? That's not what I'm getting into. I am dealing with budget figures and I am saying - collectively, about 50 billion dinars are directed through a coalition member party, which, by amending the Ministry and Government Act, is allowed to decide on the largest amount of funds, which is your strength, you have shown on Vozdovac. Don't you dare, please, to say that it's fictional figures - just data from the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33586	Three minutes. The word has the People's MP Vlajko Senić, right to replication based on direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33587	I was hoping that this debate might remain within the framework of a professional debate, but you've moved on to something personal, so when you're interested in what college I've graduated from, I can tell you that the college that I've completed, the way and the average grade I've achieved in college, is a scale that I've set up that you can't reach in two lifetimes. If that's what you're interested in, you can go ask around, all the data is public. I don't have any problem with that. As for yesterday's bill of law, you, of course, are again, as always, using demagogy, so as to worry about the interests of citizens, and the only goal of that bill, which you failed to get through yesterday, and you will never get through it, that's what I'm telling you here, is to redistribute the money and take some of your former party colleagues, all by worrying about the interests of the people how to fill the account of the Serbian Progressive Party. That's how you wanted to damage fewer political parties and minority parties, because you reduced the part that political parties should get from the total amount from 30% to 15%. So don't talk about the concern of citizens' interests, it's just how to turn what you have 21 MPs into funding your political party in the coming period. As far as all these positions are concerned, you know well, I will not at all, unlike those of you who have disputed my expertise, it is your business and I do not care at all, to slow down your expertise, but you well know that there are positions here that are clearly shown in the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and that their distribution will take place under a special act of government. This is, in any case, an oho-ho progress compared to the time when the budget was composed of several sides, and what is also important, Mrs Tabakovic, we here in public debt, which is divided into external and internal, still have to service the old foreign currency savings 92.73% of the internal debt structure is an old foreign exchange savings, which you left us in the inheritance before 2000. We return it to the citizens of Serbia, we have great obligations because it is indexed in euro, because we want to respect everything that the citizens have saved, and what they lost in 2000 and give back to them. I'm telling you once again, we're working very closely together on the Finance Committee, we can always discuss this issue in a correct, collegiate and professional way, but don't insult it. I won't insult you, I respect both you and your political option, but I want to tell you how things are, and that's how it is. And as far as the Fiata is concerned, don't worry. I'm sure he'll be in much better shape than he was when you were responsible for his functioning. And if the citizens give you trust in the next election, you are absolutely free to return the flag to the state it was in until 2008. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33588	Right on line, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33589	Comrade Senić, I really thought that it really took minimal mental effort and one digitron, like this, to add items 451, 454 and 621 and not to start, and you were the first to start, a debate that comes only out of the budget. So I repeat, about 50 billion dinars of money hidden in these items is divided at a time when local self-government has only 25 billion. Three days to discuss not seeing these numbers will not change the reality and it has nothing to do with the story you're trying to impose on me. What's the story for citizens is this. What if you're returning the old foreign savings? Who was bankrupting these banks, and where are the funds from the bankruptcy? I've been looking, and I'm still asking you to form a development bank? Why don't you let the citizens know where the money went from 30 billion to something, and today we've heard from Minister Dijana Dragutinovic that there are only 388m euros left over from privatisation and everything else that has entered this country? These are the questions you need to answer. What's in this budget is that in addition to everything I've stated to 451, 454 and 621 items, we have 424, your party chief's ministry, specialized services. Well, come on, when you pulled my tongue, I'd like to meet the citizens in advance. It is planned, at one of the next government sessions, to abolish the Action Fund and create a new body called the "action fund", which will join the Privatisation Agency, which is dedicated to 250 million dinars through these specialised services. The Privatisation Agency, which did not charge the privatisation revenue, retained five percent of the privatisation fee, which has 466 failed privatisations, but has no cost of broken contracts, which has decided on everything, except to bear responsibility for the state in whose name, and on behalf of all of us, has done this privatisation! So you can't bring me down to the level of debate about people, I'm discussing phenomena. How much citizens appreciate and whose interests we think, when I tell the citizens that the same thing that matters to them is important to me, they trust me, because I live the same way as all the other citizens, I share their destiny, which you, your political party, and the people who represent yourself here, to a large extent for the last 10 years. The learning of all of us and the grades of all of us, do you know how citizens value? If we do anything to make them live better. I work on it getting ready for these laws seriously and non-niplying numbers, never. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33590	Thank you. The People's MP Đuro Peric has the word, and after him, the MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33591	I'd like to say next. Today, in the discussion, we heard extremely many different statements, on the one hand, starting to shed crocodile tears over the fate of individual situations with pensioners, and on the other hand, huge criticism is being directed to them, and unfounded, that they are the main drivers of development, that they are against EU entry, etc. It's all the wrong stuff. The following is true: PUPS, as well as the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, and before that, he fought for as little budget funding as possible to go into alimony of pensions. However, the situation that has been happening since 1994 has always led to the fact that there has been a lot of things happening here and that has not contributed. And now we're still at that stage. Why? Because we need to clarify what it is to make a contribution and who needs to make that contribution. Take only agricultural pensioners – since 2003, it has been abolished for every employee in the agricultural household to be an insurance company, but has been left to be the owner of that household alone to be the insurance company and then to radically reduce the number of those insurance companies, which has led to the category of 240 thousand pensioners who are in the most difficult situation. On the other hand, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund has a registered asset of that fund – what is from that fund invested in various activities and it would be good if this asset were returned in a certain way to that fund to be capitalised, and even now, I must say, from these various institutions, businesses, a lot of money is paid as a profit in the budget, and it does not go directly to see that it is part of that part and of these 215 billion. It won't be possible for those 215 billion to be the money that will solve this fate. I hope that's a lot of work, too, to find the right way to keep all of this going and how it's going to go. Currently, there are 90,000 pensioners in Europe, and you can check it on the Internet by 2050, it is believed to be 150,000. The situation is what it is, and these pensioners are actually more committed to getting the criteria they are in Europe than they are against that Europe. They are against the situation in which we are now in privatization, and privatisation is such that what is privatized doesn't go the way that it was done by pensioners who invested big money while they were working, past their pay, so they created huge businesses, huge systems, etc., which don't work at all at all; you see, and these now lying in Lapov are just the ones for which no contribution is paid, and that owner has money, they're just the ones on the other side, but he won't pay for it. Therefore, if we continue with this situation as it has been so far, we will come into a situation that no one will even want to pay because there are no sanctions against them and then we will be in a position to make retirement a social giving and social category. Retirement is an economic category. It's all earned in a certain way. So, we need to look for other ways to provide investment, how we will improve our economy and economy. Please, no one mentions, and I will now say one thing that may offend many – let us abolish all these accompanying services that are accompanied by powerful people, with powerful cars, with powerful followers, etc., so you will see what we can save there. That's what nobody's talking about. It's all supposed to be normal. But when it comes to what needs to be given to pensioners, because the situation is so, not because there is no real solution. How fortunate that this Kruševac, Kraljevo, Valjevo, Šabac, Novi Sad, Nis and others, who were the giants of our industry – what is not working, gentlemen dear?- I'm sorry. It doesn't work, there's no money, and then we're looking for a way to do it. Budgets aren't for investment, budgets are for incentives only. Investment needs to look for other exits. As far as pensioners are concerned, we don't have any monopoly that only we represent them, but, please, we need to be reasonable, to find a common way out of all of this, and not like this, you know, because giving those labels is like eating all of us alive, and here, the most endangered people of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33592	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic is entitled to a replica, a misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33593	Mr. Peric, I agree with you that retirement is an economic category. That's why that money you're talking about is long gone. That money was spent in a political project which was remembered among other things by that password: "Mosce-Lesce". Do you remember when you were gathering at the mitts and moving on to students who were in the terraces? You entered the ruling coalition through blackmail. Your request was to raise the pension fund by 10%. This is the finance minister. The pensions account for 15% of the country's GDP, 15% of the 30 billion euros, 4.5 billion, 10% of which is 450 million. You, Mr. Peric, were paid 450 million in 2009 and now of you, as part of the ruling coalition, we expect understanding for those who financed it, and these are, among other things, young people, entrepreneurs, generations that have stood up for the past 10 years and made it possible for you and those who gambled at Dafine, at Jezda, those who are victims of state robbery in the early 1990s, that even though it is no longer an economic category, through the social aspect and access of the state, they survive and survive. It's not about our desire to cut pensions to pensioners who have 13,000 dinars of pension, and half a million are those, but our awareness that in a year, all pensions will be even less, and the number of pensioners is even higher. Now let's react, preventively, to be a society that looks ahead, not a society that reacts only to the consequences. That is the essence of the amendment that we have submitted. Let's put order into the pension fund. We know there's been a lot of abuse here. We know that pensions were going in both regular and irregular ways. Those who went unregulated, to sanction once, to say - we can't do that anymore, to review disability pensions, to see what we're going to do with the fact that we still have a pension social category. Since we said we wanted to retire 70% of the salary, maybe it's better, Mr. Peric, to be 30% of what's worth, than 70% of what's completely unscathed. We need to talk about this together, and that's the problem with Diana Dragutinovic, which she has to pay through the ruling coalition's budget price. When we face a simple question – what is the future of a country, which is twice as unique for the past as the future, we all know the answer. We're here to look ahead and see how we can work it out. That's why we've been looking for -- every pensioner who's retired, who hasn't filled out a full-time job, should be aware of the fact that he's spending someone's money, the first money from this country's budget. Let's cut each year short of a full-time job rate one percent of that pension, so let's see if we need a state to define a state pension, one that will guarantee normal and minimum income to a pensioner for a normal life, to balance that... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... If we don't have such big rocks, it's our responsibility, it's a job for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33594	Thank you. National MP Đuro Peric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33595	I fully agree with the fact that in recent times it has been retired in the way that at some point the political situation in our country has been and that there is a large number of pensioners who have not completed their full training. Also, there were broad categories that had certain benefits and were early retirement and are now proposing measures that would make it stand in the way. So, to shorten these various processes that have so far been, including some of the latest national pensions that appear for these or those categories, which still need to be very clear and precise and lead them under legal standards. On that side, there's no problem and we're just insisting on this reform of the pension system and on the adoption of this new law to change these things and to get as clear as possible about these different relationships. However, as far as this world is concerned, which previously retired and the rest, I don't think it can be argued that it has any understanding of all this. He understood all this time, because, I must say, since 1994, we have constantly made certain restrictions, conditions have changed, so that when you look at how many people live with these minimum pensions, etc., this is a huge number of people, and on the other hand, not only do these measures that I'm talking about, not only with regard to these restrictions in the pension and disability systems, but also with everything that needs to replace what's called social security contributions, or pension and disability insurance, in order to bring about a clean situation, where, apart from those categories that the state has determined to finance them from the budget, for those categories, it's not a small number, that it is then brought to a clean plane and to be a clean situation. By the way, I totally agree that if we keep this up, not just pensioners, but we're going to come to a whole lot of things in a difficult situation, that it won't be able to work anything else, because if there's no development, there's nothing, then there's no talking about some kind of life. So, the thing is that we are realistically assessing every situation, and we will soon have a law on reforming the pension and disability systems, to do so, as much as possible and as acceptable. By the way, we didn't do any blackmail to anyone, but when we were in the election campaign, we talked about the need to fix that situation, which went towards what you said this morning, I don't know who mentioned, Mr Krasic, who, that social genocide that was being prepared. If we were in that situation right now, we'd be killing a lot of people right now. Not to tell you now what mortality is between that category and what all these situations are... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... It's a special story, but, please, you understand that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33596	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33597	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Unfortunately or fortunately, I speak on behalf of the LDP Parliamentary Group, but it is more than clear what the topic is. Allow me a few sentences for introduction, though from this debate quite clearly. So both Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and Mrs Dragutinovic said she was trying to achieve a balance. According to your claims, you have succeeded, between incentives and social welfare, if that's how I can simplify it, in this budget. Unfortunately, we really don't understand how. So, for all those who listen to this and watch and to understand this, at times of heated debate, between the MPs' club and us, we have to say the basic thing: what kind of development budget is that, if I'm not mistaken, more than 35% of the income side will be separate for pension subsidies – over 35% of what the state will total income will go as a pension subsidy and plus all the donations that employees have on these grounds. So pension fund subsidies, according to the data we received from the government, account for less than 50% of the total cost of the pension fund. The pension fund has become more or less equal to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's a tendency, and it's really over. Our question is, and the question that Mr Jovanovic was talking about at the beginning – when will it be said publicly? Unfortunately, sir, pensions are not an economic category, from what I've said, it's very clear that they should be an economic category. They're the social category, and they're the most social in this country. They, because they are not working on reforming the pension system, no work, are a noose around the neck of all Serbian citizens. That is why we are talking about intergenerational justice, solidarity and agreement. They're not here. The ruling majority, the second year in a row, gave way to blackmailing a coalition partner and to retain five votes in the Serbian Parliament, five MPs, agreed to something that caused the consequences of a long-standing fight, which is a linear increase in pensions, without any 10% pension fund reform last year. What's the result? The result is that the state continues to cramp in the mud in which it is present and deeper, strengthened by the global economic crisis, in our opinion, the inability of the government to react in a timely manner, but in a good way and because I will repeat, 35% of all income, if I am not mistaken, goes as a subsidy to the pension fund, from which no development is expected, no profit. Nothing's expected of that fund. It's a five-seat debt, five votes here. No reform of that fund has been made. No way! If I'm not mistaken, one of the MPs is the Vice-President of the Management Board of that fund. Exactly, the MP with whom I am plowing, if I am not mistaken, is the vice president of the party that was founded today, Miladin Kovacevic is the chairman of the fund. This is about the "partial fund" - the pension "partial fund". My parents are retired. You don't represent them. Trust me. They are deeply aware that the only way for this country to see through is to turn to export. Today we have 107 billion dinars, which we saw yesterday, like, so-called incentives, of which more than half go as subsidies to failed businesses. That's what the controversy was about earlier, and that's why it's important. More than half goes, sir, to failed businesses, but even of these incentives is a double subsidy to the pension fund, which is not expected, I repeat, no development. And what's the result? You gave something, and all the MPs, I remember, said it was impossible – 10% of the linear increase in pensions was not possible for real, not a moment. At that time, the euro was 74, today the euro is 96 dinars. In real value pensions have fallen. It's still, and in a certain way, about the fraud of those people whose rights you're supposed to be fighting for. The best help and the only possible help for pensioners in Serbia is: a) to draw a line and tell them – yes, what you did 20, 30, 40, 50 years was destroyed and destroyed. Who's gonna tell them? You speak in the name of them, so go ahead and tell them: the money has been eaten, spent, in wars lost, gone in the wrong politics. Because of that, the work of those 200 and a few thousand people, which is why there's been a change here, and this assembly is set on fire, to remind you, was one of the basic reasons why everything that people have been creating for years has been swept away, sir. It's all squandered! And today we're paying the price. We don't pay the price of bad policy from 2002, 2003, 2005, although it wasn't great back then. But she wasn't great because she couldn't deal with the consequences that had been left. And since that's the case, people have to give up something on behalf of their children, and they can't give up on behalf of the salary for someone here or on behalf of a target that's unclear. The pension fund must be reformed. This is a point without any debate and any approach to economic policy is not possible. He's not possible, but it's not the only thing. In this defense of course and foreign exchange reserves, is it possible for our economy to be export competitive? It's not. Well, it's not possible! These kinds of foreign exchange reserves are the most expensive way to defend the course that exists in any country in the environment. Is that what everybody's telling you? Excuse me, please, that's how it is. You can throw all you want, that's how it is. This government doesn't want to reform the pension fund or at least doesn't want to reform it quickly enough, so it can produce a result, and you're entering the third year of your government. If you wanted to reform it, it would be over by now, because the consequences will be enormous. What we're waiting for and listening to every year about what's going to happen next, and next year, that's not true. That never happens. That is why Minister Zarko Obradovic was forced to explain why for 100 students who met the conditions there is no money, although they were promised at their colleges that if those conditions met they would be able to enter the year. That's what we're forced to listen to. On the other hand, this stability, to define it, it was, I don't want to attach great importance to these discussions, it's clear, since there's no Prime Minister there, you pushed the debate for Friday afternoon, you're breaking up today because of some dart tournament or whatever, in the end, you're going to be talking about the budget at five MPs at the same time, just to get faster time going, but last year there was a debate, the state is the enemy and it's common in the attitudes of all the people sitting here. When any of us rise and speak, he sees the state as an enemy in achieving a goal. It's been so long and this is clearly seen from both the prime minister and the finance minister. Hang on, it's like, to explain it best, some kind of castle where there's some kind of apparent stability and, like, everything's fine, but it's not okay. It's not okay, trains don't come to Serbia today. I don't know if you have that impression, the state is falling apart, and you're here, and Friday night, the prime minister came in and out of this room longer than he had the budget exposure. It took longer, believe me. That's a real shame. Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who, personally here, dealt least with the economy, of all the prime ministers in Serbia's history, has always sat in a debate over the budget from beginning to end. If he didn't know the question, there was one of the ministers to answer the question. Our prime minister doesn't care. He says – next year we will have growth. Simply, mathematically, not economically, economic logic is even more wrong, if we have a GDP drop of 4 or 3.5% this year, that's your estimate, and next year we have a 1.5% growth – compared to what is growth? This year? Well, say it! Is there a potential growth in Serbia? There is. Is he 5%? So what's the real fall this year, real fall next year? What will be the actual loss in 2011, 2012, when the line is drawn? Is someone going to say that? You said the difference between income and expenditure, correct me, 107 billion dinars. Right? What's the budget deficit? Is it 3%? Fifteen percent?- I'm sorry. It's not in your speeches. In terms of GDP, it's 3% or 4%, compared to the incomes and expenditures we're discussing today, it's 15%, 655 versus 700 and something. Believe me. Okay, it's not like that. You'll explain, probably, how great everything is. And we're telling you, that's why we asked for a debate on the State Auditing Institution's Report, which is why yesterday we insisted on respecting the procedure, this is not the government budget of the Republic of Serbia, this is the state budget of Serbia. In that misunderstanding, you have come into conflict and conflict with all the parliamentary groups, unrelated to which the parties are. Some are forced to defend one position and the ruling party, others defending another. No one defends what's in the budget. You're going to have 126. Today when we were joking, we said we could vote first thing this morning, we didn't have to discuss this, because in those interviews you're doing, the situation is great, there's nothing to talk about. But the situation isn't great, it's catastrophic. The next year will be worse than this one, and that's why there's no prime minister, not because he's got more important things to do. That's why he's gone, because you'll know by division that you're explaining everything and in these details you'll kill any political idea we're talking about, but the essence is clear -- a budget in which a third of the pension fund grants can't be developed by any definition. Even when there's a minister of faith, we understand his role here, since only an unspeakable faith can convince anyone to trust you, without any questions, no doubt, with nothing. But even he left you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33598	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Zarko Obradovic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33599	Thank you, Mr. Andric, when you spoke about the students, as far as I know, you presented one incorrect piece of information. So I'm saying that this is one of the few times that I'm a minister, even though it seems strange, in a situation where I tell the public what it is. No student who gave the condition for the year remained out of the state's care. A number of students have appeared in the applied arts that have enjoyed certain rights over the past two years based on the old Statute. The administration of a higher school institution, believe it or not, did not find it appropriate to emulate the statute with the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2006. When we in the Ministry noticed that and when we asked for the law to be applied, there was a problem. Instead of saying -- wait, you've been using something you didn't have the right to for two years, or students to say -- we've used something we haven't had a right to for two years, the problem is the street, the problem is the government. That's not true. It was not in accordance with the law, it was not in accordance with the statute of the university. The dean signed a document where he made them a promise, believe it or not, he says – the university will pay you until 2011, until that generation completes the course of study. How? No problem, they'll pay for the college. Well, why doesn't he pay? There's no money. Then who needs to pay for something that doesn't have any money or that doesn't comply with the law? Of course, the government, because it's expected from the state that it's always the address for everyone and that there's money for everyone. Then they were told – let the Ministry issue us confirmation that they are budget students, but we will not take their money. I'm sorry, the issue of any such confirmation is a violation of the law, and it pulls back a number of other actions that are also a violation of the law, probably the right to retire, certain social benefits, cards, home, loans. I'm saying this so the public knows what can be inside what's called "the demands of individual students." So the state gave money to all the students who gave the condition for the year. Of these, those who have not given a condition for a year are excluded or have requirements that do not comply with the Higher Education Act. Whether that law is good or not, we'll talk about it in April. I told Professor Shami, he would have a satisfaction that in one part of his amendment would be accepted, but I also reminded him that last year the entire university public didn't think it was necessary to change that part of the amendment. I am going back to what my colleague Jovanovic said, and we need to create laws that will not be the matter of a minister. You can't have academic public one year acting one way or the other. I know there's nothing sacred that can't be changed and there's no taboo theme, but still. If the entire academic public says, including students, that we should change that and that, then next year another student can't say – listen, he's not a student, he's a representative of someone else. He can't! As for us, while we have a mandate, we work, when that mandate ends, then someone else will do this, but then the question is, should we also speak ill of colleagues, rather than from the point of view of facts. So that information was wrongly made public, and it probably made you mention it as an example, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33600	Thank you. This concludes this part of the session, you can't say the morning part, since it's 4:00 p.m. I'm setting a break until 5:00. In the electronic system, MPs Đuro Peric and Konstantin Arsenovic were reported, given that time was used for the parliamentary group, then one of the MPs or the authorised representative or deputy representative would have the right to reply at 17.00 hours, since I suppose that is the case, therefore, one replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the word is Mr. Djuro Peric. Please, just sign in. Mr. Konstantin Arsenović has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33602	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I use Article 101, I have a replica of the presentation of LDP MPs and, before I say anything, I want to thank them in the way they view the status of pensioners. It's our best commercial. That's one thing. Secondly, the noose held by the pensioners in this parliament, does this mean that it should put a noose and pensioners around its neck. What should we do with the pensioners so that they don't interfere with this society, should they be killed or brought to the brink of hunger and existence? So many of them barely live. I cannot accept the fact, it is not true that these five MPs are blackmailing this parliament and the ruling coalition. At the very least, if we want to be at least correct, it's about the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, then the whole coalition keeps a noose in this House. Such an approach representing the gentleman is not correct. It would be good if they gave up some of their own privileges. They're not ashamed to use it, but that's why they can criticize those who, in the end, have created everything this society has ever had and deservedly earned their pension, which is what it is. Many of these pensioners support not only their children but also their grandchildren. Well, that's a possibility you should take from them? We know this is a burden to society, but pensioners are the least guilty. Since they do not recognise acquired rights, their discussion shows that these acquired rights are not respected, they are disturbed by pensioners and should be removed in some way from the political scene and in general from the lives of this society. Therefore, please, and that is why I am once again grateful for your discussion, it is an exceptional propaganda, I am ordering pensioners – what fate awaits them if you come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33603	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33604	Madam President, we have been talking all day, pointing to the unsustainability of the relations that have been established in politics, not the concern of pensioners. First, here we speak in clear language, so we have to say what the privilege is. When you have police security, it's not a privilege, it's a problem. What kind of state offers you police security for not being able to protect your life? It's just for you from the PUPS privilege. Since you're taking care of the pensioners, for not taking care of those who are most at risk, you've increased everyone's linear pensions by 10%, including those who had a pension of 10,000 dinars and those who had a pension of 50,000 dinars or 100,000 dinars, as your president. Well, he didn't sacrifice himself for the pensioners who disappeared, so, what he didn't say, we're going to increase those who are most endangered. We'd like to establish order here. And my parents are pensioners, 40 years of employment, father of two colleges, mother too. But we're talking about 25% of people who are receiving disability pensions, and they're not disabled. We are talking about the fact that in this country more disabled pensioners than those who exercise their right to pension by receiving family pensions, and that only 18% of pensioners received their pension on the basis of full employment and that you cost you five of this country 500m euros last year. So 500m euros is 10% of the linear raise in the pension fund, because you were blackmailing and that should be known. The question is, what are we going to do tomorrow? How long will it take if it behaves like that? Pensioners are at least obliged to put up with one policy at the moment that allowed them to think of themselves, allegedly taking care of them. Where were all those who took care of them today when it was their right to have been unthinked? It's not a Scriptural right so we can't compromise on him. Well, did we agree that retirement is an economic category, not a social one? I'm sorry, you're right, so you lose your right. How is that possible? The countries have failed, millions of people have left this country, on purpose, and you are referring to your right as if time had stopped 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33605	Mr. Djuro Peric. I'm sorry, I think there's already been enough replicas between the parliamentary groups, no personal mentions, so I'd like to ask. My estimate is there's no basis for further replication. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. Please, I'll refer to Article 101(2). "If offensive expressions are related to a parliamentary group, that is, a political party whose MPs belong to the political parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply." I think we've finished a circle of replicas. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33606	Wrong interpretation, wrongly interpreted what we said. I'm sorry there's been a misunderstanding in the part of the SPS coalition I really don't see any competition, there's no reason to argue like that, but we didn't say that, it's important to clarify. So we didn't say. What you said was real, like Chedomir said, great demagogy. We don't want to take away anything that belongs to him. We're just telling you that in the same way you could have said -- you should give every pensioner 100,000 euros each, and then we'd have just failed before, rather than this linear increase of 10%. We're telling you that this request is unrealistic, that it's demagogue, and it directly led to today each of these pensioners, despite perhaps your good intentions, living worse than he lived before he got 10% increase. We made this very clear; at that time the euro was 74 dinars, if I'm not mistaken or 75 dinars, today is 96. The real value of that pension, despite the increase, is now less than before the 10% increase. One of the basic causes of what happened is that the state is burdened, the state's budget is burdened with unrealistic demand or blackmail, because we've seen it in the media, we don't know what you're saying to each other. In the media, your group said -- you won't vote for the budget last year unless there's a 10% increase. It was a political stance. We're telling you that this blackmail has led to no one benefiting today, no state, no one's benefiting from the same pensioners. That's why we say - that attitude is demagogue. You can answer as much as you want and say -- it takes every pensioner a million, two, 30 million euros, and it all sounds nice, but it's not real. The only thing that's real... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... is to look the truth in the eye and say it. I gave you arguments, 30% of the budget... (President: Time, Mr. Andric. )......................................................................................................... Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33607	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Mr. Djuro Peric, who also advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33608	I'm advertising Article 101(2). Mr. Andric mentioned me personally in the function of the fund, in the function of being a representative, as well as Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, political party. No, Mr. Andric, the fund is managed by tripartite employers, trade unions representing insurance companies, and users, pensioners. That is what the Governing Board does – seven members each. I came to that board of directors from the Alliance of Pensioners when there was no party. That it is also known that I should add that the employers and we downstairs are all looking for reform of that system, in principle, to come to him as one fund that will capitalise all of his assets and all of the rights that he had and which he gained even earlier. That we understand each other. And those 10% that melted, they melted in everyone, not just those unfortunate pensioners. That 10%, it melted into everyone if they had the situation they were in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33609	He didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by Mr. Zoran Ostojić and Mr. Slobodan Maras. Mr. Free Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33610	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Peric, I must remind you of something. When is...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33611	Mr. Maras, you can't talk, please, don't talk to the Rules of Procedure, tell which member is injured and explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33612	Article 104 is because there's lies here. For one thing, the representatives of the LDP are not well interpreted, because no one here intended to attack the pensioners, or to fight the rights of the pensioners. Like Cedomir Jovanovic and Ivan Andric, I have parents who are pensioners, and we all have pensioners in the house and we all want them to live better. That's what we told you when you were blackmailing -- don't increase your pensions linearly! Then what was your answer, your argument? I remember well what the president of your parliamentary group said. The pensioners have never been in a situation like this, now thousands of pensioners are on board. We're not talking about the interest of hundreds of thousands of pensioners, but we're talking about the interest of five people in the Parliament Club, those thousands who are on board. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners have minimum pensions, they're terribly hard to live on, but the move that led to half a billion euros being separated by a 10% increase has only improved the standard by a small number. Up there lives 99% of the pensioners, because they jumped the euro then, and they're all aware of that. Don't move the ball to fight the rights of pensioners and their rights to a dignified life here. And then we said, and now we repeat -- these people who are now retired, the vast majority, they built this land, and it's nothing controversial, but now they're destroying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33613	Time. Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić, advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33614	Dignity of the Assembly, Article 104, President. We're being watched by citizens, if not now, they'll be watching us in the video. I think it's because of them that we have to stick to some facts. This is where one of my esteemed colleagues said that he was at the PIO fund, on the board of directors, before the PUPS was founded, seems a long time ago. And, say, does the management of the fund and the situation in which the pensioners are located have any effect on the responsibility of that colleague, who's been here for so long, and we see that the pensioners don't flower roses? The fact that the chairman of the Management Board has today become the vice-president of one of the Ljajic parties is probably an argument in favour of being representatives of all three stakeholders. No, they're party officials, it's clear and clear to the citizens. Today we are discussing the budget, the contribution of the 740 billion, the aid to the PIO Fund is 215, that's almost a third. If this policy continues, next year it will be 300 billion, next year half the budget will have to be added to the pensioners. Who's gonna pay for that? Where did that half come from? The real PUPS is an LDP, the right solutions proposed by LDP are in the interests of pensioners, and what the PUPS suggests is against the interests of pensioners. We proved that on the 10% case. And why is the LDP defending the interests of the pensioner? These pensioners and those who come will only be able to get a pension if there is development in this country and obey the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33615	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33616	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last two calls on the National Assembly, in the context of the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, I am trying to point out the worrying fact that due to inadequate development policy and the unbalanced regional allocation of budgetary resources, the galloning lagging of undeveloped areas continues. Despite the functioning of the Co-ordination Body, nearly 10 years ago, basic projects of the 2001 government programme are not being implemented in the Presevo Valley, which was scheduled for economic revitalisation of this extremely underdeveloped area, as well as adequate involvement of Albanians in state authorities and institutions within three years. Unfortunately, we still have a drastically difficult economic situation with the total abandonment of this area, even during the one-party regime, and this is also the result of the violent decomposition of the former Yugoslavia, when this area is completely ghettoized by new borders that have roughly broken ties with Kumanov and Skopje in Macedonia and Gjilan and Pristina in Kosovo. Instead of economic revitalisation, after 2001 there was a further lag behind the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, as well as neighbouring municipalities of Trgovište and Bosilegrad, which now have five to seven times less national income per capita compared to the national average, with a catastrophic unemployment rate that is even higher than the record 70%. As a direct consequence of this very difficult economic situation, there are very intense population migrations in this area, not only in the hill-mounted municipalities of Medvedja, Trgovište, Bosilegrad, but also in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, through which Corridor 10 passes and very significant international traffic. Data from the last two censuses show that the population of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, in total during this period of 11 years, has been reduced by 13.683 inhabitants. On an ethnic basis, this reduction in the population has the following structure: Albanians – 10,817, Serbs – 2,142 iRoma – 724, with the fact that, I must add, a more realistic reduction in the number of Albanians in the Presevo Valley, because in 2002 some 5,000 refugees were listed in the course of the war, who still failed to return to their hearths, due to lack of basic conditions for life. I present these statistics because of the nasadic explanation of the draft budget in the work on the Economic Classification Co-ordination Body 511 and 512, where projects in Serbian settlements are said to finance projects in these positions to prevent the migration of the Serbian population. So, despite the comments I made on this subject last year, and more importantly, despite the fact that on 27 March this year we signed an agreement on the reconstruction of the Co-ordination Body, which was supposed to include representatives of Albanians in the joint work of this government's body, unfortunately continues with the authoritative imposition of even such anti-civilisation solutions which provide one part of the population in this area only by ethnicity. In all likelihood, such relapses of political and ethnic prejudice have hampered the implementation of the Europe Council project on "mini region" Presevo, Kumanovo, Gjilana in 2002, which was to initiate cross-border co-operation in the area of economy, of course, and in education, culture and information. I cannot understand that this proposal for a South Serbian municipality budget cannot be included within the framework of another component of the EU's pre-accession cross-border co-operation instrument financed from IPA, as cross-border co-operation with Kosovo is not envisaged, which is not known to be in the question of current official policy, and which is even more incomprehensible, even with Macedonia, which is absolutely beyond my grasp of what it is. If the structure of the proposed budget for the Co-ordination Body is analysed, there is still no willingness in the government to support the development, socio-economic components in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, which could only prevent the current mass departure of young people from this area, which are closed all perspectives for normal life, because they have no chance of employment, both because of the disastrous economic situation, and because this government does not show a willingness to address the key problem of recognising Pristina University diplomats and nostration of diplomats of Albania and Macedonia's universities. Instead of a serious approach to address this dramatic situation, the draft budget focuses on translation work for colleges to be opened in Presevo and Bujanovac, after we get a feasibility study, which is quite late and long working. This suggests that an ongoing experiment with eight Albanian students in Medvedja is planned to expand to both Presevo and Bujanovac, where around 800 graduates graduate from high school annually. According to the already very funny logic, in light of this budget on the privileges that Serbian residents should have, now, under the facade of a project to solve very sensitive problems in the Albanian higher education, it is proposed that students of Serbian nationality follow the course in the native language, and Albanians would have a surrogate from the lecture, translations that would go along with a simultaneous technique, and from the current practice in Medvedja, absolutely unprofessional people do so. Now the question arises – do we really want to solve the problem of education, higher education in Albanian, or do we just want to postpone some things, and some processes take place, people go, wait for a year, two, have no chance either, and on the other hand they don't have the opportunity to study in their own country, to finish colleges and be ready to work. If we delay this, for some time we will have no one to find a solution to these dramatic problems faced by young people in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33617	Thank you. The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33618	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Halimi, we have discussed this subject several times. I don't think it's correct to criticize the Coordination Center the way you do it. The coordination centre and counterpart Markovic are doing a lot to improve the situation in these three municipalities. I know that there is a good will and that both he and the people at the Coordination Centre have taken a number of activities to improve the situation, but I must say that in all the actions that the Coordination Centre leads and colleagues Markovic, they do not always have full co-operation on the other hand. The hand provided is not always, unfortunately, welcome, but I know that much is done and that the Coordination Centre, together with the Ministry of Education and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the University of Nis, Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Economics of the University of Nis, has managed to open two departments of these two universities in Medvedja. And it started working. That the permit was signed by the Registrar, i.e. I, that a number of students were enrolled, among them a number of Albanians and that it was true that teaching was organised in a way that there was a simultaneous translation into Albanian. Obviously, at this point, we didn't have enough quality teachers to meet all the standards that are meant to work in higher education institutions. That might not be enough. But to say that it's not good and it's not good, I don't think it's right, because that started a few months ago, two months ago, and that's what started and will continue, because I know that the plan is to open up the same thing in Bujanovac and that members of the Albanian minority as well as the Serbs and others living in the area, the three municipalities, create conditions for higher education, which you will admit, rarely happens in many other countries. So, higher education in their native language, which you will admit, rarely happens in many other countries, which otherwise take the right to tell us lessons, verbally and otherwise, about human rights and the rights of minority members. When it comes to the issue of diplomats, Serbia has repeatedly, publicly and clearly said it recognises diplomas that have in their content the designation UNMIK Kosovo. I don't think that's controversial. I don't think it's been a problem until now. If there was a problem, the problem was overcome. But that's where two more questions are asked. They objectively set themselves up, no matter what anyone thinks about it, and here I am telling you what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does. The question arises – why are diplomas issued without the UNMIK Kosovo label, which have in its contents the 'Republic of Kosovo'? Why are these children in a position to be issued documents that are known in advance that cannot be used in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? It is a question that unfortunately does not come up with an attempt to answer from any side. I'd like you to think about it, so maybe give us a possible answer. The second question is – why do children go to colleges that issue official diplomas that do not have a label in their content – Serbia or have a label – the 'Republic of Kosovo'? To that question, too, an answer should be asked, as we have, unfortunately, the situation in the rest of Serbia that some children, and their parents, with the consent of parents more or less, enter universities that do not, for example, work, permit or are not subject to the accreditation process, although they know in advance that it does not have its own useful value. It's not just a question of relations to those diplomats. The state has the same attitude on the issue of quality evaluation of higher education institutions and cannot always be asked for a guilty party to Serbia, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and ask why the government is not doing something. The government is doing something. But the question arises – why is the other side, in this case, the education system operating under UNMIK Kosovo, issuing diplomas containing in its content the 'Republic of Kosovo', without the designation UNMIK Kosovo? Why? That question is unfortunately not being elaborated properly. I think that the state of Serbia absolutely has a good will and that it has shown this good will several times. Now through the work of these two departments in Medvedja, hopefully next year and in Bujanovac, there will be conditions for members of the Albanian minority to be educated in their native language at the level of higher education, and then we will all really be in a position to see if it is impossible to achieve education in their own language or something third, which at this point may not be spoken of or perhaps there is no good desire to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33619	There's no basis for replication, Mr. Halimi. This was just an explanation. No offense, no clarity. Mr. Zoran Shami has a word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33620	Thank you, Madam President. I'm, not the first time... (President: Just say which member is injured? )......................................................................................................... Article 104. It's not the first time we've discussed this matter in both this assembly and the debate with Mr. Secretary. The theme is very sensitive, and I think we can't deal lightly with the topic of life that is currently absolutely discriminatory in the most drastic form of the population in this area. It's a higher business school, not directly, but indirectly, from Cačka. Although, there is or no accreditation, it's a matter of power. It's been working there for four years. They bring teachers from Tetovo, Skopje who teach in Albanian. They don't do these surrogates since teaching through very bad translations, which absolutely undermine the concept of studies and even high schooling at all. That's what I've been pointing to for a while. Gentlemen, should the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac, bear take more care of the authorities in Kosovo or the state in which they live? That is why I ask that this issue be seriously considered, because there is not a single Albanian student from this area to study in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad how it was before the armed conflicts and at all these tragic events in the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33621	Time. Thank you. I must tell you, Mr. Halimi, there is no breach of Article 104. Mr. Minister was extremely argumentative and correct and there was no harm to the Parliament's dignity. Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33622	Third time's the charm. Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I'll start with a single digression. My colleague, Mr. Andric, obviously did not understand that actually the minister of religion was the best choice to represent the budget, because when a man sees this miracle from the budget he can only cross, so the minister of religion is the most measured to assess whether it was done properly. The government has delivered us a very difficult budget. I measured it, it's two kilos and 300 grams. And if the quality of the budget were measured in kilograms, that would be one great budget. Unfortunately, the quality of the budget is measured by something else, and something else doesn't matter. I'm gonna start with the dissipating side. Of course, if you were to read all the illogical and all the failures of this budget, it would take at least two and a half hours, and I doubt that Madam President of the Assembly would let me do that. That's why I'm only gonna stick to two things. First, let's remember what the budget is, because the government is proposing a budget and actually proposing how much of the government's intention and ability to make money, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, how do we see that money, and how much more than that, will it spend? I remind you, budget expenditure is 762 billion budgets. However, in the budget, I have carefully controlled it, given the right to the Government to distribute 59,690,231,000 by its internal decision or to round up 60 billion dinars or, if you will, 630m euros or, if you will again, 8% of budget expenditure. So, 8% of the budget expenditure, the government distributes its internal decisions, it comes, somewhere, about 23m euros per minister. Of course, not all ministers are ministers, some have much greater rights, others much smaller. I offer a modest reward to the one who has the greatest rights from the first guess. I'm giving you a modest reward because you'll all guess. I pointed to this last time and I got covered with these two kilos and three hundred grams if we split 60 billion like that – the government on the minister's proposal, so how he likes it! It's a dangerous habit. What's quite interesting, which was last time, if memory doesn't cheat, 8%. Looks like this government works for 8%. That's what he undoubtedly has to worry about. The second thing, that's where more debaters pointed out, the question of spending money, you know, is usually thought that when they pay civil servants and pensions to the 50% limit, then it's generally thought that the state is in serious trouble. We've had it up to 63%. The state is obviously in serious trouble. Now let's go into debt and make a minus 107 billion, which is a billion and 100 million euros, if I'm not wrong, maybe even something more, so we really invest that money in something. I'll give you a banana example. We just heard we're selling raspberries for 80 dinars, and if we were selling raspberry candy, a 250 grams jar, we'd get 400 dinars. The embargo on the Trade Agreement has been lifted, but gentlemen, the embargo is not for taking pictures for the daily "Politicals". The abolition of the embargo and the application of the Trade Agreement in general serves to give our economy a chance. There are many, let me say, with sound names or some nameless and unknown businessmen who needed to provide some funds to stimulate exports, because there is clearly a chance now with the elimination of customs duties to appear on the foreign market. They can't just show up, they need to invest something, and this opportunity in this budget is missing out. Then, it was mentioned here, I'm sorry Mr. Mrkonjic left, Corridor 10. One thing absolutely exists, investment in traffic, in this case Corridor 10, which is not only roads but also railways, is something that is absolutely most profitable for the state, because up to the last dinar everything you invest stays in the state, spent in the state, everything. In the end, a multiple VAT goes back to the state. I know you're going to say now – we've provided giga-mega loans, etc., as if these loans were donated, it should be returned, it's all right, but the state has to by example, by investing its own money in these jobs to show the whole world clearly its intentions. We're showing that we're going to separate seven billion and another three billion for land purchases. Why not anymore? We heard, there's some money to invest in the railways, because otherwise I think I'm talking about railways, but I don't see any investment in the construction of the railroad. Do you know that current trains in Serbia are going slower than in 1936? They're going slower because there's 200 kilometers of railroads on which trains can't drive faster than 20 kilometers an hour. So instead of giving the railroad 12 billion and 400 million to keep it from working, let's start cutting these donations a little bit. I'm not saying we need to stop them right now, that's impossible, but let's cut it down a little bit, so we can transfer that money to a railroad reconstruction, back to the railroad, in just one much more reasonable way. Finally, something about income. Fifty percent of the income we plan to get from VAT, 325 billion. The DSS will be very happy if that happens. We're not rooting for it not to happen, we're just very afraid it's going to be very difficult to accomplish. Let's not be fooled by the averages of profit, so spending opportunities. You know, average is a really weird thing. I'll give you a simple check. If 49 people earn 200 euros a month, and that 50,000 euros a month, because he is a big boss, on average they earn 300 euros per month, but not 300 euros per month in consumption, but unfortunately 200 euros per month per head. Clearly, one who earns 200 euros a month has to eat and feed, if he can't eat, maybe at least the children will eat. Where's the VAT profits? I'm very afraid that VAT won't be anywhere near 325 billion. Next, you're planning another 20% of your excise income, 131 billion. Of those 131 billion, practically, except for about 11, it seems to me, billions, and everything else is excise tax revenue on oil and excise tobacco, unless Mr. Health Minister forbids you to smoke, I don't know what you're going to do. You can plan as much gas as you want to make, and you can be as much of the price of gasoline as you want, I'm on my way, buying monthly gasoline for 3,000 dinars, no matter how much it is, and of course, it mostly has the largest number of Serbian residents. So, you have 70% of your budget income on very flimsy feet. Fair enough to ask, what are we gonna do if that money doesn't exist? I repeat, the DSS isn't rooting for that much, it's going to be more, but I'm afraid it can't be any more. And that's why I said that this is a very bad budget, and that's why I said that sometimes I think about these issues, the government is going to be wandering, like geese in the fog, without a clear vision, without a clear idea of where it's going to come from. And then one day we'll realize that even 63% isn't enough for us, that we need 73% or I don't know how much, and then nothing matters anymore because we're definitely bankrupt. This budget is an announcement of bankruptcy, and if something urgent doesn't change, and the only thing that can change urgently is this and this government. And, almost, completely rescinded with this, I'm finishing this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33623	Thank you. Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33624	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the accompanying plans of the Republic Funds and the Memorandum of Budgets, is actually the government's work programme next year. However, it seems to me that at the moment when the budget is proposed and adopted, in fact, more attention has been raised and more dust is the audit report on budget spending. Right at the beginning to point out once again what I have often repeated and pointed out, that even the best law, well, among other things, the best and most transparent budget, can ruin its realisation, that is, the way the funds are spent and the expenditure is spent. The state audit institution and the auditor have done part of the job and delivered the report and should simply enable them to complete their work without pressure and to take legal measures against responsible employers, if deemed necessary. We are not going to entertain the citizens again about any machinations and unintended spending of budget funds, and the people want and expects from us the essential answer that they will live and survive this next year. I just don't want to talk about the past. We can't change the past, but there's a question of both the present and the future. The question arises – what is the economic environment and what are the macroeconomic frameworks in which we propose the next year's budget, i.e. 2010? My opinion is that economic trends, although unfavourable, are much more certain and recognizable than in the same period last year, when the impact of the global economic crisis on domestic economy could not be seen. Unfavourable tendencies and galloping crises continued late last year during the previous period of the current year. The economic and monetary policy measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia have prevented the collapse of the financial and real sector and the consequences have been mitigated, I would say, of the global crisis on our economy. The government's measures have stopped recessions, which is positive, but the question to which it is very difficult to answer at the moment is – when it begins and how long will recovery take, with the trend of growth of economic indicators? In the ambience when the net inflow of foreign direct investment is lower by, I think, 40% compared to last year, the government returns after a number of years to domestic economy incentives, through stimulating loans, with half the interest rate of the economy. The state has separated, I think, about four billion dinars, then consumer loans to buy domestic permanent, consumer goods, then investment loans. The state has provided, I believe, about five billion dinars, measures to improve the liquidity of the economy, as well as stimulating employment measures primarily for young people. With the measures taken to save and streamline the administration, forward those stimulating measures, I am convinced, will give certain results. Income based on value added tax on domestic products has significantly increased its participation in total income on this basis. In 2009, VAT on this commodity accounted for 30%, and in the 2010 budget – 43% of total revenues on this basis. The relationship also supports the fact that for the first nine months of this year, imports of goods were reduced by 30.7% due to the decline in demand, which was sensitive to the reduction of the current payment deficit. On the other hand, a significantly lower decline in real retail traffic in trade of 10.7% was recorded, leading to a real decline in consolidated public revenues by 8.8%. It is unfavourable that VAT revenues account for about 53% of the tax revenues of the budget, which suggests that this budget is also financed from spending. Other very important budget revenues are excises, which account for 21.6 billion in tax revenues. Excises on oil and tobacco products account for 91.2% of total excise duties, which confirms an ex ante assessment of the increase in excise duties, that when sprayed by income, the budget usually falls on the burden of users of tobacco products and on those using motor vehicles, or on drivers. If excise duties on oil derivatives are high, but derivatives are actually a necessary need, excise duties on tobacco processing account for 41.4% of total excise duties, which entails large costs of negative impact of tobacco on health and treatment costs. On the other hand, tax revenues from the income tax and profits of the corporation account for 16.0% of total tax revenues, which points to a level of business activity and business performance of companies, with corporate profit tax recording a 24% decline compared to 2009. This contributes to the fact that income from the social contribution to pension and disability insurance accounts for 52.3% of the current revenues of the Fund for 2010. The lack of the amount of planned funds is mostly provided from the budget. Our goal, in fact, should be to increase income from contributions, which can only be achieved by reviving economic activity, of course, by continuing to build started products. Corridor 10 is today a national issue. Today, everyone in Serbia understands the importance of Corridor 10, without renovation, modernisation and development of infrastructure, simply there is no economic development. As far as subsidies are concerned, what I want to say is that this part of the budget should be carried out as a priority, but that the effects are being reported by the Republic's parliament. So it is important that we, too, have a specific subsidy programme here in the Republic Parliament. For the majority, spending on budgets and spending on budgets is much more important. I think that's where the government came out with clear criteria and goals. This is the development budget with austerity and rational spending measures for the state administration. This illustrates that the mass of funds for salaries and staff allowances financed from the budget has increased by only 1.6% compared to the previous year, while subsidies have increased by 21.2% and NIP funds to 15.5 billion dinars and 25.2%, respectively. The difficulties in the liquidity of the budget in carrying out the commitments clearly indicate that interest on the payment of domestic public debt is increased in the 208.9% plan and amounts to 13.4 billion dinars. It also contributed, of course, to the budget deficit agreed with the IMF, with a total of 107 billion dinars, i.e. a budget deficit of 82.7 billion dinars. Budgetary budget deficit coverage should be secured from a loan planned at 78.85 billion dinars, as far as I can see. Finally, as far as the social effects of the budget are concerned, it must be borne in mind that the budget is created on the established rights. An active employment policy is needed through the promotion of production, not through passive giving to employees. Our expectations from the National Employment Service are not to be employee records, but to employ those categories of jobless people who are difficult to get to work as part of specific projects. What I wanted to say at the very end, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic came out, mentioned, among other things, some difficult conditions, when it comes to world banks that exist today in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say that it's very important that every country has its own development bank and its own state insurance company, to monitor money flows and save budget funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33625	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33626	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the expectations of agricultural producers in our country, at this very time when we are discussing the budget for next year, then, the expectations of various associations of agricultural producers, as well as a large number of scientific and professional workers dealing with agriculture and agricultural production, were that this budget would have, i.e. The government, above all, and through the adoption of the budget, in the light of the need to allocate far greater funds for agricultural production than it was set out last year, and that all the problems present in the area of agricultural production, particularly this year, will be respected through the low price of cereals, the high price of input. Also, through the fact that agriculture has brought an extremely high burden all these past years in terms of the country's economic and financial stability and, thanks to this agriculture alone, there has been no hunger and problem, more serious social problems. On the basis of the fact that agricultural production has also achieved an external trade surplus in the exchange of agricultural products on the world and European markets, it is estimated that this year the foreign trade surplus will be some 500 to 600 million dollars, while the participation of agricultural production and agricultural products in total exports to the world market is about 23%. Furthermore, it is also important to participate in GDP agriculture, it moves along with processing facilities and the processing industry around 20%. Finally, this report shows that gross social value has been achieved in the area of agricultural production in the last quarter of 3.2%, and this and such agricultural production has contributed to the failure of the social product not being more than it is objectively present this year. What I also want to point out, and what are the facts for all those involved in agricultural production, therefore, the primary agricultural producers and all others related to agricultural production, which is that agriculture has brought an exceptional burden in our country's transition process during this period. It is estimated that around 60,000 people remain unemployed in the area of agricultural production and that, after the textile industry, the largest number of unemployed remain in the area of agriculture. If it is added that it is also the owners, it is almost 200,000 people who are jobless and with no means of support. All that I've put out is exactly how facts and arguments, for all those in the area of agriculture, that the agrarian budget was supposed to be at least 5% to 6% of the total budget this year and that these facts and demands were respected by the creators of this budget would determine that the height of the agrarian budget should be at that level. Unfortunately, however, both last year and this year, the agrarian budget is lower than some previous years. It is precisely because of the public, because of these agricultural producers, and also because of you present people's MPs, that I will only remind you of the figures of the agrarian budget from 2007 until 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33627	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, before you take those numbers out, we have very dear guests at the gallery. Let's just say hello, and the time will be, of course, the count in which I speak. Dear People's MPs, let me inform you that our dear guests at the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly are students of secondary schools from Presevo and Bujanovac, accompanied by a visit to Belgrade, organised by the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. There are: Dejan Jaćimović, Dafina Aliju, Miljana Nikolic, Bujar Bajrami, Berim Hasani, Ivan Stojkovic, Milica Stošić, Milena Andrejevic, Ersana Kadrić, Mentor Zeciri, Miroslav Đikić, Nesibe Osmani, Sadrija Raimović, Abelan Zahiri, Rahimi Salihu, Zoran Lazic and Daniela Nenadić. We welcome dear guests. [[Applause]] Excuse me and continue. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33628	Madam President, I also welcome the guests and I'm pleased to meet you. I think it was rude of you to interrupt me during the debate, but here, I'll discuss it and, really, most warmly welcome the students here, but I hope I won't be distracted from what I wanted to say. Please return this time you've spent to the MP's group, which is about a minute and a half. As for the agrarian budget in 2007 it was 26 billion and 95 million. The total agrarian budget was then 595.5 billion dinars and the participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget was in the amount or percentages of 4.38%. In 2008, the agricultural budget was 27 billion 163 million, and the total budget was 654.4 billion and the participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget was 4.15%. In 2009, and I'm going to take that out after budget rebalances, the agricultural budget was 26 billion 690 million, and the total budget was 719 billion 871 million. The participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget was 3.66%, with this being slightly allocated to subsidies, only 15.9 billion, and the participation of these budgets was only 2.2% in the 2009 agricultural budget, which we also criticised. Finally, the agricultural budget for this year is 25 billion 621 million, and the total budget is 762.9 billion. The participation of the agrarian budget for 2010 in the total budget is 3.36%. You can see the absolute stagnation of the budget, especially in these last two years, and especially from previous years, such as in 2007 or 2006, I did not say that the participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget was 5.14%. Of course, farmers can't look forward to these facts at all, especially those who expected that what you said two years ago in the campaign – that the agricultural budget in this country will be 400m euros and that much will be able to finance and help in the way agricultural production and agriculture producers are helped in developed countries. I would like to point out only an example of Croatia, as neighbouring countries, that it stands out in the budget about 300 euros per hectare of arable land, that 15 euros was paid by a drowned pig during this year, by a breeder or 27 euros. Unlike Croatia, in our country compared to the overall situation in livestock, we imported pigs from Macedonia. According to data presented in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, about 60,000 cows were slaughtered this year. If their average price is about 2,000 euros, it is a pity for this country of about 120m euros, only because the people who entered the loans, who bought those cows to produce milk, with the price of milk on the market, with all the problems that follow that production, could not survive and were forced to send those throats to slaughter. Not to mention the situation with agricultural production in so-called. rural areas and marginal areas where care is total and where the devastation of our villages, where agriculture is shut down, agricultural land is shut down. I'll just say two or three words about the resources allocated to science. It is also inadmissible in relation to the strategy of science, which has been discussed this year and which is to be adopted, and that one policy has been advocated, to continue the minimum allocation in the budget for scientific research work, so that only 8.5 billion for all scientific research projects financed in our country are also allocated. It is inadmissible for a country that wants to keep young, educated people from going to school here and this kind of policy will lead, both to the collapse of agricultural production and scientific research. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33629	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33630	Dear Chairman, Ms. Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have a 2010 budget ahead of us and I want to start a parallel between the 2009 budget rebalances and this 2010 budget. The 2009 budget rebalance envisioned total revenues of 620 billion dinars, projected total revenues of 656 million for 2010, which means an increase of around 36 million. 720 billion are scheduled for 2009 and 762 billion for 2010, so the increase is 43 billion dinars. The redundancy deficit for 2009 is around 100 billion, with a deficit of 107 billion for 2010. So the deficit has increased exactly by 7 billion. What is also foreseen is for the 2009 deficit to be at 4% of the social product level, which is agreed with IMF representatives. To achieve all this, the finance ministry predicted that economic growth in 2010 would be 1.5% and inflation would be 6%. It's two things that are very important about the realization of the plot. In 2009, despite all those pessimistic forecasts that we will have a decline in social products, or production of about 6-7%, approximately, we will end up with a 3% drop. Inflation will eventually be about 7.5% this year. It is important now to say that the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, that the state of Serbia had a lower production decline in 2009, than some developed countries in our environment, such as Croatia, Hungary, Romania or Bulgaria. Romania, which is also a member of the EU, had a decrease in production during 2009 even close to 9%. I must remind you, when we talked at the end of 2008, when there was a decommissioning of foreign exchanges, or people were raising savings from banks because of the crisis that was coming, that many predicted that the banking system would fall, simply, that the government had made a decision, as well as the National Assembly, to ensure savings of up to 50,000 euros. At that time, the decision was made not to tax interest on savings in the period 2009 and it fully stabilised our banking system. The government had already come out in March with a new package of measures aimed at the economy. These were mostly measures related to the subsidisation of loans to businesses to improve liquidity. At that time, the government had its share in reducing the interest rate, the government invested some four billion dinars, and the banks delayed 80 billion dinars from their funds. To be honest, it wasn't the government who was going to get those loans that decided the business banks. Business banks followed their policy, followed the programmes and they were, and the government, on its part, subsidized interest, to make it more favourable, or lower, for the economy. On the other hand, the government also subsidized in March to start investment that is related to the economy. At that time, the government invested about five billion dinars, and the banks invested 12 billion dinars. When the government's active measures were taken last year through the National Employment Service, where three billion were invested, the start-up of credits and through the Development Fund, results occurred, and this means that the decline in production in the state of Serbia was 9% in 2009. It seems to me, if in 2010, the government runs an active policy that is similar to the 2009 policy, then forecasts that economic growth in 2010 will be 1.5% and inflation 6%, it seems realistic and I hope so. What is important in this budget is that around 1.4 billion dinars are foreseen for grants for greenfield investments. They are now important because during the crisis in 2009, the number of foreign investment in Serbia is reduced, but we are absolutely sure by defrosting the Transitional Trade Agreement that our country's credibility is increasing, so we need to be active, to help and to speed up the arrival of particularly greenfield investments, which means the arrival of economic operators to hire people. On the other hand, the government has also defined subsidies, about 17 billion dinars, which are related to the Fiat. It is something that our contractual obligation is, and the moment the Italian side invests 67% of its participation, it must be prepared by the state of Serbia and I don't see why it's something controversial. But there are other things that are important, which are – the replacement is old for the new ones, which are connected to the trucks, so the government will help in this way and the FAP from Priboj. This is related to rail vehicles, so we will help about eight companies operating rail vehicles, both freight wagons and passenger cars in the state of Serbia. This is where the start-up loans are hidden and there are places and for what we talked about, that we need export products, that we need to speed up the businesses that have exports and that is why there are also funds for the Export Insurance Agency. It is a very clear thing that all of this can happen by some criteria that the government itself will define, which are quite the same criteria that were last year and I hope it will make a full contribution. What is also important, in the following year, the government predicts some 3.7 billion for active employment measures, and these are measures for trainees, for self-employment, for severance, for work, for public works, so all that leads to the crisis having less effect on the dismissal of workers, that is, new employment of people in 2010, that we have less pressure in this domain. The government has to pay particular attention to the development of undeveloped municipalities, these are mostly small municipalities, and this year only for the economy, i.e. businessmen from these municipalities are foreseen 1.7 billion dinars, which means for favourable loans to be granted on the basis of a public competition to be called. We have one piece that was implemented last year, and this year it will be implemented through the Ministry of National Investment Plan. For these small underdeveloped municipalities, there are two billion, of those eight that are envisaged, because these municipalities have fewer projects and experts that can't run large projects, and they have to be helped, because without the development of infrastructure and without the economic development of these municipalities, I am sure that people will move out. Then, in this year, with these two measures, which will be combined, through public competition, I'm sure you'll make sure that the development of these municipalities is on a higher level than it's ever been before. Also, I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of National Investment Plan, which has around eight billion dinars, will be related to various infrastructures, most often, whether in industrial areas, whether in cities and municipalities, and all cities and municipalities in the course of 2009 until October 1st, had the opportunity to apply, to run their projects, to review these projects, whether they satisfy the project procedure, and beyond that I am absolutely sure that all ministries will give an assessment of these projects, because the realization will normally go through these ministries. It is not a matter to be decided by a minister or by a ministry. If you have a public competition, then the municipalities have run what they need over and what's best, then there are the ministries that will decide how much they fit their policies, and then it's the ministry that's the last one that will fit all of that into the funds that they have available, so I don't see any way of being a party distribution of funds, even that's impossible, because we really have to admit that the ministers in this government are from different parties. What is also important, I want to be absolutely sure that the Ministry of NIP and the Ministry will have a strong desire to help local self-governments to be those projects that are most important and for local self-government. I am absolutely safe and happy and I ask the Government, even as far as the projects from the city I come from, which is the city of Kraljevo, that the closed pool, which is our local self-government priority, will be the one that will support the ministry and government in 2009, which I think is good for the other municipalities that have applied. Infrastructure is an important thing, and the government is currently in the budget predicting some 7 billion that are foreseen directly for the budget, for the development of infrastructure. One of the priorities is Corridor 10 with the Belgrade Tour as an integral part with Corridor 10. Four billion dinars for Corridor 10 itself and for the Watchtower tunnel are scheduled. The second thing, the government has promised this year to start realising the highway "Belgrade – South Adriatic". Two billion dinars are provided for the construction of that highway. We can talk at this point whether it's little or much, there's so much space in this budget. I am absolutely sure that if the implementation of this project goes well, or well, more funds will be allocated next year. To be honest, on the one hand, do not complain too much about the Horgos highway – Požega and what was happening. We just need to remember, I once asked that question and I still didn't get an answer, in a concession that was signed, a kilometer of highway through Vojvodina was 2m euros. When the state announced public procurement, public procurement was 700,000 euros from the same company that was a concessionist and had an offer of 2m euros. What's the difference between a million and three hundred thousand euros? That's a big difference, and I wasn't sure that those who complain because that concession was broken, that they were thinking a lot about the welfare of that country, but about some other things. I'm absolutely sure, please, the minister who's here, that small local self-government will not be satisfied with the transfers to local self-government. They are at the level of those transfers that were rebalanced for 2009. I believe some savings in the 2010 budget will be found. It will have to be accounted for, because many local self-governments, I'm talking about small municipalities, their liquidity depends on how much they get from the state. If I say that some of the municipalities are in a blockade today, then we have to find ways to help these municipalities, maybe more than we did a few months ago, when 200 million dinars from the budget and even more, after all, of the additional funds, are divided by these municipalities. Looking at this whole budget, G17 plus thinks this is the only budget that's possible right now. We fully support it and hope that in the voting day and other parliamentary groups will support this budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33631	I thank Mr Nesovic. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the only one left is the finance minister, and then I am obliged to address you, the MPs of the SRS want to express their protest over the way this budget is adopted. You're the only one left. No Prime Minister, no other ministers, and I just want to talk about health. I am not giving criticisms from the mere criticism, but because of what I expected, seeing the discussion burst while the transfer of certain budget-related problems by certain ministers took place, that I would get some answers. I don't expect to get them, it's completely unrealistic. In addition to investing our protest over this procedure, as this most important law is passed in this assembly body, we will not vote for this budget because it is absolutely not good. Better economic players say it's unrealistic. I'm not going to go into the details of why and how. The assumptions he's resting on are unrealistic. You, in your memo you published in December, say there will be a growth rate of GDP of 1.5%. I hold in my hand, here, here, the report by the Treasury of Britain, where it says that this great economic power will have a lower gross national income this year than last year, but Serbia seems to be stronger economically and does not mind these economic hardships that the entire planet faces. If I go from just this memo of yours, I can see and the data is incorrect, you say, for example, that in 2008, our birth rate is, now I'm talking about it, minus 4.2. It's not based on statistical data, if you're looking at the Republic Bureau of Statistics, I think he's the only one who's moderate, that's 4.6. I've got that information right here. What kind of data do you use when you give these forecasts? It would be good for you to tell us. I'm giving you official information, which you can now find on the website of the Republic Institute. What's the problem with this budget when it comes to health care? Someone might have used a harsh word when he said that he was genocide in some of his segments. When it comes to health care, he absolutely is. Here's what you've allowed yourself to do. Let's start with that consumption that you in the Memorandum have indicated will be spent on Serbia's citizens' health, which is 5.5% of gross national income, when it comes to public funds and public revenues. The responsible government in the time of the economic crisis, with the pandemic of the flu that broke the world, does not treat the health budget that way. In the morning, I made clear to you the data of England, where there was an increase in health care in 2010 in their budget. Let me remind you, out of public costs, the highest health costs that stand out in England. If you take our environment – Slovenia, of the 7.8 billion budget that will be, 2.6 wastes on social protection and health care. The best was the Ministry of Social Security and Health, and you, you got from the IMF frameworks and you put health care there. I ask you - did the IMF tell you that you are jeopardising the health of Serbian citizens and that you are giving up 5.5 of the public incomes that you will spend on the health of Serbian citizens, and one England singles out 18% of the public revenues? Is that the way to Europe you're leading us? It is true that Croatia has also reduced the issue of health care, but also because of such members of the government sitting in their own government. What needs to be pointed out and what should be said immediately, if you look at the separations for the Ministry, you will see that 11 billion and 376 million stand out this year, and last year 12 million and 353 were singled out. What's that thing that's got eyes on? It is clear that the health ministry's budget will now provide 3 billion and 700m euros, and last year 6 billion and 800m. How come the funds are coming now? Here, credits. Seven billion and 600 million will come in loans. What are you doing? That's the problem of the Serbian state and the people you're leading, unfortunately. You spend money pushing credits. If you put credits in the infrastructure, in the opening of new factories, in new jobs, there would be another story. Here, in the case of health care, you can see how you spend your credits. I don't have time to go into details, but this is the essence that everyone needs to know. What's clearly visible here and transparently, you're giving away 7% of these assets that are given to the contracts for the work. What are those contracts for the Department's work? Answer me, so it's not just the people of the Ministry, what else is wrong? The number of administrative officials in the Ministry of Health is increasing, the Health Insurance Fund is increasing, and this is clearly seen from all of this. And then how do you talk about fighting a bureaucratic team that grows bigger and bigger? There's a lot to tell you. This is all bad and it can't be accepted. I can't go into a detailed analysis, I don't have enough time, because you decapitated this debate, you don't allow it to say what's true, but what you've done and what you think you've done, and you think you're wearing makeup and you've managed to hide corruption, corruption sources from every order of this law, and especially this segment of health care. As you took two euros more for vaccines and gave Miskovic, so in these items you called a transparent budget here, you also masked corruption. Thank you, I won't anymore, since my colleagues have a lot to tell you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33633	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33634	Madam President, Madam Minister, we can disagree on the budget-making process, we can disagree on the distribution, but I don't think we can disagree that in methodological and substantive terms this is one of the best budgets we've had so far. Of course I expect, I suppose, everyone, that he can be better from year to year. I think that we need, apart from these five ministries that worked on the programming budget, or presented their financial plans, that, according to the Budgetary System Act in the next few years, we will also get from the other ministries of the financial plan, i.e. that the full budget will be programmed and that, on that occasion, we will remove all the dilemmas in which the taxpayers' money is spent. What seems very important to me, about everything that follows this budget and which does not only contain distribution by division and review of all debts, seems to me to be some of the most interesting readings that we could have received in the debate on the budget and the Memorandum of Budget on Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2010, 2011 and 2012. This memorandum shows us the moment in which we are now in these economic and financial circumstances, what is waiting for us and what perspectives are, and I would say that based on everything that is in it, that these perspectives are not so bad, especially when we have in mind what is also in this memo, that countries are both in the environment and rich in Europe and the world. We had the opportunity to hear yesterday from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister, and both said the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget is a development budget. I'd add, in a sense, that it's also control. Why? I'll just give you a few facts. Except to confirm the thesis on the development budget, when I say, to confirm, I will only provide data on which ministries, which agencies, administrations, received the highest percentage of the increase, and in nominal terms a lot of money for 2010. The confirmation of this is an extremely high percentage of the increase when it comes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the NIP Ministry. Why do I add to that this control role that other bodies play? The highest percentage of the increase – Anti-Corruption Agency, Commissioner for Information Protection, other than the judicial authorities, State Audit Institute, Anti-Corruption Council. Of course I know, as other MPs and the public know, that some of these bodies have just begun to work, but, however, it encourages the state's willingness to provide significant percentage and nominal increases in resources with their full capacity for work. What's reduced? The Budget of the President of the Republic, the budget of the Ministry of Telecommunications, the Ministry of Faith, and some of its small contribution to reducing costs and spending on the side of the budget, we, or the National Assembly. Regardless of the claim that this budget is a developmental one, and I would add, as I said, that the budget specifically plans and particularly pays particular attention to those organisations and institutions, agencies and directorates that need to control it. This budget is still social. That's what the cost structure, additions and social security transfers are talking about, 30.58%, for other social protection 7.23%. And in this respect, it encourages, for example, the cost structure of public sector wages at 20.67 this year, to be planned at 17.30%. I would like to comment on the claim that was heard here, which refers to the funds allocated to positions that are more detailed to the government's special act. Of course, I have pointed out some of these positions both last and this year, but I must remind myself that all these positions predict that a detailed budget spending schedule is provided through public competitions, providing through one procedure that requires that, after the adoption of the budget, the exact amount of funds for these special government acts will be known, and then it will only be possible to call. For example, what I know for sure is the area of culture, how 985 million 153 thousand dinars will be deployed. These are the funds to be allocated under a special government act. Of course, it will be possible to schedule these funds only when a public competition for the financing of film production is launched, when a public competition for buying books for Serbian libraries is launched, when a public competition for projects in the fields of cultural heritage protection, etc. The same situation is also when it comes to the Ministry of Science and most, if not all, other ministries that have this item, i.e. the funds that are distributed by a special act of the Government, and I don't see that anything can be hidden, on the contrary, can only become public. And since I've already mentioned this position and culture, I have to say that, regardless of all the people who deal with culture are constantly saying that the funds for culture are little, culture has received 761 million dinars compared to 2009 for 2010. And that's not all you'd say in some commercial. Given that the Ministry of Culture's budget does not specify the resources of the National Investment Plan, because the total resources of the National Investment Plan will only be allocated to the rest ministries, it will be far more, or at least I hope, and I think that that will happen, given that there are some major investment projects in the area of culture, such as the Yugoslav Cinematheque, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the National Museum, part of the project in the area of protection of cultural goods, these projects will certainly not stop, and so we will draw closer to the figures from almost, and I believe that there will be a billion dinars more for culture in 2010 compared to 2009. So if we're going to do the percentages, it's going to be a little less than 1% for culture, which is always some dream percent for this area. Of course, I can't be quite pleased to say that 310 million is for 20, it was up to this year 24, now it's going to be 26 institutions of culture whose founder is the Republic. Meanwhile, two new Conservation Centres have been formed, film news has become an institution of culture. But I hope that in 2010 we will definitely resolve the status of 14 cultural institutions from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as that the status of media houses such as "Radio Yugoslavia", "Employment", "The Unity", "Panorama", "TANJUG" will definitely be resolved, and that this will open space for more, to say, more significant projects in the fields of culture and media. To conclude, I think we got a very good budget, that we got, not only the budget that is only possible in these circumstances, but that we got really one development budget and that, with control, it's already at work and it's shown the State Auditing Institution, it's public and completely legal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33635	I thank Mrs Mojovic. Mr. Zoran Mašić, advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33636	Madam President, I apologize, but a truly advertised member of your 27th custody on this House's work today, all the time during this House's work, we are here permanently exposed to cooling. I don't know if someone's deliberately playing air-conditioning, I just don't know what it's like in the lower part of the O.R., but up here it's getting insufferable cold or we're gonna have to wear pumpkins or the technical service can intervene to shut down at least this vent and not cool us down anymore. I'm asking that according to that you or the secretary, or I don't know who's in charge, do something, because we're really gonna get sick. You're a doctor, you know that refrigeration is a stressful situation that can be convenient if someone is inoculation with some virus to get sick sooner. I think we can do so much that the environment adapts to the conditions of this Parliament's work. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33637	Mr. Masic, I already gave the warrant and I was informed a few minutes ago. I really apologize to you for the conditions that disturb both your concentration and the real threat to your health. I just made you obviously another inconvenience by interrupting you, but it was announced that a group of young people would be only ten minutes, you could talk for longer, so it didn't work out that we didn't know who we were here. You know, just because of them, and also because of us MPs, I was obliged to interrupt you. As for the temperature in the O.R., they gave orders, ten minutes ago I was informed that it was really cold upstairs. I'm sorry. I hope that by the end of the session, it will be fixed perfectly well and that it will not happen in the future. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33638	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues, with this budget, I think that the majority of Serbian citizens will be cold all next year, because this should be the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but essentially it is a party redistribution, a redistribution within the ruling coalition. Unfortunately, that's right. Here's one piece of information, and I don't have time to present another, the budget for the State Auditing Institution, plus the budget for the Anti-Corruption Agency, plus the budget for the Anti-Corruption Council, is smaller than the budget of the Diaspora Ministry. That "a" shows that it is a party budget, "b" shows the relationship of this pro-European government or so on. pro-European governments towards institutions that need to introduce and teach us European values. There are 3,000 auditors in Poland, in Serbia four, so at about that pace we will arrive in Europe. As regards the development component, if a third of the total revenues of the State, donations, or grants, or aid to the PIO Fund, it is indeed one development. Just not a development that will prevent young people from leaving this country, which will help young people get jobs, but exactly the opposite. This is the pension budget. When LDP gets a chance to decide on this, this will be a real development budget, which means a third of the income goes into education and science and that is the only thing that can lead to development – investment in education is investment in the future. My God, the cost of the coalition is to invest in the past. We'll talk more about it when the amendments come. I know it will be difficult to accept our amendments, but we want to send a message – this is not the development budget. Unfortunately, this is not the budget that will lead us to Europe and unfortunately this government shows that it has no capacity to lead the country to candidacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33639	Mr. Bajram Omeragic is not here. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic, finance ministers of the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, in my deep confidence, this proposal for a budget is evidence of that. As my esteemed colleague Nenad Popovic said -- this is not a development budget, this is a budget that will further destroy Serbia. It has already been largely destroyed since you are the executive authority in this country, and in 2010 if this budget is implemented, the state will be in an even more difficult situation. To me, the motive for tonight's address, which is likely to be transferred near midnight, is that we have such a relationship as a country that wants to enter the EU according to the most important law of one year, and in the EU countries, in almost all EU countries when the government does not deliver the draft budget law within a legal deadline, there is no more government, no more parliament, elections are being discussed. That is how most EU member states are based, unfortunately not on us. Many laws do not respect this government either, the audit has proved. I will be motivated by what the Prime Minister and Minister Dragutinovic said yesterday in their address to this parliament. Less of you, about what you said I'll talk more about when there's an amendment debate. I will list only one thing you have said about this budget – the experience of EU countries, we are constantly calling on it, shows that the fight against corruption is possible to apply the new model of the state through the services of citizens and entrepreneurs in which it is involved. The fourth branch of the government, which is a network of independent regulatory and control bodies. Further in your address, you said that this draft 2010 budget would give the State Audit Institution 58.8% more funds than in 2009. When we read how much these funds are, it's 155 million dinars. When you add all this together, the State Audit Institute, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Council and everything else about what was said, these independent and regulatory bodies that are supposed to fight corruption have much less money all together than any ministry, say, the Diaspora Ministry. Not to mention how many contract services, etc., the spending foreseen for the representation of those millions of eaten kevapees found on only 27% of the controlled budget by the State Audit Authority. In this way, there is no way to control anything, nor will the State Auditing Institution function in a way that needs standards of well-developed or medium-developed European countries. I will tell you only one piece of information, he was fortunate to have this Parliament visit one of its delegations last year to the Commission for Control or the State Auditing Institution of a Centrally Developed State of the EU, Poland, which has 2,700 employees or in their Commission for Control. I repeat, 2,700, there are approximately three times as many voters as we do, so it's as if we have 900 employees, and we're nowhere near. It is not up to their government to decide what budget they will be and what salaries they will receive, but rather they themselves deliver to the government the figure they need, and it is the Minister of Finance's responsibility to sign up to the budget, so that the state audit institution, not only them, and the cabinet of the president of the state, the National Assembly in Poland, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman for children, the protector of the rights of citizens, so they all deliver their own expenses, and the Ministry of Finance is obliged to sign in the budget and deliver it to parliament in time. There's no sign of that here. But more interesting to me was the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister says this - the global financial and economic crisis has hit Serbia seriously and stopped its economic progress and further rise in the citizens' standard of living. Really? When we said that, a year and something, we were told to spread panic, to say things that do not stand, that Serbia will progress in this crisis and that this is a chance for Serbia to make further progress in its economy. The same government used to say that at the time. However, the prime minister said, the highest level of income, wages, pensions and other personal incomes was maintained. I don't know whose. When the government came to power, the average salary in Serbia was almost 400 euros, 390 euros, and now 310, 300 euros, something like that. Pensions were then and now 60% of the average salary, although it was promised to be 70%, of which there was nothing, and on that promise this government was formed, i.e. The citizens were cheated, the pensioners were cheated that way. It's not PUPS' fault, I see frequent attacks on PUPS, PUPS got maybe 100,000 votes from pensioners. It's the DS's fault right now, ZES. If we look at the structure of their votes, at least half a million pensioners voted and cheated, and exposed by the coalition. The current state owes, which is what concerns the most, so the public debt of the state is 10 billion euros, which is at an average salary of 300 euros in fact 1,350 euros per capita of our country. We have three hundred euros in average salaries, on the number of families, to be optimistic that one and a half salaries in the family, which is not, that comes about 5,000 euros per family. So 300 euros is the average salary and 5,000 euros is the debt. You, now, calculate, it means that one family in Serbia, in order for us to repay this debt, must not put anything in the mouth, the child must not put bread in the mouth, so that we can gather every family of 5,000 euros to pay back that debt, and the biggest borrowing has been made since this government. To this end, the draft budget envisions a deficit of 107 billion for next year. So, to spend more, the citizens know more than we're going to make in the budget. The consolidated deficit, which is not only the deficit of this budget, but also the province's, all local, public enterprises, is about a billion and 300m euros, 4%. That's how it was presented to us here. How will this deficit be covered? New commercial loans again, re-emissioning records of values or government records, next year. I have to tell you that this year it was done for a billion euros, the interest was 18 to 11.7%. It started at 18, and now it's about 11.7%. We have to pay about 120m euros for broadcasting only on interest this year, and I will tell you that for southern Serbia, it is the total budgets of municipalities in southern Serbia. So, the entire district of Jablanic, Pcinjski, and Toplicko, when you add, may come to 120m euros, and so many states pay, this government pays, only interest on what was owed in 2009. Then they say, "The development budget." There's nothing to do with the development budget. What was most interesting to me was what the Prime Minister said. It says this - real GDP growth is planned for 2010 by 1.5%. By the way, Montenegro has 1.5% this year. We have a decline, and they have growth, although it is an economic crisis, compared to the previous year. The increase in gross domestic products, so watch this now, he says that based on that growth in 2010, look at this sentence, it speaks of you, how you treat citizens and how you address Serbian citizens and what you think of them, he says – raising GDP means new jobs, growth in wages, pensions and other incomes. It's like he's in a campaign in 2008 in May. That's not true. That's not true? What's wrong? He's asking me, what's wrong with that? Not true, colleague, read the budget, on page 215, for the following year 1,823,000 are foreseen, which is now an estimate – projection of the basic macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Serbia employees and writes again1. Eight hundred and So there are no employees, no government predicts that anyone will be employed next year in 2010. Then watch the next one. There are employees, they'll be employees, but look where. Selected persons and public service employees – 136,179, and are expected to be 138,745 next year, for 2.566 more. How is it now that we need to reduce public spending, turns out to be more employees by 2,500? Where are they? So you're going to fire 7,000-8,000, and you're going to hire another 10,000. That's what these numbers say. What 10,000 new ones? Where? Party personnel and probably in a new administration in Vojvodina, etc. It will be paid by Serbian citizens again. But what's the most dangerous thing here? There are no new jobs for young people, all young people need to know that it's not here, that it's not foreseen at all. New debts that young people will have to pay back when they can barely find a job, but also pensioners. You know what, retired gentlemen, is being prepared here, in fact, through what's about to happen, because on April 1, 2011, until then, there's no increase in pensions, and there's a new system being talked about reforming the pension system? It will happen if this government remains in power, and that is what all pensioners should hear, pension system reform on the same principle as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There pensions are paid by certain coefficients, based only on payments to the pension fund during the month. What is paid this month, in other words, is paid as a pension next month by the coefficients, and we currently have half the pensions as a budget, and half the pension is a fund, which means that pensions under that system will be twice as much as now. That's what's coming, and that's what's the biggest scam. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33641	National MP Sasa Dujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33642	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as is the situation in which the Republic of Serbia's economy, largely depends on the realisation of the budget, the relationship with social contributions from the 2010 budget can be seen as a satisfactory solution, despite the situation in which our society is in general. The problem of social requirements and their implementation from the budget depends on economic growth. In this regard, we expect economic subsidies, partly through development projects, to find their way to citizens who are now using social benefits for their life and existential problems. It is necessary to enable young people and other working categories of unemployed citizens to obtain income through their own work, not to stand on the counters of national employment services. We are sure that the Government will, in accordance with the budget and the economic development programme, facilitate employment and act stimulatingly to create new jobs. This job needs to be done through the engagement of a number of state institutions and bodies. Social policy can not only be the task of one ministry, but of the entire government and all the ministries and other state institutions. The 2010 budget provides for funds for fighting and disability protection. This kind of giving follows the fate of the state budget and economic development. Certain claims from our citizens in this area, I mean war reserves, they are not budgeted for 2010, which I do not think is the best solution, but in the case of a major economic crisis and the rise of our Serbian, especially this economy, will wait for better times and some new legal solutions. In this, as in many other cases, the state needs partners, because in this respect we have also tabled an amendment proposing to respect the partnership relationship in this area with the non-governmental sector, and in order to deal more effectively with the problems faced by the users of this budget. At the end of all that has been said, only one conclusion can be concluded that the draft budget is a compromise of one economic reality and a great need for users. The SPS - JS Parliament Club will support the draft budget in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33643	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33644	Thank you. I'm going to make some more details, but right now, I'm going to be very specific about this budget's proposal and I can't join those who praise it for the transparency or for the solutions that are contained in it. However, this budget is also, in some ways, the continuation of one poor consumption model of economic growth that we have been applying for nine years, based on the growth of retail trade, telecommunications and construction, and what we are all fundamentally agreeing with, but you who are able to translate it into laws, into fiscal incentives, do not work, and this is that we have economic growth based on the development of industry, agricultural and export sectors. What particularly bothers me, I think you've been able, Madam Minister, to run, I know you'll never have the air support of the rest of the government, but the control of the costs of public finances is still at the media level and at the level of public pressure to have affairs that reach the media clearing. I will indeed ask everyone to support the report of the State Auditing Institution as one institutionalized system of public finances control that we all have to advocate. Again, each of us was once in power, today is, will be tomorrow. As long as we last in power, each of us is a longer citizen who is interested in his government and government spending their resources solely for purposes that are truly justified. What I think is your restriction was, on the one hand, a monetary policy that, with its targeted inflation and a stable course, as objectives for itself, not by encouraging employment, was not much help. The National Bank is operating in a building owned by the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank is someone who needs the Republic to pay interest on the funds it holds and to be a symbol of the hand that supports and directs you, and when you look at the Report, the State Auditing Institution can see that, in the case of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank, at least two problems are seen: this, that there is no support in monetary policy, and that the relations of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank are literally, at the end of the year, by contract, which covered the year at the end, paid to you, or you are counting interest on foreign and dinar funds. Would any financial inspector in someone controlled recognize a contract that was concluded in 31.12.2008 and refer to the whole of 2008, for example? Not to mention, that one of my colleagues is not offended, the 21st side of the Report – the revenues from the dividends of the Republic of Serbia's budget are talking about how and how much the Republic of Serbia charges from its public enterprises, again for Ripley's column, only eight public enterprises paid the government dividend, and the government is the founder, even if, on the National Bank's website, there are over 500 of them, part of which is at the level of local self-government, but they could have been found through a consolidated report, because we know how this fits here. What is controversial, I say, was your task, and you did not engage in control, I do not believe that citizens will be able to believe when I tell them now that the Republic of Serbia in its business books is asking for as many dividends from public enterprises as they pay it. It's like what I was saying about indirect users and their own incomes. They show in the budget that they've only earned what they can document you with accounts that they've spent. Therefore, the public enterprises established by the Republic of Serbia are carrying out actions of general interest, do not show for them claims from dividends, but when they transfer you, only then form their obligation to you and only that appears in the books. So back in the few years, we've been saying that this country has no record of property, obligations, flows, claims based on financial resources, and, here, in the most drastic way, this report has shown itself. The interesting thing is that of all those agencies and para-state bodies, which we all talk about in similar ways, in 2008, they paid dividends, i.e. income of only 135,397,000 dinars, mostly central registers, deposits and clearing records of value is 100,000 out of these 90,000,000, out of these 135,000. This means that two or three users paid what they should all have, and we know that there are over a hundred of them and that they all charge so high service costs and that you don't even have them on the list. And when we passed the Budgetary System Act, it's enough, Madam Minister, that you make a new list of beneficiaries of the budget, and they would be under your control and insight. One colleague bothered today that we had made a request to cut the costs of financing political parties. The savings were exactly as much as all the agencies were paying you in 2008. Someone doesn't mind that they're completely unwarranted with 50 billion dinars of subsidies for which there are no laws, for which we don't have any effects, for which there are often illegal write-offs, but he doesn't mind that someone who has MPs here gets financed in this way and still bothers him if he proposes savings in that sense. What's very interesting, Madam Minister, don't give me the right if I'm wrong, the collection of dividends, based on the ownership of the Republic of Serbia in the capital of the banks for 2008, and the only sector that made revenue and who, under excuse or for the reason of the subsidies and liquidity of the state, was the banking sector, which had jobs, clients, whom the government touched the difference in interest and what's most interesting, for which I'm asking you to deny me, is that for this bank, which absolutely didn't pay you a dividend in 2008. Now we seem to be changing that law on taking over stock companies, taking a break from the fact that when the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development pays its part of the role, we keep ourselves from coming out of this property. Besides, we'll talk about that law. So it's disputed that someone who's clearly positive in the business of which we own, in part, has not paid us a dinar dividend. The question is, who's the government's representative there on the board of directors, do you expect them to do that, ask for it, do not do it, do not do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it. It's a matter of law, and that's why I insist. What is very problematic is that the system of non-productive subsidies is retained. There is no one in the economy who understands, who can say that tourism is the pregnant branch, where these subsidies are productive. I don't think of accusing the Development Fund, which, in the part of my business, places it where it can and where it is asked, but that you are also compromising the Fund for Development by directing certain loans through it, and, after the decision and resolution of the Minister for Regional Development, when it is found in the World Bank, it is said that only 10% of these and so-called funds, especially those companies that you are preparing for restructuring, are not coming back to think that the Development Fund is not doing its job properly, I wouldn't want to do it in any way. I just want to mention another interesting thing that's in particular in those transitional and final provisions, which is that you're asking the Parliament for authority. Let me ask – how dare you? This is as gentle as I can tell you, that you are issuing a guarantee to enter into the 100m-euro guarantee process, and for the purpose of ensuring financial stability, financing or refinance the liquidity of legal persons, i.e. preventing damages, etc. Okay to prevent damage, but where do you get the right to go beyond all loans, loans, seek to refinance the liquidity of some legal entities. This budget is full of exceptions, other purposes, some and others, and that's unacceptable, and that's why we can't vote for it in our sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33645	National MP Sasa Milenic has a word. I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am inclined to the Budget Law, to see, metaphorically, as the roof law of the overall policy that the government will lead in the year for which the budget is being adopted. How this country's policy, of course, is run unequivocally by the government, and for this it corresponds directly to the elected representatives of the citizens, i.e. the National Assembly, as the highest representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not without a sense of personal responsibility, and primarily from the point of view of the assembly majority, I want to talk about this draft budget law for 2010. Expressing, of course, the main views of my party, Together for the Shumadi, as well as the coalition partner, therefore, the integral parliamentary group G17 plus. With the ambition to make this exposure more picturesque, and maybe it gets interesting if it's not too pretentious, I'd start with a little game of detection. In a description full of recognition. In modern Europe, there is a small country, with a population corresponding to, say, one medium, among the major cities of the world, which is in the form of the republic's rule, by the socio-political arrangement of democracy, which operates with a budget with a budget deficit of not more than 3% of gross social product, which, if the ministries are identified resolutely with the actions they cover, is convincingly the most money allocated to education. The country's respectable military or defence ministry has almost half the budget plans, rather than the Ministry of Education. Budget, the very text of the draft budget law in the country is one extremely systematic, methodically written book of over a thousand pages, and more than a hundred pages of that book are only dedicated to financial plans for health affairs. Not to mention the details, can we guess which state it's about? Of course, we are simply here to recognize that this is about our country, about the Republic of Serbia. But I'm not inclined to believe, so all the data that you've given is simply available, verifiable and accurate. I'm not inclined to believe that most of the citizens who listen to this, too, succeed in this description to recognize our country. For what? Why is our public prone to misjudge the effects of our own country? Why are we inclined to demean the reach of our own democracy? That question can be asked differently. Why does this, in a momentary decry, describe the budget in total change when zooming in and looking at it in the grand scheme? It is doubtless true that no other activity gets more, resortly by the ministries, seen by education, but we hear criticism that it is simply not enough in the overall mass for the desired development of education systems. Even, in fact, ambitions go down when we see that the lion's share of that education budget is actually going to fund the employee's income in education. Why is the government in a country of social economic opportunities expected to be a superman? Why is it that, for the sake of business, all eyes are on the government? Why is it so hard to say that jobs and their performance are primarily suited to those who lead them, and government and politics provide an environment in which these jobs could be successful. He doesn't deal with the government's activities, and the development of production. It is the responsibility of other sectors of society entirely. In fact, to continue this series of why it seems that, while respecting your time, it will be simpler to say that it is inappropriate to expect a far more developed country's budget in the text of the 2010 draft law on the Serbian budget. He is primarily limited by, not good policy, not good government intentions, he is limited by the circle of domestic economy and the opportunities that can be planned in this country. This overlap is largely derived from the general characteristics of society and the overall social traffic in which business activities take place. It seems that the prerequisite for each development is a serious face-to-face with these characteristics, with the fact that it is a failed society that is tremendously slow to develop and progress, and that it is primarily the task of every more ambitious budget to encourage the development of this community in which more intensive economic development and then budgetary policy that meets the standards of where expectations come from. The simplest thing to say is, the most significant contribution, firstly, is to remove prejudice and diverge ideological nebulaes in which everyday life is designed. A small man and from whom the misjudges mentioned, at first, with questions – why. We should simply, with enough courage, say that we have rightly chosen, not authoritarian, but a democratic political environment in which we want to raise generations that come, principles of liberalism, and not a conducting economy. That, among other things, means where the state does not have the right to oversee the life of an individual it is pointless to expect responsibility for the personal happiness of each of them, responsibility in the free game of ability for their own happiness is primarily borne by each of us individually. The delusions that should also be removed, of course, can be driven by economic measures and we see it as present in this budget. For each commendation, the budget plans to encourage the partnership of the private and public sectors. It is at the national level of the most significant investment "Fiat" in Kragujevac. The planned funds by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which, as Mr Senic explained in the opening statement, go contrary to some interpretations that can be heard these days, always a dinar on two foreign investors' dinars. Investments, which are part of the Fiat programme, which must be implemented in infrastructure, are also an incentive measure. One of the encouraging measures that I want to talk about on behalf of my party "Together for Shumadi" and the G17 Group of MPs plus, above all, is the relationship to the subject of fiscal property decentralisation and fostering decentralisation in general. It is certainly a good thing that for 2010 there is no plan to reduce the transfer funds for local self-government. The fact, however, is that the total volume of transfers to lower levels of government, including the autonomous province, is still evident in the single-digit budget. What is a significant contribution, however, is not only to monitor the transfer of local self-government, but to the primary area of property decentralisation. I also use this as an opportunity for Mrs. Dragutinović to be here with us, to remind us that there is a draft of the Law on Public Property on the Ministry's website. I would like to remind you that the pressure coming from local self-government to pass a law on the property of local self-government is almost a decade long, that during the time Mr. Stevanovic chaired the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, a single text of the Law on the property of local self-government was established and that the bill entered into the assembly procedure, but with agreement with the Government, he was not put on the agenda within that scheduled period, but went to the archive after the expiry of that deadline, because it was established that the advantage was given to the Constitution, and only when constitutional assumptions were provided, then this aspect of property decentralisation would be enforceable. For years, we have a constitution that guarantees local self-government the right to property. However, the law that would settle this issue is still not in the congregation procedure. I say, on the website of the Ministry of Finance, there is a law that not only treats the property of cities and municipalities, but the total public property, therefore, both state and province, and also local self-government, and I expect that it will soon be in the assembly procedure and at the same time announce that, if this expectation is too falsified, more precisely, we will not allow too much to falsify, certainly as a parliamentary group, we will launch an initiative to get ahead of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. Why? Because freedom for Serbia is impossible without true decentralisation, and we will add regional arrangements. They immediately appear, to the meaning of the word "region", to God's frightened sovereigns with accusations – you want to separate yourself from the state. Our answer is always the same – why are you designing your motives in us? Perhaps the central authorities before the term "region" have the need for such a form of constitution to be thrown out of the country, it may have happened already, but the interest of regionalists is exactly the opposite, not to go from the state, according to Professor Jovan Zivkovic of Nis, but rather the opposite – to increase the level of supervision and influence on central government in Serbia. Hence, the entire sovereign quasiology seems to be ahead of the business of fiscal property decentralisation, which is ahead, still has to give way to the encouragement of an ordinary small citizen living in substandard conditions, with traits that are not overly stimulating for the idea of development. In recent months, I have been pedantic about the subject of statistics and average values and, for example, I have found that the average citizen of Serbia, not just any concrete, but a fictitious average citizen, really shows the characteristics that make the development subject somewhat flaunted. It's a man who's got eight grades of elementary school, he may have enrolled in high school, it's not safe yet, but he certainly didn't. It is not an old man from some earlier times, as the popular story is that we are an old nation, we do not belong anywhere near the top of the oldest nations in Europe or the world, but it is 41 years old. It's a man who's, for example, younger than me, but has serious problems with functional literacy. For example, one study shows that there are serious problems that the text he heard... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... or in information form, for a period of five minutes, reproduces after half an hour, and especially in writing, without damage. To encourage this man and to open up real perspectives of progress, we must take care of the mentioned components that I have praised, as well as the inevitability and obligation of decentralisation of overall life in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33647	I thank Mr. Milenic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us, for the SRS, a very important law, and this is the draft budget bill for 2010. I think it's the most important law to be passed in such a tall home. In this draft budget law, Serbia's government has made sure to single out and put into circulation, somewhere, 740 billion dinars, so that a state called Serbia can function. In some of our statements and statements by the SRS Parliamentary Group, we suggested that there must be an increase in the agrarian budget. I'm talking about division 16, and it's about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and we asked that the optimal amount to be allocated to agrarian be 6% of the national budget. When we said that, we meant it, and we felt that some minimum for the functioning of Serbian agriculture couldn't go below 5%. However, you did not seem to want to understand, as well as to see, that this is one proposal for an agrarian budget that will not bring about agriculture and Serbia's agrarian well. But then you must replace everything below 5%, until Serbia has gained EU candidate status, as you already want by some giant step to arrive as soon as possible, although Serbia is geographically in that Europe. To move on to division 16, which is very important. You've done your best in the government, you, Madam Finance Minister Dragutinovic, to single out 25 billion 621 million 810,000 for agriculture, which is when it's converted into percentages and looking back in 2009. In 2008, this isn't even 4%. We had our hopes set, i.e. Registered agricultural holdings, right in the government of Serbia, thinking you'll take a little care of how much you spend on Serbian agrarian. But it didn't seem to work out for you, and you didn't want to understand. Of those 25 billion, in your opinion, for the subsidies that matter, for this fallen agrarian is 15 billion and 405 million or about 500 billion less than the last one, i.e. last year. You haven't increased it yet, you've reduced it yet. So these subsidies, possibly made by the Ministry of Agriculture according to registered agricultural holdings, will be a social programme. Why am I saying this? Unfortunately, heavy hearts are mentioned here in Croatia, but I have to say that a country that is in a hurry to Europe, stands out 300 euros for wartime subsidies or an example of a pig, 15 euros, a 27-euro breeder, and our producer or registered agricultural land has 12,000 dinars. The Ministry of Agriculture has made an effort to build up the Agrarian Payments Administration. I ask you, Mrs Dragutinović, in which state is the Agency for Payments outside the seat of the Ministry of Agriculture? Give me a country in Europe or in our environment that the Agrarian Payments Authority is located outside the Ministry of Agriculture. Even so, it's been suggested in Capco. Someone, I hope, will answer me, even through a parliamentary question. The 2009 subsidies received only 80,000 registered agricultural holdings, with a total of 300,000 registered in Serbia. What about the 280,000 registered agricultural holdings that didn't get subsidies? That's what the Minister of Agriculture did, a professional peasant and unprofessional. Professional peasants have 80,000, and out of the registered 360, there are 280,000 that have been registered and have not received subsidies, because they work in factories, such as "1. May" from Lapov or work in factories where they have only 200 euros in salary, and they have to deal with what their parents left behind, and they left them the country. It's what they had and what they could leave their children and they continue that tradition. So 280,000 registered agricultural holdings were left without subsidies. This is true. It was also confirmed by Agriculture Minister Milovanovic's assistant. Let me just add for subsidies, let's say, in Europe of the total European budget – 54% goes for agriculture. Let's go back, how do these subsidies that weren't given to those 280 thousand registered owners affect this autumn's wheat crop in 2009? Over 200,000 hectares weren't planted based on last year, and that hasn't happened in the last 50 years. In the 2009 spring term, as praised as these loans are, two banks only approved loans. In 2009, less than 50% of tractors were purchased and 50% less combined, regardless of taking short-term loans, as you boast, worth 38m euros. Why? Because those tractors are expensive, because they're imported, because the interest is big. It's a statistic you can't escape from. That's what leads to the twilight of the agrarian. Speaking of wheat, is it possible that Iran is asking Serbia to buy 300,000 tons of wheat, and we don't? The Committee on Agriculture has been confirmed. How can we not boast that we have a million and 800,000 tons stored? How is it possible that this same Iran and Egypt are again asking us to import "baby buffet" or "young meat", and they cannot agree in the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agriculture. These are facts presented by doctors, professors, agro-economists, when we invite them to the Committee on Agriculture, they present some facts. Why don't we have 300,000 tons? Because we have a gray economy, because we have a trade-processing lobby or tycoons. And now let's do one analysis, what I've already said on several occasions, and I've been getting warnings, the Ministry has, to meet registered agricultural holdings, subsidized 100,000 tons of artificial fertilizer, at a price of 10,000 dinars per tonne. It is very interesting that the "Fertil" fertilizer factory owner Victoria Group, Stanko Popovic and Ruzica Djindjic got it. Let me go, slowly, in turn, says this - the price of the regressed mixed fertilizer ''NPK 15/15/15', the manufacturer 'Fertil', Bačka Palanka is 23,138 dinar per tonne and the same mixed fertilizer manufacturer 'Azohem', Saturday 22,980 dinar per tonne, without VAT. The same formulation of NPK fertilisers, which is not regressed by the state, is sold at the price of 24 thousand, Russian, and domestic, 22,500 dinars per tonne, excluding VAT, seller "Agrooprema" Subotica. Even so, we import, so we say, INA-Kutina, sales, Croatian, unregressed complex NPK 15/15/15, at a price of 26.300 dinars per tonne, without VAT. In conditions where the regress is a fertilizer of 10,000 tonnes and when those prices are formed without a regression on the free market, the question of the justification of the regression, i.e. the spending of budgets, is raised in this way. Practically, the situation as it was in the autumn of 2008, when the regressed supply of 50,000 tonnes of fertilisers was regressed at a rate of 20,000 dinar per tonne, and following an increase in the sale of regressed fertilisers, market prices were formed at the level of the price of regressed fertilizer. A better solution would certainly be to regress the purchase of fertilisers to the buyer, or registered land. According to our findings, there are requirements for some transporters, or the importer of fertilisers, to examine all the circumstances under which such measures are carried out, because they believe that they are at risk of being in an even position on the market. This is an argument more that the regress is paid directly to registered owners who bought fertilizer on the free market. Regarding the mineral fertiliser market, it is interesting to mention that the average factory prices at the factory, whose fertilizer is regressed, are 38,000 tonnes, for NPK 15/15/15, "Fertil", "Azohel", as shown by the "STIPS" site of the Republic of Serbia. If you do not trust the People's Messenger, Milorad Kristin, look at the website. On the site "STIPS" the prices of imported complex NPK fertilisers and INA-Kutina are shown to be double the price of fertilizer, which was obtained during work on this material by the Office of the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. Although the authors of the "STIPS" site have been warned in writing that the official system of measures knows only kilograms or tonnes as units of measure, the price of fertilizer continues to be expressed in a sack or 50kg, which creates a confusion over the site. On this site, owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, there are extremely large differences in the prices of fertilisers, the same formulations, the same manufacturer, even up to 12,000 tonnes of the price of "NPK 15/15/15" of the producer "Fertil" in Sremska Mitrovica is 1,250 dinars of sack, and in Loznica 1,850 dinars of sack, which additionally increases the real prices of fertilizers. The price difference for a 25-ton vehicle, which is common in transport, is 300,000 dinars, as if being brought in from Norway. The Stock Reserve Directorate began the negotiation of natural commodity exchanges of 25,000 tonnes of mixed NPK fertilisers for autumn wheat crops in 2009, in the parity of 2.61kg of wheat for one kilogram of fertilizer. Recalculated over the current price of nine dinar wheat per kilogram, this fertilizer is sold per day of 23,410 dinars – tonnes, all without VAT. It is slightly more expensive than the price of mixed NPK fertilisers domestic production, on the free market. If the calculation used the price of wheat of 13 dinars kg, how much did the Directorate pay, 65,714 tonnes at the time of harvest, the price of fertilizer would be 33,930 dinars of tonnes. This is just one of the indicators. I'm sorry it's like this. It says one country, two systems. We have a Fund for the Development of Serbia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, but what I would say is very important, since 2002, national laboratories have been established. A lot of money has been spent, do you know how much and for what purpose, and so far we haven't been able to start any labs? Is it true that the largest laboratory analysis for the needs of the General Inspectorate is carried out in the Soya-protein laboratory, the figures of several million euros are mentioned, as long as they have arrived with the equipment of a bank of genes in which there should have been a national laboratory and how much money from the donation has been spent on this equipment so far? It can be assumed that someone is obstructing the establishment of national laboratories, because this way of work is personally more worth it. I'd end up with one finding. What is a sustainable land, is that where the host still hasn't hanged himself because of the economic position that agricultural policymakers have brought him into? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33649	Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33650	I'm reporting on the basis of Articles 101 and 104, and I don't know which time, in a series, that the name of the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's wife connects with some companies with which it has absolutely nothing to do with. I think you know that very well. I think it's intent, connecting her name to those groups, to put her in a negative context. I'm not going into whether the information on this company is correct or not, whether there are malfeasances or not, but it's inadmissible that in this context, by connecting the wife of the murdered prime minister, you put her in such a context. Please don't do this anymore. You have the right to express your opinion on whether or not a company abuses something, but you have no right to have someone who can't answer you here connect to a company that has absolutely nothing to do with it. I ask you not to do so in the future, for I will ask that according to the Rules of Procedure, one who brings out the truth about the private life of men be punished. That's punishable by our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33651	Mrs. Veronica Radeta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33652	Madam President, I think you've now violated the Rules of Procedure for allowing Mrs. Nadia Kolundji to replicate her colleague, Milorad Krstin. In our Rules of Procedure, there is no mention of a name or a last name. Neither the DS nor its president is mentioned, nor is the late prime minister mentioned. Indeed, Ruzica Djindjic is the name and last name, a woman everyone can mention in a context where he thinks he has the right basis. If the data is not accurate, there are also competent services that account for it. It seems to me that last time, Mrs Comic said that the speech of the MPs mentioned in the same context would be forwarded by Mrs Ruzica Djindjic to the public prosecutor, so here, be it your choice or yours, anyway. It's inadmissible, what does that mean, now any name or name here mentions, you're letting someone who thinks they have a basis for replicating it, to allow a replica? Well, then why isn't someone replicating because this other name was mentioned in the Victoria Group? There really is no basis in our Rules of Procedure. I can understand that Mrs. Kolundzija is personally, I don't know, whether she's hurt, offended, maybe she's upset that Ruzica Djindjic is a member of this group Victoria, but it's someone her intimate experience that has really nothing to do with this parliament's work. The MP group and any party colleague, Krstin, did not mention at all, especially in a negative context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33653	Mrs Radeta, Article 104, paragraph 3 says that it is not permitted to use offensive expressions or to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. So, both insult and absolute talk of a person who symbolizes in absolute terms the words of the Democratic Party's value. That's quite clear to you. [[Applause]] I don't think there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I think I've quite objectively assessed that Mrs. Kolundjia had a basis for reporting and that I gave her the floor. I don't think so. ) Please, it is even offensive expressions related to private positions and other persons, not just us MPs here. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: I do not think so and ask the Assembly to declare this in the day of the vote.) In the day of the vote, we will declare ourselves. The word is Mr. Zoran Kasalovic. Mr. Krstin, you have no basis for replication, Mrs. Radeta spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group. I think we're clear. She spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I seek the word of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33654	So, Madam President, if you've given me your word in the Rules of Procedure, or to replicate on behalf of the MP's group, then you've violated the Rules of Procedure. I'm not the boss, I'm not the deputy head of the parliamentary group, and I'm not on these points and I'm not an authorised representative. So I could only speak in the Rules of Procedure and I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. If you didn't give me the word in the Rules of Procedure, but you gave me the line then you broke the Rules of Procedure, not by my will, because I didn't ask for it. If you gave me your word in the Rules of Procedure, then there is absolutely the right of fellow Christians to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33655	I estimate there's no basis for replication. Mr. Zoran Kasalovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33656	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the conditions of maximum-level demands for the financial resources of budget users and the conditions of the devastating effects of the global financial crisis, the proponent has indeed faced a major challenge for the real-life budget to design an economic policy that will offer the best possible answers. It seems to me that she has succeeded, above all, by taking very brave moves and in one part politically unpopular in order to create a cheaper state through austerity measures, with the goal of bringing one inherited high level of public spending to an optimal level. In that sense, therefore, there are frozen salaries, pensions and transfers. On the other hand, there are no new taxes and increases in tax rates, new burdens on businesses, and I appreciate that this is a good government move, unlike having a lot of examples that some countries in our environment have reached such solutions. The government expects, above all, an improved inflow of income with a desire to increase financial discipline and with one consistent fight against corruption and crime, in one respect with effective actions by the interior ministry, a more regular inflow of income. If that were the case, it can also be seen in this budget proposal that this year, the projected funds for the Anti-Corruption and Crime Agency amount to 160 million dinars, unlike last year's nine million, is an impressive index of 1.776, and also in the budget proposal for this year, it provides for 155 million dinars for the State Auditing Institution, unlike last year's ninety-eight million dinars, which makes up the index, 158.6 per cent. It should not be ignored here that this government has done much and that it is the right government that has really made it possible to start the work of the State Auditing Institution and the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, above all, considered to be a very important start of the work of the State Auditing Institution towards the improvement of public finances that should lead to the legal spending of the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I appreciate that the findings of the State Auditing Institutions will indeed go in the direction of introducing internal control and internal audit among all users, where the law provides, and that prices are found by establishing internal control and revision of a number of irregularities which have already been detected at the very beginning and removed. What is important is to say that the basic provisions of this budget are in line with the IMF, and with the good news and the defrosting of the Trade Agreement with the EU will contribute to the need for macro-economic stability and one necessary certainty for investing in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and this will certainly be crucial for achieving GDP growth of the planned and projected 1.5%, which is a good basis for creating new jobs, growth in wages and pensions. That's one perspective you can clearly see. When we mention pensions and pensioners, I would like to say, not to argue that reform of the pension system is absolutely necessary, I appreciate and I want to say that the SPS-JS MPs really support the government's definition that, even at such a difficult time, it defines the sufficient amount of funding to enable pensioners to have the right to live a decent life and to exercise their rights, regardless of some political attitudes which are put forward today in terms of their personal attitudes, relations with European integration, NATO. We appreciate that every citizen deserves special attention and the right to live. With the intensities of this budget to preserve certain social benefits and priorities, such as Corridor 10 and subsidies in agriculture, one development component of this budget is seen. What I would like to say at the very end, I would like to point out, as it is seen, briefly in one paragraph of the Memorandum, is that the Government is no longer ready to move at any cost to privatise our public enterprises to patch up the gaps in the budget and the government's position to require a single state-owned insurance house, such as "Dunav", and that even in the sense that privatisation is needed, that a favourable market moment will wait. We appreciate that with one possibility to create a development bank in the coming period and with this state-owned insurance house that this will be a good basis for the development of the Republic of Serbia. As this draft budget represents one step forward and this is, it can be said, a zero budget that will represent a significant shift in the area of public finances, we believe that this budget should be supported and the SPS will in principle support this budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33657	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33658	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little time, and that means that perhaps you were wrong when you rejected the opposition's proposal to make this law, which, may I be forgiven for comparison, almost represents a bishop amongst the laws we are making, we are not discussing in double time. In fact, the law would be said of much less value, the electoral list and much less important we talked about in the same full time as five hours. In the end, what to say is that out of last night's views and views and views, both prime ministers and prime ministers, we get one level of information about the state of the economy as it is in Serbia, about its further economic development, its development perspective. When we read the budget, then, fortunately, we can see more objective information, because some details couldn't hide there, and when we live a real life we're fully aware that this will not be a sustainable story and as it is written to us citizens, for understandable reasons, and they didn't want to or couldn't tell it openly. We are aware that in the messages in the draft budget for this year, where some things are really expected of macroeconomic stability, financial stability, economic recovery, but also of a very interesting structural reform. I will return to what I think will not be sustainable, and as far as macroeconomic stability is concerned, it is clear that the basic criteria that need to be brought about will not be sustainable and will not be as they would lead to it. Of course, it does not account for 1.5% of GDP growth, as it would mean a continuous increase in agricultural production, a continuous increase in employment, which would not be. According to the IMF in a year or two, we can't hire more than 30,000 people, it's a mental noun for this moment. We're firing people on the orders of the same firm. We won't even have the opportunity to achieve more significant monetary stability, etc. The measures proposed by the Government as economic measures and monetary policy measures implemented by the National Bank are often in disorientation, in dissent, often harsh tones by ministers and governors, but we can only register and show some things. As regards these key points of the proposal, the three points foreseen under the 2010 policy measure – structural reforms, of course you associate them needlessly with the intention of going to Europe. I don't know why that binding sentence was necessary, the intention is completely legitimate and the question remains how are we going to get in there with 4,000 euros of gross social product? That's not some team that's leading us, with the fact that our budget is assessed as a developmental social. I don't know if it's a cartoon or if it's an "i" ally. If it's developmental and social, maybe some logic would make sense. If it's development-social, it can only mean that we're going to develop more and more social needs, that we're going towards more and more social demand. It doesn't need a stronger example than the fact that there are 30 - 40, or 10 – 20, however, daily strikes, TV tells us two or three, most often fatal, and one important mechanism for regulating the problem of social nature, what kind of strikes in themselves are not mentioned in the programme of government measures. Why isn't he, I don't know, and he's called the ministerial teams, the ministerial troikas. There's a minister first. It's funny that the police minister goes there and his deputy, really vaguely, or suggests that when the Minister of Economy comes, he says -- we have, we have, it's some Misa, Alpha or Omega, we know, he's guilty, he could do it. In what normal state would the minister enter private property of some owner and say that he has money, to force workers on him, and then commits local self-government that she should pay for the losses of the railroad? That's a big disorientation. If with such a degree of focus on the obvious problem, which exists in a small town in Serbia, you think you can solve a global problem regarding Serbia and its position in Europe and steps further, the question is how far we will go and how far away. So it's one of the mechanisms. No one therefore asks the question – who is responsible for this privatisation, how have many 400 or more bad privatisations occurred? I know it's short notice, it's not even worth the magazine to go through the economic position, through legal, social, health care, education. We've got a lot of objections here. (President: Time. I'm finishing up a few sentences. Positions are down, that means that what we had, it'll stay or it'll get worse. It can't be better, because there's no money. Money is the basis for all this to be started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33659	I thank Mr. Poscurica. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, I must, on behalf of the SRS, notice one fact, which is that as many of the last days have been showered by stories about Serbia's European perspective, primarily through the abolition, that is to say, putting Serbia on the white Schengen, and then by the deblocking of that transitional agreement, so much yesterday afternoon and today we cannot hear or recognize in someone's story the European perspective of Serbia through this document that you brought before us yesterday and today. We didn't, because you really can't even recognize her or see her. Dr. Paja Momchilov, my colleague, asked a very serious and realistic question – is this a road to Europe and in a formal sense and in a fundamental, or relative to what it represents in its structure and content? Of course not, and therefore today neither you nor any of the representatives of the government mention the EU, I repeat, and the European perspective of Serbia. I'll say one more thing. If you ask in one indirect way, this budget is indeed realistic, because it represents a truly devastating picture and an opportunity for Serbia in economic terms at the end of 2009. I'll remind you of two things at the end of 2008 when we adopted the 2009 budget. That's when you said two sentences, or you said two things. You have cemented the 2009 budget that you then projected at 50 billion, and by all accounts, you will end up with a double budget deficit, because, as we hear from your announcements, there is one more rebalancing, whether or not it will be, we will see, and the final figure of the budget deficit for this year we will see only in this rebalancing. And the other thing you mentioned then, which I will remind you of, mentioning some recipes, you said – it doesn't always matter how much money I have, but how I have it. Then about a month and a half ago, you found, justifiably, that there are 130 billion dinars in Serbia that you can't trace. The cream on the cake was certainly the State Audit Agency's report, which, by treating only 27% of the public finances of the budget, found all that she had found, which many have spoken of today, and I will only later, through my presentation, call on some things, some of the facts in that report. For the SRS, the following thing is unacceptable: it is unacceptable that you as a kind of public finance expert give yourself the luxury of saying that this budget is transparent. If your rapper's been a budget since last year, it's a defeat. Why do I tell you this? When you talk about economic policy, it's a matter of politics, then you can afford anything and everything. You've defined a budget like this and done a thing that deserves a monument. You've reconciled the incomparable ideological concepts, you've implanted in it, I'd say, the sick ambitions, the political ambitions of individuals, expressed through economic parameters. That really worked out for you, but you'll see how much that's gonna cost the citizens in 2010. And as the hostages of the sick coalition relations were in 2009, an even worse picture will be in 2010. And I'll say it again, as a public finance expert, you're deeply aware of these facts, but you can't convince us, because you don't believe that this is a model of transparent treatment of public finances. The SRS said that last year and asked you and now the answer to the question – when will we finally get the programming budget? This is the only way to make budgets allocate, spend, earn and spend in an adequate and transparent manner. And until Serbia gets the programming budget as a whole, that this programme budget story, which is a modern and modern way of managing public finances, you're down to a pilot project of five ministries and you repeat it year after year, and you're convincing us parallel to that absurd that this is something transparent, that this has been improved compared to the previous year, I can't do it any different, harder, to express myself, but really, it's not correct. Do you, with a line budget like this, want to convince us in the European perspective, that this EU of yours, where you are leading us, will accept this as a model for treating public finances? They will, little tomorrow, and you know it well, but you tried to answer the Budgetary System Act and predicted the programming budget only in 2015. You spoke two or three years ago, true, not you, but those who sat in your seat tried local self-government in Serbia to commit to programming budgets. The fingers of one hand can be listed by a local self-government who may have been able to do so. Do you know what some local kabadiahs do? How do they spend between other transfer funds that you're going to transfer to them this year? Of course you don't know and have no insight, and at the end of the year you're wondering where 130 billion are. Now, this is, in a very open way, an indicator of how ready you are to deal essentially with reforms and changes in the financial system in Serbia. And something else that is very important as an indicator, which is the practice of modern and developed countries in the world, when applying the country's programming budget, it manages to save 5-7% of the total budget value for that year. If you were to reflect that on our budget, it would be over 35 billion dinars, Madam Minister. It can where the structure of the budget is healthy and normal. When the structure of the budget is as it is in Serbia, let the story come down in half, but imagine saving on an annual basis, just because the budget is a programme of 20 billion dinars. Imagine reducing the budget deficit today in Serbia by 20 billion dinars or putting it in a position of capital costs for 2010. Imagine what you would get or put them on an economic classification, which will subsidize private enterprises, the real sector, the sector that will finally start to be liquid, how much, that creates a substance from which you will still, unfortunately, have, but we haven't yet been dominantly paying off, we will start 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, when we will objectively face the debts due to the grace period, for a great debt. We still have room, if we can say how much, we can breathe. Look at what that intransparency looks like through numbers. I ask you -- do you know, say, the Ministry of Energy and Mining, economic classification 451 – 280 million. Can you imagine where these funds will be spent? The budget explains in two sentences what the purpose of these funds is, in an explanation that is not binding on anyone, and at least for ministers in the government, as found in the State Auditing Institution report. But this is also benign, what else does it say here? Ministry of Youth and Sports, economic classification 481 – grants to NGOs. No words of reasoning, a billion and a hundred million dinars. By what criteria? That's where you didn't even put a special act of government, but that's what you, as finance minister, are going to have insight or eventually the whole government. Not to talk about Parliament's control and Parliament's control role in this story, fully entrusted to the Minister and the Ministry, no less than a billion. We move forward, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, subsidies – three and a half billion, economic classification 451. What criteria? Who's going to distribute that money and that money, by what means? What will be the motive? Will it all be like so far, political merits or something else or something else?- I'm sorry. What about the subsidies that many people in today's debate touched? The dominant of the subsidy you have shown in the budget is the dominant expression of your unpreparedness for system reforms, the fact that you haven't privatised what you've been doing for years. Not to mention bankruptcy and liquidation, etc. Services contracted by the NIP ministry – 28.8 million dinars. Can you tell me what these funds are going to be spent on? Not to mention this 551 classification by special government act, 18.5 billion. Can we expect that there will be no political bias? We really can't. But what's interesting here, gentlemen of the ruling majority? Whose ministries are we talking about? Well, no wonder you're laughing at Mrs. Radeta's findings earlier, when did she say - Minister Šijakovic? All ministries of the political party G17 plus. And you're convincing us that this budget is something that's created on a real basis. You don't believe that either. How can you convince us of that? Of course, something that's tenorous, all the time of the debate, and it's about the income side of the budget. Some MPs, truth be told, mentioned some of the things I'm going to touch here, trying not to repeat myself, but very justifiablely, and I'm going to mention them. You're talking about the revenue side of the budget. Half of the revenue side is provided for VAT revenues, but no one says in the VAT structure, which are the dominant revenues, which are VAT revenues from imports. It's a real picture of Serbia today, 180 billion in VAT revenue, but imports. Well, you've admitted a devastating economic policy to reason. On what basis did you project the revenue side of the budget based on VAT? Based on the import movement, exchange rate. And, imagine this now, imagine the hypocrisy that will come from tomorrow, when this debate is over, based on the corrections for the application of the transitional agreement. So, you've already installed the effects of defrosting the Transition Agreement, as you yourself have written, into this devastating document, the budget. We've been hearing about the effects we need to wait and be there for days. Basically, what about income taxes and profits? They're falling. These are flat indicators of economic movements in one country. You boast of the Transition Agreement, customs revenues are dropping. These are questions that everyone avoids giving an answer. And again, as a public finance expert, to find a theoretical and formal response, but essentially, you know well that this budget, defined and conceived as it is, is not the answer to the economic sun that we are in and that through this budget will gain continuity in 2010, not because there may be no will or knowledge for you to change it personally, there is no political will in the government, there is no political reason for individuals who, unfortunately, are dominant in your government. You expect success, there was a word about it a moment ago, long-term financial assets are of no interest to anyone. In 2008, Serbia pump 750,000 dinars into the budget on this basis. It is the tenth part of the daily market of a shopping mall in Serbia. The flows of armed funds, i.e. foreign funds, of the Republic of Serbia, are not monitored. What about the short-term claims made by the Republic of Serbia, subsidies, or loans made back from the budget for years? No one asks them back without saying what it is about seeking the funds that are in the name of the guarantee the state has issued, that the state may charge them from those on whose behalf it has betrayed them and in whose name it has paid them. This illustrates the domestic and rational business, i.e. the functioning of those who sit in government and look after the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Minister, this will also end, unfortunately, the SRS believes that this budget will represent only the continuity of a failed, unreasonable and non-domestic economic policy run by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33661	Thank you. The People's MP Marina Toman has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33662	Ladies and gentlemen, the way Prime Minister Cvetkovic explained the draft budget yesterday in his brief address to lawmakers, one of the most important laws for a country, we can conclude that he himself does not believe in spoken words and claims – how we have a stable exchange rate, a series of benefits for the economy, GDP growth of 1.5% in the next, and in 2011, even greater, which means new jobs, wage growth, pensions and other incomes. It really sounds nice, however, Prime Minister Cvetkovic forgot something to do. He forgot to explain how the state plans to make it happen. Whether it's intentional or not, we don't want to go into it. If we see from the proposed budget that it does not contain the long-known public sector reforms, it contains small investments in economy and agriculture, new borrowings, these are all facts that speak the opposite. The stability of the exchange rate and the deterioration of the dinars has damaged the economy, and we have been able to convince citizens these days, as we have witnessed the announcements of new purchases, which means the growth of inflation, the decline of demand, etc. because of this stable exchange rate, according to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. It is an inappropriate and scandalous statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic that the draft budget should be supported because the government will engage in a reduction in the grey economy, the fight against corruption and economic crime. It is inappropriate because it followed the State Auditing Institution's report, which found numerous irregularities in the cabinets of Mirko Cvetkovic in spending taxpayers' money. Probably that the prime minister doesn't see any problems here, since, as we could hear in public these days, they're all the wrong accountants. It is scandalous that we are also in the debate this year about the draft budget as usual, with a deadline from the budget calendar and a tradition that has become a tradition, without the final account and the Report of the State Auditing Institution. And as hard as you try to convince the citizens of Serbia that a serious budget proposal, based on real projections and the interests of the state and citizens, remains the question -- how can citizens trust you when you haven't filed embezzlement accounts in 2008? How will you convince us that you will justifiably allocate more funds to the ministry which has been found to have been unlawfully spending taxpayers' money? Every argument you make in front of this fact falls into the water. The budget was created as instructed by the IMF, not taking into account the created needs of the economy and society. It contains almost none of the reforms, not even long-known public sector reforms. Not long ago, we could hear from Prime Minister Cvetkovic that such a reform cannot be implemented at once, but the start of its implementation and the first effects will be put into the 2010 budget. Reforms have been left out, but new employment is therefore envisaged, i.e. an increase in state administration by about four thousand workers, as if this parliament had not passed two laws that envision a reduction in state administration and local administrations. We continue to have huge redundancies for various agencies and administrations, budget parasites, which are doing a job that is already in the ministry's control and whose results are minor in terms of costs. We still have a huge gap for contract services, where every transparency is left out. The budget was primarily created as a compromise solution between parties of the ruling coalition, parties that make up the government, and not as a balance between social giving and incentive measures. If you claim that the budget is development-investment-oriented, then it would have to look really different. The increase in subsidies to agriculture and businesses, however, is about small segregation, for an economy of 3.5 billion dinars is not enough, so that we can discuss in this Parliament a different income and expenditure structure already next year, so that we do not get back into the situation of paying public sector employees and pensions as much as 58% of the expenditure. Both salaries and pensions are not in themselves a problem. It's not the pensioners' fault, it's the ones who create the country's economic policy. They're the result of a pre-grey state administration, a collapsed economy, a poor demographic structure. The problem is not in the 397.5 billion dinars, but in what makes it 58% of the budget expenditure. If the government hadn't done anything to change the structure of the economy, and first of all, she didn't do anything on her resuscitation, it can be seen from this data. You claim, we're opening the door for the defrosting of the Transition Trade Agreement. I ask you, what are these products that are competitive in EU markets? It is necessary to create such an economic environment that will be able to generate public spending in the future, without it, Serbia will continue to be in a closed, bewitched circle of which there is no exit. Unfortunately, it's been another year for such a thing. Large revenues, as my colleague Stevanovic said, are expected from VAT collection, 49%, which is significantly higher than this and 2008. Is it a real projection? We argue – no, because it remains a weak purchasing power of the population, unemployment, a decline in economic activity. Let me remind you, since June, the number of companies in the blockade has increased by about eight thousand and has reached an incredible number of 69,618. How is it possible to make this kind of income, when the profit tax is, as a budget income, projected to about 24% less than in 2009 and 22 billion dinars, respectively. From the proposed 2010 budget, we can also see that the state will pay the interest and the accompanying costs of borrowing, instead of the current 29.3 billion, next year will allocate 34.9 billion dinars. The main and interest in the overall expenditure structure in 2009 was around 20.42% in 2010, so, in the following year around 31% with the tendency to increase this percentage, because the borrowings continue, and the conditions under which we are in debt are increasingly unfavourable. Any comment on this would be really excessive. A lot of borrowing, a little real income. That's the facts. The fact is, we don't even know what the government's strategy of economic development looks like, if it even exists. Despite economic subsidies and an increase in agricultural subsidies, small investments are at stake, in order to take some step in the destroyed, destroyed and almost destroyed Serbian economy and agriculture. Does the government think 18 billion subsidies to agriculture are enough? On the other hand, if we compare the amount of 18 billion to 12 billion to how much the railways do or about two billion, how much ski resorts do, then 18 billion for the strategically important agricultural branch really little. You will say, well, there is no money and there is a reality to be understood. We agree, there's no money, but it could and had to be made a different redistribution. If there is no money, as is possible, it is projected to allocate threem euros to renovate the embassy in Brussels and Paris, and 2.5m euros to the embassy in Washington. It is incomprehensible that taxpayers' money under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being spent on representatives of NGOs, which besides experts, the ministry, the government's conclusion, the ministry must lead to international conferences. What kind of NGOs are these? To conclude, budget projections are unreal to us. That's what the facts show. On the other hand, the amounts for incentives are insufficient to revive agriculture and therefore we think that we need to make a different redistribution of budgets and that only after that can we talk about higher salaries, higher pensions, new employment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33663	I thank Mrs. Toman. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33664	Thank you. This budget represents one step in relation to what was planned for the medium term. He agreed with the IMF's views on a budget deficit reduction over the next few years. The budget is fully expected and shows that the government has been very responsible for leading the policy because it has adhered to an agreement with the IMF. The budget is such that it can settle everything that's on the payroll for next year. The 2010 budget is developmental for Serbia's economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are statements by the official representatives of the Serbian government. If today were December 31st, I could also find a basis for such statements, in terms of beautiful but rather unreal desires. Things look completely different. The budget envisions revenue of 656 billion dinars, expenditures of 763 billion, and a deficit of 107 billion dinars. It is not difficult to calculate, even according to Jelasic's solid dinar course today, that the budget deficit is billions and 100m euros. Two are crucial problems. First, it is clear that the projected deficit will not be directed directly into the economy, given the defined funds for capital investments. Secondly, the government, and this shows all the analysis of serious economists, has unrealized some revenue to show that the deficit will remain at this level. Let's take it in a row. Serbia's 2010 budget forecasts revenues of 655.97 billion dinars, which is 35 billion more than the planned revenues for this year 2009. The state is planned to have a higher income than excise and VAT, and less than a profit tax. The planned revenues are compared with an estimate of revenues in 2009 of 620 billion dinars, 29 billion less than revenues determined by the rebalancing in April. The income structure plans to increase VAT revenues and excise duties, especially on tobacco products, while a lower income from customs and corporate tax is planned. VAT revenues in the draft budget amount to 325.2 billion dinars, which is half the revenue planned for the entire budget. This is 23 billion more than in April's budget rebalance, and 28 billion more than the estimated 2009 income. The state plans to get 131 and a half billion from excise duties, 65 billion from oil derivatives, 54.4 from tobacco processing and 11.6 billion from other excise goods. Comparing the 2010 budget proposal with April 2009 rebalancing, the rebalancing project envisioned 117.3 billion excise revenues: 61.6 of oil, 43 of tobacco and 12.7 of other excise goods. From the income tax in the Treasury, 76 billion dinars will be merged, which is four billion more than this year, and five billion less than this year's rebalance was planned for April. The state, by the original 2009 budget, planned 44 billion incomes from corporate profits, and by rebalance in April, the item was reduced to 34 billion. A total of 29 are expected to be charged, and the 2010 projection is even less than 21.9 billion. They say – we have a different form of budget, given that a new Budgetary System Act has been adopted, so that the article is the most significant one. 4. and 5. concerning tax reliefs, i.e. funds expected from the EU and so on. IPA funds. I can understand that negotiations with all users are difficult, above all, there is a mandatory funding in terms of social giving, education, health care, etc., and that during 2010, it is quite certain that there will continue to be a risk of the global economic crisis. I cannot accept the formulation that this form of budget will allow for the maintenance of macroeconomic stability, as well as an increase in capital and a reduction in public spending, and that it will create conditions for greenfield investments. Why? Here, just, a few reasons. Before entering this next year 2010, very often we can listen to stories that come from the authorities about better and better life, but in 2011 there. Why? Simply because we can be satisfied if price and course stability is maintained in 2010 and what must inevitably be accepted, which is a further drop in the number of employees. In order to even consider some economic results foreseen by the 2010 budget, I think it is necessary to go back two years, more specifically to 2008 and its last quarter, which has shown that we are a country that is equally exposed to negative shocks in the international economy, as well as most countries. The financial sector has caused the global crisis, and it has become a two-digit decline over the fall of international trade and investment in 2009 in almost all countries of Europe. What were the most painful effects of the global crisis on Serbia in 2009? First of all, GDP declines of around 7%, with a reduction in the number of employees by about two hundred thousand. In doing so, about 80,000 employees in the last quarter of 2008 and another 120,000 in this year, which is on the run. The most injured was the small enterprise sector and employees of the processing industry. The real depth of the decline in this year will be revealed when it is changed, more specifically, in line with the way it is done in most countries in the world, so the methodology of the calculation of the gross domestic product and the basis for the calculation is that in 2008. However, the results of this analysis will show what awaits us in 2010. Because sources of possible recovery will be the same as the sources of decline this year, so export growth and export-oriented production. But with export growth, there will be two more factors, and these are new investments in Serbia and large capital projects, if that is the case at all. If we had 20% lower productivity in 2008 compared to, say, 1982, about 18% in 2009, with an additional drop in the number of employees of 3% and GDP growth, productivity will be lower by 10%, with the prospect that it will be higher in 2012. The level of productivity in 2012 can only be equal to the level of 1982, as a result of the politics of the slow dying of large industrial enterprises in Serbia over the past nine years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the negative economic movements, above all, have left a very negative impact on Serbia's external economic activity. Here, the issue of how much the financial crisis, i.e. the reduction of the country's economic and financial flows with abroad, has affected the decline in Serbia's overall economic activity. It is certain that the relationship is mutual, especially when it looks at how much Serbian economy has been and remained dependent on external sources of funding. The crisis only deepened what was inevitable, i.e. economic growth in the previous period was highly coordinated with the inflow of foreign capital and that is what we have pointed to countless times so far. The main restriction on economic growth, in addition to the decline in demand for Serbia's main foreign trade partners, is, above all, a major restriction in the inflow of foreign investment. There's a lot of data that points to all of this. I would also like to point out, as far as the balance of payments and the balance of payments deficits are concerned, it is clear that the surplus demand over the available potential of the offer is most visible in the product of broad consumption and that, unfortunately, Serbia has not made the necessary structural adjustment during the transition period, i.e. that it has reduced the share of exchangeable goods in the overall supply, primarily the huge decline in industrial production participation in the social product, the sector of non-replaceable goods did not grow at the expense of agriculture, which is common, but industry. And a large part of the investments in the past period were, above all, in the area of inexplicable goods, even more than half during 2009, so that scarce foreign funds directed into the sector of non-exchangeable goods show data as much as it was and how it was. Mrs Dragutinović, you know very well that in consultation with the IMF it is agreed that the receipts are lower, expenditures are not much lower, which will also produce a greater deficit compared to data that, for example, we can get on the Ministry of Finance website. When compared to estimated GDP, total income and expenditure comes to about 40 to 44% of GDP, depending on how much GDP is realistically evaluated. These data on incomes and expenditures do not include both revenue and expenditure from large public enterprises, primarily referring to EPS, Railway and Telecom and local enterprises, which would likely lead to more than 50% of the country's share in the economy. There are expenditures that are extremely large outside the budget, which are not given any importance, such as the value of earnings outside the republican budget, subsidies, expenditure on buying goods and services, capital expenditure, etc. Expenses for the purchase of goods and services and capital expenditures are much higher than budget expenditure, which creates an opportunity for abuses in public procurement. There has already been a lot of mention on the subject of setting up a tender, and it is quite worrying that yearly advertising, 16% of GDP goes to public procurement, and we know how many opportunities there are for various abuses. The countries operate on the basis of tax charges and the consumption of tax revenues for different purposes, from the functioning of the state through social transfers, to economic subsidies and in general the place in all countries is that the state is too bulky, i.e. that taxes are too high. When compared, for example for the sake of Serbia's tax income structures with OECD countries, it is easy to establish one truth – that in relation to OECD countries, the tax system in Serbia is the most unfair. What makes Serbia more taxed than all OECD countries? Due to the minimum share of tax revenue from assets, profits and profits, and the largest share of income from social contributions and taxes on consumption, VAT, excise duties and customs duties. With a share of tax revenues in GDP of 36.5% in 2008, Serbia was slightly above the average share in OECD countries of 35.9%. Total public revenues are higher in Serbia for non-tax revenues of 5.3%, giving a share of public revenues of 41.8% in GDP in 2008. On the share of personal income tax, etc. For lack of time this time I won't. However, I still have to point out that the position of the SRS is that in times like these, the redistribution of social wealth must be significantly more balanced. It is unacceptable that there is a law in Serbia on luxury tax, such as jeeps, expensive cars, private yachts, planes, luxury apartments and villas, in EU countries these rates range from 35 per cent to 75% and there are different tax classes in income tax. It is also unacceptable that money from the government of Serbia's economy programme, during the economic crisis, will be given to companies that will simultaneously invest in the opening of their exposures in other countries. In this way, the government will lend these companies and make up for their losses, while at the same time they would violate the country's overall macroeconomic stability by making up for a time when the state has a huge lack of direct foreign investment to be worth valuable foreign funds from Serbia. Therefore, only those companies that will open their representations abroad should be credited in order to increase the volume of exports from Serbia. There are many open questions, what will be the flow of vault records in the following year, the costs on behalf of the interest that will be generated, how much the principal debt is paid, conditionally said below the line, if it is, for example, 50 billion dinars, then it is necessary to find 125 billion dinars in total to patch up spending in the following year. In particular, the problem for the budget will arise in the payment of old foreign savings in early June of next year, etc. etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, if a part of what I have presented today is known to my colleagues, if there is an insight into that revised memorandum of budget and economic fiscal policy for 2010, with projections for 2011 and 2012, if there is no idea what will be, for example, doing, with the increase and control of so-called. The prices controlled, as well as any oscillations of the course over the next year, are more than clear that Mirko Cvetkovic will fail to replace Santa in 2010. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33665	Dear People's MPs, since no one is answering from the list of sentinels to participate in this part of the debate, I ask, "Is anyone who has not used his right under Article 93?" Does the Rules of Procedure want to take a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Minister want to speak to you? Yeah. Here you are, Mrs Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33666	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, it has been a great pleasure for me to spend this Saturday day and night with you. I can say that some discussions for me were very inspiring, as they usually do, speakers disappear, but that doesn't mean I shouldn't say anything about it. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: There are also those who are there. There's luck. The very inspiring discussion was Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, as usual. What's my answer to such a discussion? The system of public finances is really complicated and constantly changing and so is Serbia. What many countries had long ago, Serbia still doesn't have now. Many countries long ago had a strong control function, internal audit, internal control, financial programming, external audit. For example, many countries have long ago had some institutions, which, for example, are called – a consolidated vault account and whoever reads a little knows that, for example, the first consolidated vault account was made in 1787. Why am I saying that? Because among the messengers are those who were in power and happiness, it is being replaced. That institution existed in 1787. We've only just begun to form it in 2003. Serbia is yet to establish something that has long existed in the developed world. Nothing can be done overnight and what most people now use as an argument against the government's responsible fiscal policy is the State Audit Authority's report. I'd just like to remind you that the State Audit Institutions report shows what the situation is compared to the standard. Since this is the first report, it cannot show whether or not progress has been made, but only the condition of the standard. I don't think it would be bad, because of the public, to make an audit report for the final accounts in 1996, 1998 and 2004. Now we have, thank God, the 2008 report. Even without an audit report, no matter how many MPs try to talk about how transparent this budget is and doesn't meet the standards, I'll just look at them. I didn't say this budget was made according to international standards, but it's definitely much closer than the budgets that were made before it. I just want to remind you that no matter how much you're criticizing this current budget, what's definitely true is that this budget is more transparent, no matter how much someone doesn't like using this word. You'll admit, although it sounds funny that this budget is only in weight, let me say, harder than the previous one, however, when you show the spending of a country on twenty sides and on a thousand sides, you'll admit that you'll find much more information about the state's spending in a harder budget. What is definitely true, when it comes to this budget, is that the structure and content of the budget is improved, that there is increased detail in showing budget expenditures and that budget positions are more detailed, so that you too can criticise them more or someone to praise them. Also, I don't think we should be looking at the auditor's report for what's not there. One of the MPs said, I apologize for forgetting who, that auditors assessed the efficiency of spent money and criticised the prime minister's comment that the prime minister had sent auditors to the accountants. I'll remind you that the audit is accounting and that auditors and accountants need to talk. They have no mandate to assess the efficiency of spending money. Their mandate is to see if it's being spent in accordance with the Budget Law. In doing so, accounting failures should be distinguished. I'll use it when that law is on the agenda, to say what they've found since the abuses at the finance ministry, so that we can talk about it openly, whether something is valued above the market price. There have been a lot of comments on how these are shown by the own revenues of the budget users. For information, there's a budget account. These are expenditures defined by the Budget Law. They are financed from tax and non-tax revenue, from these additional own revenues and from other sources. Therefore, the final accounts, as well as the Budget Law, show their own revenue. The own revenues of budget users, both direct and indirect, are greater than what is spent. It's not true they don't see each other. They stand in that institution called the consolidated vault account, which was formed somewhere in some countries in 1787 and are now serving as loans to the state, so they are now providing a vault function. It's not about someone spending past the budget law, he spent his own income as much as he spent, and what he didn't spend standing in a single vault account. When there's nothing, when you have to do it or when you're moving from one system to another, things usually get a little worse before they're better. Anyone who's involved in sports will realize that when you go from one swimming technique to, for example, another, at first you're a little slower swimming than you were before, so that's definitely things. They have to get things going better until the system starts working the way it's supposed to. Also, several MPs commented on the government's economic policy and, if I understand correctly, who knows which time the debate was launched, it is an eternal topic in Parliament, a relationship between discretion and rules. Discretion, in my opinion, means flexibility and I think there must always be flexibility, because flexibility makes it possible to react faster. We can talk about the relationship between rules and flexibility, about the ratio of some discretionary expenditure in total, and about not being necessary, we don't need to talk about it at all, because if there's any sense of government, it makes so much sense that there's room for flexibility. Otherwise, if there were no flexibility, there would be no need for rapid response, and all of this would be possible if you could predict everything perfectly in advance, which is impossible. As the crown of everything and the crown proof of intransparency, a budget reserve was mentioned, as distributed under the government's decision, past Parliament. So, since the world and century, there's been a budget reserve. Since the world and the century, the reserve has been used for something that is either not well planned or unforeseeable. Since it's been a world and a century, there's been a standard for the size of a budget reserve. We are, unfortunately, far from that standard. The minimum standard for the budget reserve is 1.5% of the expenditure, which means, in the case of our budget, that at least 12 billion should stand as a budget reserve to allow the government to react quickly. What's a quick reaction? In what case should he react quickly? Let's say, in case you were getting flu vaccines or, God forbid, some other infectious diseases you couldn't predict in advance. Is the budget, as one MP said, destructive or developmental? First of all, I would say that social, because I think every country's basic function is social and, somewhere, I think that in developed market economies, what, hopefully, ours will be one day, it should be the only function of the state. Instead of "development," since I don't think that development is a function of the state, I prefer the word "incentive." And when we talk about incentives, I apologize for talking about standards, but whoever wants to deny me, but argumentably, it's considered to be an incentive budget, it's usually a crisis budget, when all businesses have or react to a deficit of 2.5% of the social product. That's a measure. So, size order, these fiscal stimuli in the EU countries this year, which is slowly receiving the end, were on average 2.5% of the social product. With the 2010 budget, what I call fiscal incentives, these are subsidies, soft loans from the state and capital expenditure, i.e. infrastructure projects are greater than 3% of the social product, with 3% not including loans the state takes for infrastructure and guarantees it gives to public undertakings for infrastructure. As far as the EU countries are concerned, these loans and guarantees have entered the 2.5%. Projection of income - projections, I suppose, is not worth discussing. Personally, I think this is a conservative projection, and I'm going to try to explain it with a simple method. When you look at the year as an average, we can say a month's 50 billion dinars are the revenues of the republican budget, on average. But this year has two very different periods: the first six months and the other six months. In the first six months, I'd say, it can be checked, that the average budget revenues were 45-46 billion. In the other six months, average revenues were between 54 billion and 55 billion. So, only if we assume that the economy is going to be held at this level, the third quarter of 2009, to ignore both the growth and inflation that will be, the projection would be greater than the one that is embedded in this budget. It was nice and effective to compare the company that has lost to a country that has a deficit, where it follows that the deficit is something that is abnormal and nowhere seen. I know, Mr Popovic, if you were to read, surely, regularly, "Economist", I brought the last number, here you have the most important or largest countries of the world's economy and I would ask you, for the sake of the public, to find a country where a surplus was achieved in 2009. Here are all the countries with deficits. Because of the public, there's one, it's Norway, and it's known for what reason. All other countries, except Norway, have a deficit, which is on average between 5% and 9% of the social product. That's no excuse. The deficit is an instrument of economic policy. Expansive fiscal policy is a cure for the disease of this economy, not these, world economies. When the country is in recession, both fiscal and monetary policies are expansional. Mr. Shormaz listed a few things I don't know, and I didn't have time to check. I really don't know how many in Poland's auditors. I'm gonna have to check it out. I really don't know if in Poland, and in other EU countries, when you don't respect, or when you're late, or if you're doing rebalancing immediately, there's a government downturn. I doubt that's what it says in the constitutions, as Mr. Shormaz said, but to check it out. What's the same as in Poland, (Sweden or Poland what he said) is that as much as the State Auditing Institution asked for by the Corruption Agency, as much as the Anti-Corruption Council asked for, as requested by the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information as they asked for, they got so much. As Mr. Shormaz would say, they gave the bill and we installed it. Now, again, this famous audit report and what he's established. There's a sentence that hit me a little, and that's – back a few years ago there's no record. When someone says "back a few years" it means there's no record of these few years, but there's been prior records. I must say, there has never been an up-to-date record of non-financial property! There's never been an up-to-date record of financial assets! There has never been and never been proven claims based on dividends and profits! Only now there's a report from the State Auditing Institution that revealed it. In addition to the discussion on the intergenerational allocation of budgetary resources, this means the relationship between pension expenditure and development expenditure, all other discussions that criticised the structure in the budget, were largely focused on that – that the expenditure provided for in this budget is small: for education, for health, for agrarian budget, for independent regulatory bodies, for investment in infrastructure, for project exchanges, etc. When I tried to add up all these relationships that you suggested, naturally individually, I got a public spending of 55% of the social product. About transparency, maybe just one more detail. So this budget is definitely not according to international standards, and I totally agree with you. But I'm afraid I don't agree with the part where you talk about the programming budget. I don't see, really, that the programming budget that exists with us right now is the real programming budget. In order to make a real programming budget, it would take at least five to six years. Experience shows that without ten years, there's no way to make a real programming budget. I don't know why it's more transparent for you, let's now talk about the Ministry of Health and the programme budget, which you have clearly praised at the expense of some other line budgets, when there is a programme that says - improvement and supervision in the field of health care or preventive health care programme, or a programme for monitoring and preventing tobacco diseases. Why is it more transparent for you than, say, the department of finance that says – you have so much to pay for the payment of interest. You know the balance of debt, interest rates, everything is clear to you – to pay off the debt you have to pay so much, to transfer the pension fund by law to get the pensioners what they own, by law you have to transfer so much and so much. I want to tell you that programming budgets, when legally defined obligations are almost impossible. If possible, they're only possible in that part of discretionary expenditure and that makes sense. Otherwise, what we call programming, these are activities, and by the Budgetary System Act, we have admitted that this is a long-term process and that we are likely to reach the programme budget in 2015. Anyway, in order for us to have a little Saturday for us, I thank you again very much. A climate has been created in which the public's attention is focused on the state of public finances and as much as I disagree with you in many things, I really thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-12-0.u33667	Madam Minister, and we sincerely thank you for the outstanding quality of the answer to all asked questions and the greatest number of dilemmas. Allow me, Mrs. Radeta, when you speak, I listen to you. Having obtained the conditions to conclude a principled search on the 2010 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia and a single review of the decision to give consent to the 2010 financial plans for the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service, that is exactly what I am doing. I'd like to inform you that on 14 December 2009, at 10.00 hours, we will continue our work. I would like to thank Mrs. Ruzica Stoiljkovic, I would like to thank Mrs. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, especially thank you for your very serious preparation and participation in the debate. We won't work tomorrow. We'll work Monday.
