ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as referred to in Article 86(1) and in accordance with Article 211 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, based on official records of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that 107 MPs attend today's work. On the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, and in accordance with Article 204 and Article 206(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have appointed Thursday, parliament. the year, starting at 10.00 hours, as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions about the current topic – THE RELATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTRUCTIONS. I would like to remind you that the applicants of the proposal have requested that the parliamentary questions concerning the current topic be answered by Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. The right to ask questions shall be given by all MPs, according to the order of application, and until the total time for asking questions is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP may ask up to three questions (Article 208). Rules of Procedure. Answering parliamentary questions may take 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the hall (Article 207. Rules of Procedure. The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. Following the response, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to three minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions according to the order of applications (Article 209). Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly during the duration of the questions and answers, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure (Article 211). Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the People's MP will first have a representative of the parliamentary group who is proposing the topic, then the word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest group of MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to take care of the order of applications filed. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28992	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, this government and this parliament adopted a large number of laws during this spring. According to the statistics we received, 260% of the law was passed during the quarter of March this year. However, the debts of both the government and parliament remain according to certain constitutional obligations. These laws include laws that Serbia will apply when it joins the EU, but many of the laws that Serbia had to adopt earlier and carry out its obligations under the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution and according to the constitution itself. One of those laws is the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. This law has not been passed before this congregation to this day, and we have a duty to say something about it. The government has gone wrong with this procedure. She allowed the first Assembly of Vojvodina to adopt the statutes, and then, according to the Statute of the Vojvodina Assembly, where the powers of the Vojvodina were determined, to pass a law establishing jurisdiction. The procedure, of course, had to be different - to first adopt a law on determining jurisdiction, and then to establish a proposal for a statute by the Vojvodina Assembly, and then to adopt it at its regular session. We have been present for more than a year with great public debates on this matter. I assume the government is fully engaged in this. In March, she passed a draft law laying down jurisdiction, and some quasi-debate took place against the draft. He failed and is now trying in some other way to achieve internal consent within the DS, between parts of the government from the province and Serbia, etc. I don't know if the government is aware that it has an obligation to pass any more laws before the proposal of the Duke's Statute is established. According to the Serbian Constitution, the government must adopt not only a law on determining jurisdiction, but also a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, a law that will determine the type and amount of income that Vojvodina will earn in order to achieve its competences in the area of autonomy. The property law of territorial autonomy units and local self-government units must also be passed. It is, therefore, one set of laws that stands before this government, but the government has persistently, for months already, can count on it in years, not fulfilling this obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28993	Thanks, it's been three minutes. He has the word of Prime Minister Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28994	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that, after the summer break, we are re-entering a regulatory system, where once a month, the government has opportunities and opportunities to inform the public about what it is doing, what the problems are, what the successes are, and in general that the additional public is familiar with during the work. Also, I would like to thank you for choosing a topic that represents the beginning of our monthly gathering, because it is extremely important. I'd like to give, first of all, a principled answer to the question in the title of the subject, and then I'll go through the explanation and through the answer to the specific questions to try to explain how far we've come and what it's all about. If due to limited time I don't have time to explain in these five minutes, I'm going to use some other questions to continue with an explanation. (The President warns the MPs with the bell. ) First of all, the government has a very clear view of its constitutional obligations. For her, the Constitution is the highest legal act and the government fully insists on his respect. Here you should consider the following facts. Unfortunately, due to a number of historical and other circumstances, in the last 15-20 years, we have had opportunities, in addition to everything we have experienced, to disintegration of the country, to create some new integrations and, finally, to create Serbia -- so, in the period from 1990 to today, four constitutions are brought into this country. Let me remind you. The first, in these 20 years or slightly less, was brought to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 1990. Then, two years later, in 1992, the Constitution of the SRJ. Then, the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro in 2003 and, finally, the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So if you look that four constitutions have been passed in about 15-18 years, that means that on average we have had a different constitutional situation on average for each government's regulatory mandate. Each government, and there were many more of them, given that governments mainly did not last the entire mandate, faced this period of compliance with the current legislation with the new constitutions that had been passed. Anyway, the alignments needed to be carried out were done on two levels. The first level, and that was most often the case with the constitutions before this last one, was the level at which the alignment was purely verbal -- "SFRJ" was replaced by "RS" or "SRJ" etc. So these changes that all governments were tasked with doing, but not always successful, which I'm going to have a chance to talk about later. Another type of essential and essential alignment was created at the moment when the constitutions adopted represented a fundamental change in the economic, economic and social system, which is precisely the 2006 Constitution. He introduced, in practice, new values and was adapted to creating a new democratic society. Given that I'm running out of time, I'm going to take the opportunity to pursue an argument after another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28995	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. Excuse me, would you like some questions? Here, you have the right to two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28996	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm very surprised by your response. The question was concrete, and the answer was historic. You've given a lot of unnecessary information that all the people here in the O.R. know. They expect an answer to a specific question and I don't think that's right at all. It can even be said that the congregation is not respected. But to continue with the questioning, as is the order, according to the Rules of Procedure. So I have found that the government has not carried out its duty to give this Parliament a proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction. As the government did not do so, its proposal to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina was given by the DSS, i.e. DSS MPs' club in this assembly. We made that proposal on 21 April this year. On 11 May, we were informed by Madam President of the Assembly that the proposal would go to the Assembly when the Government considered it. I wonder if the government has considered the DSS proposal, which it has the right to both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I'm using your presence here to ask you what's wrong with that bill. Why can't he at least have a discussion at the Assembly if the Government is unable or willing to adopt its own bill on determining jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28997	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28998	Thanks for asking. I mean, about your first part, the goal of the answer is to get to know, first of all, the population of the situation, and, of course, its representatives, so I'm using the opportunity to adapt to how I think the population and the citizens should understand what it is. Of course, I allow you to believe that this way can also be different (the President warns MPs with the bell). ) and in this context, I suggest you stick to the way you think you should in your presentations. So, I'll continue the explanation, because it leads to essence. In particular, when it comes to the law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, there are conflicting views of the lawyers on whether in a specific case they are late or not. In fact, the conflicting views on whether the procedure was to be launched by a certain deadline or to end, are actually to be passed by law. Since I'm not a lawyer, I don't want to get into these polemics. (Dear Shormaz, from the post: You are still the Prime Minister. ) The point is that the Duke's jurisdiction law concerns very crucial issues in this country. Of course, it takes a lot of will to complete the discussion in general and to study all aspects and all the potential problems that can arise from one or another solution, and only then to choose properly. In that context, I am firmly convinced that the government is on the right track and that it is doing exactly what the citizens expect it to do. Fortunately, this discussion is about to end, and I hope that in the next close period ahead of us this proposal will be considered. As for the proposal made by the DSS, I had a chance to see him. I didn't bring it here, but it seems to me that there are significant things that can cause controversial debates. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll talk about it in the afternoon part of the debate, when I bring it out of my office and point out those parts that we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u28999	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Samardzic, you have the right to another inquiry in the next round and that will be the maximum for your participation in today's session. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29000	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, my first question is: will the Government do anything to review the business of the Privatisation Agency? Why am I asking this? Because in the past few years it has been privatised completely illegally, completely illegally, hundreds of companies in Serbia. Tens of thousands of people now live as citizens of another or who knows what order. Mr. Prime Minister, here's a fragrant piece of information. How's the Privatisation Agency doing? 21 people who became the owner of a privatised firm are being held in front of the Special Court for Organized Crime. Fourteen people sold to by the Privatisation Agency are in custody. Well, is that what we wanted to be realized through privatisation? So – will there be a question of responsibility for those who did their job at the Privatisation Agency in a catastrophic and criminal manner? The second question - under what conditions will the Republic of Serbia receive a loan from the Russian Federation? I can see there's a debate in Moscow today, but it's been announced here as an aid, as a historical aid. We know that credit is one commercial business and what interests the citizens of Serbia is – under what conditions is this business concluded and, in this respect, how can the lender condition the purpose of the funds to be spent? Apparently, 80% for roads and 20% for budget deficits.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29001	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29002	Regarding the first question, on the Privatisation and Control Agency of its work, there are relevant authorities, primarily budgetary inspection, which will certainly exercise control. In your question, however, you pointed out a real and very serious problem that we are facing. The problem is that certain privatisations, although from the point of view of the sellers made by law, essentially later began to generate some negative consequences for the economy, especially for the employees. In this context, the government, especially with me in the cabinet, has been very serious about how to help, above all, employees, and in the extreme line and economy, and the whole state, and how to face and prevent such behaviour. That's where we identified the two situations. Both relate to unsuccessful privatisations. In one situation, you have a case that a privatization buyer did everything possible to get the company on its feet. It was mostly companies that weren't the most brilliant ones. So he invested both money and physical effort and everything he could, and in the end, the company failed, went bankrupt, and he suffered huge financial losses himself. It's a situation that generates a free market and there's nothing you can do about it. However, we are much more interested in the situation in which someone bought a company not to make it a successful business entity, but simply for reasons to extract reality, to practically sell for themselves the particular property that the company has or in some way to extract everything that is useful from the company. In the end, let the company go bankrupt, and he himself has been a very private financial asset. Because it's enterprises with so-called. with limited responsibility, he says, what can I do, let him go bankrupt, and the workers are left alone on the street. It's a situation that's been specifically analyzed in my office. It hasn't come to the government yet. That's where we're about to take very serious action. The so-called "so-called" is being considered. Fearing actions and talking to legal experts on the subject. What are colored shops? These are actions that will allow after the company is in difficulty to determine whether it has come into difficulty because its owner has unwittingly used these funds, has been renegotiating one against other creditors, and the law allows us to go back, even up to five years back, to look at what has been done and to dispute these things, and in some situations to introduce criminal responsibility for those who have been withdrawing money from the company for their own personal benefit. So that's the thing you're really working on. When we have a closed model, and I expect it to be relatively soon, we'll apply it. I want to get to know the public in advance that it's an activity that's very ongoing. As for the loan of the Russian Federation and the conditions under which it is acquired, I would like to say that we talked to the Russian Federation about two types of loans. One type is a loan of that 200 million, which is given as budget support. Other types of credit are so-called. project loans, which are given for concrete projects. What I can say right now in this limited time is two things. First, that the talks are still ongoing and that there is no way to talk about the conditions. But secondly, more importantly, and here I want to send a message to both you and the public, is that we will certainly not accept loans under conditions that are less favourable than the appropriate conditions that we can otherwise get from parallel sources. As for the gas issue, I would ask Minister Skundric to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29003	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29004	As far as the South Stream project is concerned, you know it's a master's project. All research activities related to the preparation of the physibilities of studies in the good part have been completed. The legal framework between the participating countries in the implementation of this project has been drawn up. There are strong guarantees that in the dynamics planned this project will be realised. It represents a strategic integration of several significant countries in Europe. It represents a strategic partnership between the Russian Federation and Italy, in the first place, but also represents part of the energy and strategic partnership between Serbia and the Russian Federation, but also with the European Union countries. It is one of the best projects of strategic and developmental character to be built and built in the next few years, and the effects will be far-reaching in the next 30 to 50 years, surely. It's not just about providing reliable and secure supplies to one of our country's most quality energys. It is about increasing the country's overall security through which gas for a part of the EU should flow. As for the price of gas, I would like to remind myself, it is constantly ignored that, when a new gas price was established on 15 October last year, industrial consumers were then given a tenth percent lower price of gas than they had at that point. Unfortunately, due to the disparity in the rate of dollars and dinars, and also due to the way gas is charged, losses have been produced in the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" and it was not possible to correct the price of gas to the lower in this period of time. By New Year's Eve, the price of gas will remain unchanged. Qualified consumers now have a lower price than was established on October 15th, and we estimate that from New Year's Eve there is a possibility of a reduction in gas prices for all consumers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29005	Thank you. Mr. Vladan Batic has questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29006	Mr. Skundric used the term "investigation". I hope there's no need for investigative actions, because it's a term from a criminal trial, but investigations should be conducted at the Privatisation Agency, because they've committed crimes. I live in Obrenovac. Three companies were privatised there: Posavina Trade Company - the new owner of the detention, Bora Markovic Wood Industry - the new owner in custody, various First Spark sectors - individual new owners sentenced legally to long-standing prison sentences. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, how come the Privatisation Agency is selling companies to criminals, and then for years it has been indicated that they have not fulfilled any obligations under the contract, that they have not started production, that they have not paid employees, and the Privatisation Agency is doing nothing? So that there is no doubt, it applies, first of all, to the privatisations made at the time of the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29007	Mr. Cvetkovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29008	I'd like to draw a conclusion from what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29009	Mr. Batic has another question. Are you going to take advantage of that now? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29010	With regard to the loan we need to get from the Russian Federation – is building some mysterious base for emergency situations in the vicinity of Nis an integral part of that project and can you tell us what that means? It is not clear enough to the citizens what this base will represent - what it serves, who will work in it, what needs, what cases, whether there will be armed people, what kind of weapons, what capacity, what potentials. What exactly is this about?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29011	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29012	With regard to the Privatisation Agency, especially the people who were later arrested, I want to say that I don't know if they had prior criminal record or were arrested by committing crimes after participating in the privatisation. In any case, there is a regulation that requires those involved in privatising to deliver confirmation that they do not have a criminal record. I'm firmly convinced that the Agency was holding onto it, and if it wasn't, it would be easy to determine. On the other hand, the fact that such a large number of people in prison are talking about the need to intensify the fight against crime, and I therefore consider it commendable that the government did not remain deaf to breaking the rules, but that, on the contrary, it reacted immediately and that these people were behind the lock. As for the base in Nis, I can tell you that when it comes to this document that is now signed, it is a general character and does not contain the details that you want, but I can tell you what the idea of that base is. So the idea of this base is that it's not military character, but, on the contrary, that it's just like some kind of emergency center for some disasters that would happen to us and in the environment. The idea itself came after, in the beginning, on the basis of a donation from the Russian Federation, demining of the airport and the need to engage Russian mine-mining experts not only at the airport, but also on the path of the future South Stream pipeline to pass, where we had the opportunity to see that they even encountered the other World War II missiles when demining, not just from this last one from 1999. Based on these experiences, as well as the fires that were in Greece and when a Russian plane responded, the idea was to create a single centre, a base where these emergency services could be provided. So, to repeat, it's not about any military base, it's not about that at all, and when it comes to the details you're asking about, this document that's signed doesn't still contain it, it's just the basis for working on what it's going to look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29013	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Mr. President, I am very sorry that we have not heard anything from you in the last rows. I would ask you, if you answer, to answer us loud and clear, so that we may know what this is about. First of all, about the Duke's statutes, you haven't answered anything at all, at least I don't know here from the audience if anyone's heard anything. My question is this: what do you think you're charging next year with a budget if the economy currently owes two thousand billion dinars of credit lines, if the interest obligations to banks are over 200 billion, if the economy is in a very difficult situation, the very large number of companies are in bankruptcy and there are huge layoffs? What do you think about, as your media say, 700,000 hungry in Serbia and new jobs to be opened? Will there be new jobs or will they not and what jobs they are? Why is the Fiat Treaty not respected by any euro, as agreed and signed? What about that contract? I'd have countless questions, but the important question is -- after all this debt this year to fill the budget, what do you think next year with the budget, what do you think about the economy, because the economy owes over 20 billion euros, and the state also owes over 20 billion euros? It's a huge debt. Every day you become more and more in debt and, instead of coming to parliament to discuss these problems, you have recently started a severe persecution against the opposition, against people who are not obedient at both local and republican level. Will you stop that? Do you realize that the opposition in Serbia must exist and do its job? Mr. Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29015	As far as the novelty is concerned, I can't help it. Here, I'm getting closer to the microphone, so I hope it gets better. Secondly, as for the state of business, the state of duty, thank you for giving me the opportunity to break through the answers to these questions some stereotypes that appear using the wrong information and digits, some of which you have now mentioned in your presentation about duty. First of all, I would like to say that, in parallel, Serbia does not belong to a group of countries that are overly in charge, even if the private debts you were talking about are added. If, in turn, only public debt is observed, it can be said that Serbia belongs to countries that are relatively less in charge. There are several countries that are less in charge of Serbia, but the vast majority of European countries are far more in charge of Serbia. I hear it's believed there's going to be a huge increase in public debt this year. I've even seen reports on television, where some percentages are made. That's actually not true at all. There are two methodological mistakes that are made in this matter and, if you'll allow me, I'll explain them, so that you and the citizens can understand what this is all about. The first methodological error that is made refers to the addition of loans that the IMF will give us, the 2.9 billion, and then to the increase in public debt for that amount. It is simply not true, for the simple reason that the loan that is withdrawn from the IMF serves as reserves, therefore not for consumption, and it only theoretically increases public debt, but does not increase it for the needs of consideration and analysis, which you can get the IMF's own confirmation. For citizens who want to understand what this is about, it's the same as when you go to the bank, you take a hundred dinar loan, and then you take that hundred dinars to another bank and you put them on savings. When someone asks you if you owe a hundred dinars you say I am, but at the same time I have those same hundred dinars, just not at that bank, and at your request I can immediately withdraw them from your savings and return them to you. So that loan taken from the IMF doesn't increase our public debt. On the other hand, I would also like to inform both you and the citizens that neither public debt in general, independent of that loan, is increasing and that it is a huge mistake that we, in this year's crisis year, are seriously increasing public debt by covering deficits. It does not even increase because we had to compensate for certain dubiosis, especially in the Serbian Roads company, of about three hundred million euros. These dubiosises were made in a period of high liquidity of this economy, the high takeoff of this economy, one word in a period of full pockets. We had to, in a situation where there was an open crisis, solve these problems instead of coming out of that period with some surplus that we would apply during those black days. Nevertheless, we have not significantly increased public debt. If you'll excuse me, I'll explain the reasons. First of all, this year we're in charge of one piece to cover the debt obligations made during the earlier period, and they've arrived for payment this year. Also, the majority of these obligations are obligations created by, say, foreign savings, so based on something that was spent in the previous period, so there's nothing left behind as reality, and now we have to return them. But economically speaking, when you withdraw credit to cover your old obligation, your debt does not increase. The effect is zero...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29016	It's been five minutes. Thank you. Gentlemen, I would like your attention to focus on the subject. Although budgeting is a couple of executive constitutional obligations, but every last Thursday of the month, and today is the day, we have the opportunity to ask questions as MPs on all topics, so I would focus your attention on today's topic. Would you like to ask a question, Mr. Ilic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29017	I'm very uncomfortable, Mr. President. While you were answering, you were looking at the balcony somewhere. You have not honored MPs who ask you questions at least one look. I don't know where you're looking at it all the time, but you've hidden your eyes away somewhere and you're responding to what's right for you right now. And it suits you to hang on, mumble and no one here understands anything. Did we take the loans or didn't we? Is this country in charge or not? The specific question – did the "Fiat" meet the contractual obligations or did he not pay one euro? What are you going to do with 700,000 hungry? Your media says so many are starving in Serbia right now, and this has been happening over the past year. So I asked you specifically. You've been telling me something, you've been beating me, you've been looking up, you've been looking down, you've been looking up, you've been there and you haven't answered anything. I'm asking you specifically -- are we going to bring back those three billion you're talking about "put here, put there"? It is said to be taken for the stability of the Serbian economy, so at least we were informed here. How could you assign a three-billion-euro state without ratification in this House and without a concrete spending programme? And where will the funds be? It doesn't matter where the funds are going to be. And the third thing, very important -- is it true that you accepted Kosovo entering the IMF and therefore got these three billion at a small door?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29018	Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29019	Let me tell you where I'm looking first. I'm looking at the monitor and I can see how much time I have left. If you want me to watch you, I can do it. But the monitor's up there, and that's why my eyes are up. Now let me tell you about the concrete question whether we accepted that Kosovo be admitted to the IMF and later to the World Bank. The answer is no. On the contrary, we have just advocated it. However, as some are likely to know, they operate on the principle that votes are proportionate to the roles. Of course, there are most of them and they've been admitted. But if we voted for it, save God. So that's not true. As for the question of how this loan is taken, what will be spent and why it is not ratified, I thought your economic advisors should answer you. This loan is not taken for cost, but taken for reserve. He doesn't waste at all. Because it's not being spent, it's not even being ratified here. And he's not being taken by the government, he's being taken by the National Bank. So he has nothing to do with the budget, nothing to do with the cost. He's just serving to show up at a crowd, to say that our foreign exchange reserves are bigger than they were. As for the question of whether or not we're in charge -- yes, we are, it's true that we're in debt, but we're in charge of two things. One is to pay back the debts that were previously made (that was the time I wanted to explain). We're in charge of returning, for example, the old foreign savings. This did not increase public debt because we now owe these new creditors, but we are not obliged to the old and the net effect is zero. Secondly, we were in charge of entering infrastructure construction. When we leave our children to pay off those loans tomorrow, we will leave them with the realities we have built. We'll say -- here, half the credit we paid back, half you'll get back, but here's the highway you'll be driving. By contrast, we are now paying back debts beyond which there are no other realities, and that is our main problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29020	The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29021	The President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, respected members of the government, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, I would first ask one general question – what is the topic of this session? We were preparing to discuss how the government applied the Constitution, in line with what the DSS colleagues were looking for, and now we are talking about loans, borrowing and how it is realised and whether it is actually realized. So, I would like a first answer to that general question – what is the theme of this session and is there any reason why we should prepare for the afternoon session? Because we from the LDP have also prepared questions for the afternoon session, and I see here questions are asked as to who they want. Now I'd like to go back on the subject. It was a bit surprising why at this point the theme of applying the Constitution by the government. In our opinion, the issues are European integration, as part of this fight against violence, etc. But we have also put these topics in the context of what the government's relationship to the application of the Constitution is. I'm going to ask a specific question, and first of all, I'm going to realize that there is no realisation of all of this that I've been talking about without organized justice. The specific question is: What about organized justice? In order for the judiciary to be organised, a network of courts must first be organised, and thus before that, authorities that will appoint judges and who will take care and exercise control of it. In particular, what about the High Judicial Council? Among other things, the intensity of the Constitution is to ask the profession and to apply the opinion of the profession. In particular, for the High Council of the Judiciary, the expert said what was going on, the Serbian Law Faculty Conference reached a unanimous decision, proposed by Professor Zoran Tomic, and suddenly the proposal is not on the agenda of the National Assembly. If a unanimous decision by the Council of Law is not an opinion of the profession, I don't know what the profession's opinion is. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to have to explain the reasons why I asked this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29022	Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29023	I would only answer this first question – what is the subject of this conversation and why are we answering? Of course this isn't a matter of borrowing. It may not be a formal subject, but she hurts the citizens. On the other hand, we are here to answer all the questions of the MPs. By the way, a question from the area was asked by a coalition MP who proposed the topic. Therefore, it is not for the government to tell you – sorry, we do not want to answer your questions. So we'll answer all the questions you want, and you see which questions you need to ask. As for the second question, I would ask Minister Malovic to give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29024	The word has Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29025	I appreciate the question. And the last two days I've been in this House, where questions have been raised about the organisation of the judiciary, but that wasn't on the agenda and I thank you for the opportunity to explain it now. As you know, at the end of last year, a package of judicial laws was passed that included organisational changes at the level of the judiciary, and with regard to the election of judicial officials, judges and prosecutors, as well as changes in the network. As far as the election of judicial officials is concerned, it is on the bodies, as you yourself have noticed - the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. I cannot go into whether it was on the agenda to select the remaining members of the profession and the lawyership and whether they are supported by parliament, because it is not the department of justice's jurisdiction, but the bodies that propose it, and also the parliament itself, whether it will give confidence to certain people or not. I can inform you that both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors are working at this point, the sittings are held daily, and I, as a member of both bodies, according to the Constitution, can tell you that the High Council of the Judicial Council and the State Major Prosecutors will fulfil their legal obligations with regard to the deadline, means that by December 1st judges will be elected in all courts in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the same applies to deputy public prosecutors. Perhaps your question was that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors are working in the back of the system. I agree that it's not a complete composition, but it's the same analogy as the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is working within 10 judges, the remaining five will be elected, which will be done by the formation of the Supreme Cassation Court, where the remaining five will be elected at the general session of the court. So, according to that analogy, even the Constitutional Court couldn't work. And to me, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and as Minister of Justice, it would be better to work fully, but we simply have deadlines under the law and we have to respect those deadlines. I also want to inform you of the primary jurisdiction of the Justice Department, which is the establishment of a network of courts. We're working on it intensively. The commissions provided for by the transitional and final provisions of the judicial laws, which should contribute to the establishment of work and the start of the new network of courts as of 1 January 2010. It is near the end of the court's rules of procedure, as one of the most important acts governing the internal arrangement and organisation of courts. The same applies to the Public Prosecutor's Department Regulation. During the following week, we will deliver this act to all courts and prosecutors, and then, with the previous consent of the President of the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor, we will publish that act. Also, there is a precise action plan for moving objects, archives and fixed assets. That's what we do in co-operation with the presidents of the court, the representatives of the judiciary. That also applies to public prosecutors. At this point, I can tell both you and the citizens of Serbia that in the second half of December, migration and physical events will take place. What I assume is also interested in the citizens of Serbia and you as MPs, it is also the equipment of the building and the start of the work of the building in Germany 9, in which the Supreme Cassation Court, the Administrative Court, the Industrial Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal in Belgrade should be located. The selection procedure for the furniture provider is under way. I expect that this will also be over by the end of this week and that the building's equipment begins, so that it can start working also as of January 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29026	Mr. Rangelovic, questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29027	Dear Prime Minister, we've received some kind of response from you that I can't be satisfied with. You said you'd answer all the questions you asked here. The Prime Minister is here, among other things, to promote order. It seems that only in Big Brother's house or in this House does not know what's going to happen next second. So if there's something going on, let's stick to the subject, and let's not get divorced, and instead of answering specific questions, we're giving explanations that don't concern this session. As for the answer to the question that I have asked about the judiciary, of course it stands for all that the Minister of State has stated, but the question is essential not only for the Ministry of Justice and the entire government, but also for the members of the ruling majority – why is it not respecting what you yourself declared by this bad constitution, and that is where you declared the opinion of the profession? And how can we support the autonomy of the university if the unanimous decision of the Dean's Conference is not relevant to you just because a single name and last name are not liked in the ruling coalition? So it's not just a question for the government, it's a question for everyone here. I would like to get an answer to that question, too, because the anomalies in society, among other things, also come from the failure of the duties of those to whom these duties are put in charge of this Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29028	Mrs. Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29029	I fully agree with you that the opinion of the profession, of course, should be respected. This was taken into account by the Ministry of Justice when it proposed judicial laws, especially the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, which is also prescribed a procedure for proposing by the profession. So, like I said, I can't get into whether certain proposals are being put in session and whether they are being supported by MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29030	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29031	Dear Serbian citizens, please don't think for a moment that you sent me to this assembly or that this government made me a stupid man, but I am ashamed of the appearance of the Prime Minister and I must say that on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. So, Mr. President, you who have a model by which every morning you put a smile back on your face because the situation in Serbia is getting better, now you laugh nicely, and you don't know how hungry, thirsty, naked and bare. This is where you got the loud applause, out of fear -- I'd say, when you accused the minister, I mean Velimir Ilic (you shouldn't say who) that you inherited some dubiosis on the roads. Just to remind you what the finance minister said the other day. She said she did not know how about 130 billion dinars per year were spent, which according to her, is the result of the inherited situation, so she said she had inherited an underresponsibly responsible fiscal policy and structural imbalance, so she said her own revenues were about 100 billion dinars per year and were mostly used outside the budget process, so she said that the budget had never been put into the way in which the funds were spent by project loans and donations and development aid from EU funds. Mr. Prime Minister, you were the finance minister at the time, this is an accusation at your expense. Diana Dragutinovic, of you, inherited 1.3 billion euros in dubiosis. It's interesting, just as much as the state doesn't control budget costs. Furthermore, you said that in 15-20 years there were four amendments to the Constitution, no one to tell you that Serbia only once changed the Constitution at that time, and that it created some fatigue, as if the Slovenians had settled the Balkans and said – well, now for a few years we won't do anything, we have traveled through Europe for a long time, now we need some rest. You have a 2006 Constitution. You've got three fine lawyers here. You're saying that they're contrary to the opinion of a lawyer. Are they contradictory opinions of lawyers in the government? Do they know about article 15? Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The general deadline for harmonising all laws with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was 31 December 2008, and this cannot be interpreted differently. Every law you didn't comply with goes to your burden and to your soul. Which minister will be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia because you do not respect the Constitution? I just walked past one of the wrong-parked cars. He's been photographed, a cop's arrived, a spider's arrived. Wrongly parked car goes to a special parking lot because it bothered other traffickers. And those of you who didn't establish anything, which was the deadline for the first and second sessions, Mrs. Dejanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29032	Time. Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29033	I haven't quite heard the clearly worded question, but I'll try to answer it in three ways, as I understand it. If I understand, you've made it clear that I've criticized and apostrophe, which is absolutely not true. First of all, I never speak that way, I just point out the fact. If you've recognized someone behind those facts and others have recognized someone, it's none of my business. I didn't call one person, I said the fact is that we inherited so much debt in that company. I said that these debts occurred in the period that was the take-off period of this economy, with a high rate of growth of gross domestic product, with high liquidity, and that unfortunately we were in crisis. Instead of coming out of high liquidity growth rates with some cash savings, we went in with dubiosis. I haven't apostrophe for anyone, and you can see each other for who's here for what and how guilty. Secondly, when it comes to the statement by the finance minister, as I am not apostrophe, I also do not interpret other people's statements. Everyone has a need and an obligation to interpret their statement. But this is about one particular attitude, which I share, and that's why I'm using this opportunity not to interpret her statement, but to stand behind that attitude. So, as a country in transition, we have in every respect the development of various systems, including the budgetary system. Our budget system is more transparent today than it was a year ago, a year ago it was more transparent than it was two years ago, it'll probably be more transparent in a year than it is now. In particular, 130 billion, these are funds made by budget beneficiaries and are outside the budget. To remind citizens, this is about funds which, for example, carry out colleges based on tuition and some of the other services they provide, there are funds that are made by courts based on taxes, etc. So these funds that are collected and amounting to around 130 billion dinars are assets that are essentially public revenues, but are not revenues seen in the budget and controlled by foreign budgets. A new system needs to be introduced in order to get them under the bat and control. This new system cannot be introduced until certain regulations change, and in this context we have recently had a change of the Budgetary System Act, which is one of the few basics that will give us the opportunity to have it. Let me tell you that the proposal for a new law on the budgetary system, precisely in order to do so, among other things, at a time when I was the minister of finance, was handed over to the assembly at the time, but was withdrawn from the agenda in front of the New Year for the adoption of the budget, and beyond that, the efficiency of the then assembly did not allow it to be adopted until today. Therefore, this is directly about one joint activity, not about private criticism. I don't know if you asked anything else, but you'll have a line, so I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29034	Mr. Nikolic, a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29035	You have now said, Mr. President, that the efficiency of the then assembly did not allow the law to be passed until today. I'd like to ask you to focus a little bit. Sit in front of the MPs, and these sessions must, according to the Rules of Procedure, be transferred by RTS. He probably wouldn't want to carry them, like he's completely closed to the public, but there he is. Now I'd like to remind you that as Director of the Privatisation Agency, you have performed all these privatisations that you would now like to arrest people. There are other lawyers next to you, they can remind you of the old Roman rule, by which it is completely property over things, and also acquired privatisation, and that in liberal capitalism the owner of the property can fully autonomously dispose of his property. The kind of contracts you made him, that's how he acted. The law you gave him, that's how you acted. He acted to buy, say, a huge six-war company to pay the first annual war, to sell the company's heart (if it's a five-story, sell the ground floor) to his daughter's firm, then turn to you and tell you - I can't pay anymore. You break the contract, the Agency can't sell it to anyone anymore. What's most valuable is no longer owned by that firm. Then he comes back and buys all that's left in just one war. That's your manners, Mr. Cvetkovic. All the money from the privatisation... How much did Dinkic say that only 700 more and a few million dinars were not spent? All the privatisation's been spent, there's nothing there. You can be arrested. You also arrested Raja Rodic, only because he criticised the government and Minister Dinkic for some crime eight years ago. Is that right? Maybe eight years ago you spit on the street or smoked in a room you weren't allowed in, Mr. Cvetkovic. So, I love that you've accepted here to discuss how much you respect the Constitution. Now, we won't have time, and this afternoon we'll remind you of what the agencies are doing to you, public enterprises, which are completely out of the Constitution, which you can't control at all. If I had some time, I would ask the Minister of Energy – how many energy permits have been issued at flows in Serbia for the construction of hydropower plants by one company, owned by your ministry's former official, and thus halted the process of construction of hydropower plants for at least two years, how much is the energy license worth, and without its consent no one can invest anymore? Or why did you stop investing in hydropower plants, in whose behalf are you doing it, whose damage is it, how much does Serbia lose and what is the name of this man...?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29036	I appreciate the question. Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29037	I'd like to comment on a few things you said at the beginning. First of all, I said that I didn't mention people when I said that I didn't mention people, and I don't use a guy's arguments at all -- if I don't have any arguments, then I'm going to call someone in private: you were like this or you were like that. I have no intention of doing that now. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, of course, I have nothing to say to you, except that the government stands firm in the view that the law must be respected and that all these arrests related to privatisations, which we have heard from the Vice President, have been made in accordance with the law. With regard to the efficiency of Parliament's work, is it now as effective as it was a year ago, there you and I obviously have the opposite attitudes. I have every praise for the parliament that is now here and for the way it works, and not only have I, but Parliament extends our reputation to other countries as well. If you think he had that same reputation a year ago, with the way he did it, I can accept it as your opinion, but not as my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29038	Mr. Skundric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29039	Mr. Nikolic, it is not true that this minister or this Ministry of Mining and Energy has stopped the investment process in renewable energy sources. The fact is that this ministry first joined the International Agency for Renewable Energy Sources, as did most of Europe's countries. That's the first one. Secondly, it is true that this ministry has made sublegal acts regarding the creation of legal frameworks for the use of renewable energy sources. And thirdly, all the energy permits required under the law have been reached during this year, since I led this ministry. It is true that no extension of five permits has been issued which have expired without doing anything in the course of two years. It's about earlier licenses. The investor did not use those two years to do what was planned and I did not sign an extension for those energy permits, because two years were enough for certain actions to be done and because two years were ruined in relation to a national good that was not put into office.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29040	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29041	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, having regard to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which say that the legal order of the Republic of Serbia is unique, that the Constitution is the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia and that all the laws and other general acts adopted in the Republic of Serbia must be in agreement with the Constitution, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all the Prime Minister of Mr Cvetkovic – what measures will the Serbian Government take on the fact that the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina contains a whole series of provisions that are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What is the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, it says in Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – "Autonomous provinces", therefore, and Vojvodina, "in accordance with the law, they regulate issues of territorial importance in the area: 1st spatial planning and development; 2nd agriculture, water industry, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, catering, spas and resorts, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river and rail transport and road planning, fairs and other business manifestations; 3rd education, sport, culture, health and social protection and public information at the province level". I remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, that in the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina, which was adopted exactly a year ago, it states, among other things, that Vojvodina is some democratic European region, to form its diplomatic representation abroad, that the Vojvodina Assembly makes decisions that have the power of law in the Vojvodina territory, that the AP Vojvodina has its own government, etc. These provisions are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so I ask you as Prime Minister – what are you going to do about this fact that the Serbian public in the Republic of Serbia is creating a new state in the country? Let me remind you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and you certainly know it better than I do, as it began in Kosovo and Metohija in 1981. In March, a group of Albanian students began protests because it allegedly wasn't enough quality food in the cafeteria at Pristina University. It ended with the bombing of the SRJ, the formation of NATO's Bondsteel base in KIM, and the banishment of hundreds of thousands of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I hope what's going on in Vojvodina today doesn't make you feel like you're some kind of a benevolent phenomenon at all. I hope you understand that all of this can be produced in something that, hopefully, no one here wants to happen, so I ask you, as president of the Serbian Government, and in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, there are two autonomous provinces and not two states -- what do you intend to do about the fact that your party colleagues in the Vojvodina Assembly and at the Vojvodina Executive Council were brought exactly one year ago by the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina...? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29042	Time, thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29043	I'd like to give an answer as far as I can, and for what I may not be able to ask my colleagues who are lawyers, since that's not my original profession. This is how I look at the whole thing. So, the Statute of Vojvodina brings the appropriate authority to Vojvodina, and then it is confirmed by this congregation. The government is not considering the statute, it is passing a law on the transfer of jurisdiction. The point is that the government's relationship to the statute is not direct, but indirect, by giving the bill and then seeing whether the statutes fit the law or not. What you can expect from me, or the government, is to give a balanced law that will manifest several basic ideas of this government. One basic idea is that decentralisation is at the very heart of this government, but also that decentralisation does not involve statehood. So, starting with these basic principles, which are also based on the Constitution, we are going to produce one such law. It's precisely because of the sensitivity of matter that we've been working on for so long, and fortunately, we're slowly approaching the end of that work. As for the question of whether certain provisions are constitutional or unconstitutional, you will allow not some persons to be declared in an amateur way, but there is an institution that gives its position on this, which is the Constitutional Court. Whatever he says is unconstitutional, of course it will be accepted. That's what I knew to say from my field, and now I'd ask Snow White to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29044	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29045	I want to convey my position on the draft law establishing jurisdiction, as I participate in the working group of the Government working on the draft law. It was precisely a wish, to fully respect everything the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted, or confirmed in this Parliament in 2006. The law will contain nothing less than exactly what you yourself stated, Article 183. The constitution but, of course, some other provisions. It has been announced from the AP Vojvodina, since we are in contact with their authorities when we draft this law, to carry out a certain legal-technical editorial of the statutes that could possibly remove certain inaccuracies that are presently present in it. You saw for yourself that the statute had not yet been found before parliament, and one of the reasons was that. As the Prime Minister stressed, I also expect both of these acts to be in front of you in the near term, and of course, after their adoption, as the president himself said, there is an authority that can decide whether certain provisions are constitutional or not. We, as Government, will strive to, as regards the law on determining jurisdiction, he fully respects the Constitution that we have all adopted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29046	The inquiry has Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not ask what the government minister thinks about this or what it is, but what the government's view of the fact that in the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is clearly creating a new state in the country. Since you, Mr. Cvetkovic, say you are not a lawyer, here, I will ask the lawyers in your government - and where did you government gentlemen read in general that the Constitution says that the National Assembly should pass some law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? You made that up to justify your colleagues in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The Constitution only states that the Duke's Assembly brings the statutes, which is in line with the Constitution, and nothing more. If the Constitution says that Vojvodina can have its own Academy of Sciences, if the Constitution says that Vojvodina should have diplomatic representations abroad, in Brussels, in NATO and the EU, if it says that Vojvodina can make decisions with legal force on the territory of Vojvodina, here, I am prepared to withdraw everything we have said in the SRS regarding the Statute of Vojvodina. But it doesn't say anything, Mrs. Malovic. That's the problem. You can't, as Government, say -- you know, someone else did. No, it was done by the same parties that now have their representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I know, there are not three democratic parties in Serbia, but one. And there are no three Socialist parties of Serbia or three parties of G17 plus. So, the same parties that voted in the Vojvodina Assembly for the anti-constitutional proposal of the Vojvodina Statute today constitute the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Malovic, you cannot say -- this law on determining jurisdiction will define the issues of Article 183 and some other issues. What it says in the Constitution, it's the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina. You can't legally extend what the Constitution says. Where's your constitutional basis for that? The Constitution clearly states what competences are, or which issues are governed by the AP Vojvodina. And that list is done, you can't expand it by some new business. There is therefore no constitutional basis for the adoption of some law establishing the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina. You made that up, as you invented it in 2002 in the government of Zoran Djindjic. The constitution only says that the Republic of Serbia can trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government to entrust certain issues within its jurisdiction. But it's no 2006 Constitution newspaper, it's also written in the 1990 Constitution. This does not mean that you can now give the AP Duke some powers that are not prescribed by the Constitution. I get the impression that you, Mrs. Malovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29048	Thank you. Mr. Svetozar Chiplic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29049	Dear People's MPs, a respected colleague of Martinovic, both likely and you, we who live in Vojvodina do not find some kind of separatist form of behavior and life, as the AP Vojvodina was and will be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time the most European part of Serbia. So there is no such thing as all Serbian citizens know, especially those living in Vojvodina, no intention, no action, no legal act that would separate Vojvodina from Serbia. There are, of course, fears and phobias, but we don't respond to fears and phobias. They're simply not the subject of this government's policy. On the other hand, what I think is important to answer, and on that question, and thank you, it's a question of this law on determining jurisdiction. And you and I both know that only the provisions of the Constitution concerning freedom and the rights of citizens are the provisions that apply directly. Other provisions of the Constitution are general enough that they are almost impossible to apply directly, so one legal order, and especially national seriousness, requires that a law of this kind be passed. Therefore, the law establishing jurisdiction is, in fact, a law laying down the provisions of the Constitution relating to the constitutional competences of the AP Vojvodina. This, of course, does not have to be explicitly written, but it can write clearly enough, as it says, and it says – autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, are sorting out issues of regional importance in the following areas. When this is said to be a legal technique that wants to be legally effective, and I think that's the idea of this Parliament, it wants all these areas in one place to clearly count, clearly defines, that there would be no such disputes afterwards. At the same time, any constitutional dispute will always be resolved by the Constitutional Court in an unequivocal and clear manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29050	Mrs. Snezana Malovic has a word. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29051	In my previous presentation, I made it clear that the law will not contain any more than it says in the Constitution. That, by the way, can be seen in stenographic notes. No one's wish is to extend or reduce the jurisdiction outside the Constitution and constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29052	National MP Gorica Mojovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29053	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, dear ministers, since I intend to stick to today's topic, you will allow me to quote a few views from the article. 86th and 87th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 86 states: "The public property is a state property, property of an autonomous province and property of a unit of local self-government", and the position of Article 4, Article 87, reads "The property of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, the way it is used and made available, is governed by law". So, I guess my question is clear – is it also in what phase, is it even planned to pass a law on public property, i.e. Does the Ministry at least carry out preparatory actions for the adoption of this law? I think it would be too much to explain today, I am making arguments why this law is, not only because of the respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but because of which political, economic reasons it is necessary to finally stop the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and the law on public property is passed. I wouldn't elaborate that any closer, but I'd put out a simple one and, I'd say, a rational circumstance. I don't think there's anyone in this room who's ever had any contact with the authorities of local self-government that can't tell some sad story about the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate about the slow process of obtaining consent to renting business space, transfers, etc. It is not only a question that someone in the Property Directorate is irresponsible, unsupervised, but simply impossible in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia to carry out those tasks for which the Property Directorate is in charge. So, even for this rational and simple reason, I think that political, economic and constitutional reasons are much more important and in this sense – is the law on public property being prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29054	Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29055	The Public Property Act was under way two years ago, about when I was Minister of Finance. Then, in light of the lack of the Law on Assets in the Republic’s possession, the first approach was to the Law on Public Property. But that time came the realization that the Law on Public Property is one part of the property reform complex and that this property reform complex covers at least three laws. One is the law of public property, the other is so called. The law on the fundamentals of property-legal relations and the third law on restitution. So these three laws were supposed to be passed in the package, and I thought we were at the end, and already various solutions were discussed. However, there turned out to be a lot of problems and a lot of different attitudes. Also, these laws are divided into two ministries, with public property remaining in the finance ministry, and the law on the foundations of property and legal relations went to the ministry of justice. That was the situation until a few months ago. A few months ago, given that the law on assets in the possession of the Republic has some negative effects and makes it impossible for state-owned enterprises to be available, because these funds are in their own country and then you have major problems both in privatisation and in some other activities that are important... Of course, I understand that for you, the important part about the local level of government, that property, the ability to collate, the municipal bonds, etc. So these are all the elements these laws need to resolve. The latest information I have since two or three months ago from the Ministry of Finance is that there are all conditions for this law to be completed by the end of this year, in order to be made public. I'd like to ask the Justice Minister to say how far this other one has arrived, on the basis of property relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29056	Mrs. Malovic has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29057	I want to add to the law on property relations. He was taken over a year and a half ago by the finance ministry. The Department of Justice founded a working group made up of our prominent professors from the area, then judges who work also in the litigation area. The first work version is made and is on the Justice Ministry website. After a longer public debate, since the length of the public debate requires, given that the law is very serious, I expect it to be on the agenda in parliament early next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29058	The word is Mr. Slobodan Samardzic. We're on our way with the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29059	Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to remind you of the government's obligation to protect Serbia's border. On 11 September, a representative of the government's interior ministry signed an agreement with EULEX on border management between Serbia and Kosovo. This agreement is, to remind you, signed in complete secrecy, but somehow the public has been informed of what the content of this agreement is. The deal was signed with Eulex, so with a mission that doesn't have an international legal basis. Eulex has no decision of the Security Council to come to Kosovo and replace Unmik. The basis of EULEX's presence is the approval of the Serbian government, and therefore the approval of the Security Council to come to Kosovo and replace... (Please, Madam Chairman, I can't speak if it's a noise. Don't take this time away from me. ) Therefore, this agreement is signed with an international mission that does not have an international legal basis. I will remind you that two or three days ago, the Swedish ambassador gave an interview to the daily "Today", where he said Serbia has obligations to establish border, customs and good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. The Swedish ambassador at this time is not at least who, in this country, is the representative of the European Union's Presidency, so Sweden. His statement didn't cause any government reaction. For our part, we, in addition to this mutual border control with Eulex, will sign a certain customs management agreement. I remind you that when EULEX signed this agreement on police co-operation, he requested and received the approval of the Kosovo government. That's definitely what he'll do when he sign the customs agreement. Also the agreement on justice, but the agreement does not touch the issue of borders. So, I'm interested in whether this government is taking care of Serbia's borders. It is not about the fact that some great force is taking part in Serbia's territory. It is a matter of the fact that Serbia is involved in this and that it accepts and approves the secession of the territory by its signatures and agreements with the Kosovo government. So that's my question. And just one observation. Mr. Prime Minister, I understand you're looking at the monitor when you're talking, but you don't have to look at the monitor when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29060	I give my word to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29061	You're also on the monitor and you're bigger there than you are like this, at least I can see you from here. But let me now give a serious answer to this question. So, on your question, if I understand it correctly, whether the government is taking care of Serbia's borders, I want to tell you -- yes, the government is taking great care of Serbia's borders, but it does not consider the line with Kosovo a border, but an administrative line. In that context, all our documents are signed and it's not called "border." I heard that you have problems that some institutions, let's say, Eulex talks to other institutions, which someone has said this or that, but basically that expression is a question of whether we intend to explicitly or implicitly recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. I would like to take the chance on your question to send the citizens a message that we will not take any steps towards recognising Kosovo's independence, either directly or through so-called congruent actions, indirectly. We're staying at our point of view. This government has several pillars of its policy. As you know, in addition to pro-European orientation, there is also a defense of sovereignty and integrity. It maintains this pillar of its policy in full capacity and will remain persistent on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29062	Thank you. You have the right to be questioned. FREE SAMARDZIC: My question is – where can the Serbian citizen be informed of the content of the police co-operation agreement with Eulex? Is there an agreement somewhere you can read it? Serbian citizens, however, had opportunities to read it as an unofficial version in a daily list. So one important thing is inaccessible, as far as I can see, and I think I know why it's not available -- precisely because of this terminology that you're using so fast right now. You say you sign agreements where the term "administrative line" stands out. That, Mr. Prime Minister, is not true. There are two expressions in this agreement. One term "border" in the international sense and one that implies "administrative border". Therefore, it is on the will of either side, Belgrade and Pristina, to interpret it as they will. But the fact that the Serbian government has signed an agreement that opens up the possibility that this word is used as a border in international terms, "borderr", as it says in the original text, is actually talking about what I want to say here, which is that the Serbian government is taking part in the process of taking Kosovo away from Serbia, regardless of what it is talking about or not talking about whether it will recognise Kosovo or not. The second question about this is - what will the government do about the distinction between Macedonia and Kosovo, so between Macedonia and our border in Kosovo? We had the opportunity to read a sharp demarch of the foreign minister, but no action followed after that demarch, at least the public is not familiar with it. Please inform us – what is the Government doing and what will it do to prevent this action? Gentlemen, before I give my word to the distinguished prime minister, let me inform you that the students of the 15th Belgrade High School attend the gallery, within the practical teaching of the subject of the Constitution and the rights of citizens. Let's say hello. Now he has the word of our Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29064	As far as I'm aware, this agreement has no confidentiality mark, it's available. Since there's no minister of police to say, and I don't know if there's an agreement on the site, but if you want, we'll send it to you. Although, I believe you have it. Whoever wants to, can do anything that's not within the scope of a confidential request, or we can hang him on the site. I have to check. I really don't know what this is about. As far as Macedonia is concerned, you have heard this demarcation that represents our political stance on their activities. But on the other hand, you have to understand that, in addition to disagreement, we have an obligation to enable people living on KIM, regardless of nationality, to have a normal life. By respecting the principles of international law, which we are firmly adhered to and under which we will not recognise Kosovo's independence, we still do not use that attitude to make life worse for someone. Therefore, it is actually government policy, which will fight all diplomatic and other means of peaceful character against recognition and independence at all. We expect to open the process of re-negotiation and negotiations on Kosovo's future status in The Hague, following a decision by the International Court, and we are ready to enter the process before it is discussed. But, on the other hand, we have to take all the pragmatic steps that people can normally live, not raise some of the misery, shut ourselves down and go back to the 1990s, when we were under sanctions and when we were practically lonely, the only country on the planet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29065	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29066	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, at the beginning of this three-minute question I want to share with you a feeling that I believe you feel. It's my human feeling. I feel ashamed and ashamed of 700,000 people hungry and because of an empty plate every night that shows up on one television with a national frequency. And I have responsibility for it, as a People's MP, but my responsibility and your responsibility are not the same, yours is much greater. That's why I'm here. It's my job to ask you some questions on behalf of the citizens. Maybe it's because there's not enough money that people are starving, but I'm saying that the money in this country, it's the only one that isn't justly distributed. It used to be called social distribution. The financial crisis? In our country, it's not a financial crisis. In our bank state last year, as I recall, they had 400m euros in winnings. So that I don't get through these three minutes, I'm asking you specifically, and I'm asking you to answer specifically. Regardless, Mr. President, of all the threats I've had in the last 30 days, everyone here knows I'm not giving up any questions until I get an answer. So, do you know that your Director of the Government's Office for Joining the EU is the owner of a 25% company, which operates with public enterprises? Do you know about this information? Mr. Prime Minister, it's hundreds of millions of euros. I've been asking that question for a month. Some agencies gave me an answer. I hope the finance minister gave you the paper I gave her here in direct transmission a few days ago at the session. It's about Telekom. It's that public firm, Mr. Prime Minister, to remind you, which, at the time it showed a profit of 100m euros, increased the service 63% to the citizens. It is about an adviser to the president of the Republic who has 11 employees in his firm, with a income of tens and tens of millions of euros. Will you, as an economist, whom I believe to be a professional and an honest man, believe me that I think so, allow Srdjan Saper, now included in the hundred most important Serbs, for whom poor Serbian citizens should vote in one of his media, with 11 people can earn as much as you pray for the IMF for days and various institutions? Will you, as a graduate economist, former finance minister, former director of the Privatisation Agency, allow him to give a lecture to all economists in this country? Or why don't you as a government make an agency with 11 people and make that kind of money? Then we wouldn't have to beg the Americans or the Russians or anyone. Please, I'm not giving up. I repeat, I have terrible threats, but I certainly won't give up. I fear the Lord God and his son and no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29067	Thank you. It's been three minutes. Mr. Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29068	Mr. People's MP, I expect from this session to provide citizens with information about what the government is doing, what its problems are, what its successes are, what it is expected, what it has done and what it is not. You're opening the question of the person "ix", the person "pission". I happen to know what the situation is with these people, but I just don't want to answer that question, because it's below the level of this high house where we are. If there is any, in your opinion, conflict of interest, anything that is against the law, please, file it with the relevant institutions and wait for them to do so. These are the right places, and here let's discuss how to get into the EU as soon as possible, what we need to do to better defend our sovereignty, how to make citizens live as best as possible. You've got a very good start on that question, we have to fight for a better life for the citizens, not to be hungry. I can tell you, when you gave me the opportunity, that this government's efforts to stabilise the country's situation actually produced excellent results, if compared to the countries in the environment. In the era of the financial crisis, in 2009, when our country achieved negative growth, i.e. the decline of gross domestic product by 3%, in other countries, the situation is the following: Hungary -6.7%, Romania -8.5%, Bulgaria -6.5%, Croatia -5.2%, Slovakia -4.7%, Turkey-6.5%, Spain -3.8%, and not to mention the coastal republics, which had minus 14-18.5%. So that's what this government is doing and that's what we need to talk about. If you have individual cases, with names and last names, I suggest you contact the authorities responsible. I'm very surprised by your complaint that you have personal threats. I take it as a very serious thing, and I'll pass it on to the Minister of Police, to examine who you are, in what way and for what reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29069	Mr. Markicevic has a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29070	If nothing else, we've heard one statement from the Prime Minister -- that he knows the answer to these questions I've been asking for a month, but he won't answer. Mr. President, what I've been saying for the past month isn't a political pamphlet of a red gang, a yellow gang, a blue gang. This is data from the Agency's business register website. It's a state institution. It says here that in four years from someone's arrival in power, these people have had 50,000 percent increased incomes. It's unrecorded in the world. Even if all this were so right, how should the citizens conclude from your previous exposure, I ask you why the government doesn't create an agency with 11 employees and make 200m euros? Do you know what that is? That's the 200 million-dollar part or the euro that the Russians need to give us for the budget. They're not small funds. And you didn't answer my question why, then, a public company that shows profits increases the price of services to the citizens 63%. That surprised all of Serbia last year at this time. Now we see why. Those funds are being poured into private pockets. All these advertising agencies... You don't think the citizens know that? The media won't show it. The public service is connected to this, which is why it's not in the Dnevnik at half past seven. It's a monopoly, Mr. Prime Minister. You're telling me now - I've put up with everyone. They're afraid, too, and they tell me openly. Radyukko, have you heard of Raduk? He called us to the party. Do you know what he said? He said -- it's true, the monopoly is concluded with these companies whose owners are these people, between them and Telekom, but it's not his fault. And he's been working on those contracts for a year and a half. Tell me who's to blame. I'm not interested in my brother being born. There's a lot of money. Just from what Telekom gave these companies, I think half these 700,000 people would be reduced, if they weren't starving, and the country wouldn't be humiliated, and all of us together humiliated to watch an empty plate every night. I don't give a shit about that. I feel responsible, but you have mechanisms and authority and coercion and police and everything, so why don't you investigate this? Why don't you answer these questions, but tell me here in person, both for me and for the citizens of Serbia -- I know the answers to those questions, but I won't tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29071	Mr. Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29072	I'll be very brief. We have a different perception of what this home needs to do. This home needs to pass laws, control the government and ensure that this country achieves what is most needed. As for individual names, of course that's important, but let the authorities do that. I invite them to work if there's anything there, but it's not about this home and that's why I don't want to talk about individuals. If there's anything, there are competent authorities and let them handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29073	Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29074	Dear Presidency, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me, Mr Cvetkovic, why we MPs and you government have a different perception of what Parliament should do, but we also have, obviously, a different perception and what the Government should do. I have to say, in Article 123. The constitution, the government's jurisdiction, is nowhere to be found by the government to deal with a private initiative. How else do we call it a deal? You arrested the doctors the other day for 65 million because they bought something with a direct contract. Why didn't you arrest whoever sold NIS through a direct contract, past all the laws? So, by direct contract, at what cost. And what did we get? We got the most expensive gas in the region, a 63% increase last year, we got the highest gas prices. You need to tell the citizens that the last roundup... Mr. Skundrich, I see you laughing sweetly, last time I asked you who determined the price of fuel, what did you say? You said it was determined by the one who manages the NIS 100%. They raised the price of oil processing, she jumped the price at the pumps, and that's how it's always gonna be. Furthermore, I am interested in how the government can order one public enterprise, which is one of the biggest losers, which is "Serbiagas", to buy Belgrade's "Informatics". What's Srbigas doing in Belgrade's Informatics? I can ask myself whether maybe because a lot of money has been allocated from the NIP one day to build a 'Banatical Court' and given to NIS, so now NIS as its investment leads to these huge millions that it has received from our country, but it is managed by 51% of the owner, i.e. the Russian. That maybe that Belgrade Information won't need the Russians someday, so it'll be like the '90s -- you'll get gas, you can pay whenever you want, but we're setting up governments, we're determining politics in this country? I'm interested in whether you asked President Medvedev any questions regarding Serbia's debt to Russia, as regards gas, which occurred during the 1990s. I'm deeply convinced you're not. And that debt is greater than the value of "Srbigas". I'm interested, Mr. Cvetkovic, as you comment, in saying that we are in a crisis all the time and that we should be saving, you want to show as a large form of saving the release of citizens, and then in the largest city in this country someone decides to buy a building for two billion. He's allowed the statute of the city. Well, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29075	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29076	I will try to answer what is most essential here from Parliament's point of view, and regarding the technical issues about gas, I will ask Minister Skundric. (Free Marash, from the scene: I asked you. ) The key question that you have asked here is – how was it possible to sell NIS without law and without a public tender or some transparent procedure? I want to inform you that the documents brought by this assembly actually have the power of the law, even if it is not formally called the law, but perhaps an agreement or otherwise. So, before the sale of the NIS was made, this parliament ratified, namely, a co-operation agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation, and the agreement envisioned what you are now talking about. So it's simply not true, because of the public, that NIS was sold without a tender, in a way that now someone's being installed, and that when someone else does it, they get arrested. So what I want to say to you is that I insist on the transparency of the process, I insist that all processes are carried out in a way that has the right to have everyone involved, so let them win who's best. The exception is the processes defined by this National Assembly. The National Assembly has defined the process, which is the basis for the transaction. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Peru to say something about gas and prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29077	Mr. Skundric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29078	I think the prime minister very precisely explained the procedure and legality of the process that Mr. Maras was talking about. So this assembly has brought lex specialis into the form of an agreement that the government has implemented. That's the answer. Although I did not participate in the first phase of these jobs, I believe it is a very good job that the Republic of Serbia has done. It is strategic business, of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia, and we are seriously different on these issues. I can respect Mr. Marash's differing opinion. He believes that we are selling part of sovereignty through strategic arrangements, not wanting to say that the same such arrangements are right and EU countries, that the EU also depends on the energy products it buys from the Russian Federation. More than 42% of Russian gas is placed in the EU, over 1/3 of oil is placed in the EU from the Russian Federation, more than 25% of coal is sold in the EU, and no one in the EU because of that and because of the strategic arrangements that Germany and Italy have made does not say that they have sold their sovereignty through energy affairs. So, we did a good job. This good job is being looked at, among other things, through investments that have been started in the sector, and you know very well how much we as a state are doing in the part of the oil industry. And it's not true that NIS determines the price, the price determines the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29079	Thank you. Mr. Marash has a question. Mr. Prime Minister, I have asked you questions. Do not constantly push Mr Skundric to give me the same answers that are completely incorrect. Mr. Skundrich, you said this job was good. But for who? Well, for the Russians. It's good for Russia. Don't mention the EU here. Everything you said about the South Stream isn't true. There are no 200 million euros from taxis. He doesn't charge state taxes, they're charged by the company. The Russians will own 51% of the South Stream in Serbia. What kind of profit it's going to show up at the end of the year, we know how it went for NIS. So don't fool the citizens anymore, we've got enough salt in our heads to know that what you're saying isn't true. What about Jugorosgas? This is good for them. Stop the middleman. I don't really want to talk to you about it anymore. I just want the Prime Minister to say one simple thing to me. Please be specific. Why did you decide in the government that "Srbigas" must buy Belgrade's "Informatics"? Please have so much respect for the MPs that once you answer specifically. You chaired that cabinet session, that decision was made. For what? What kind of interest is that? I don't want to mention that you're forcing "Serbigas" to buy failed companies. The world's largest firms can fail, but no company in Serbia can fail, but the biggest loser will buy it, and here 130,000 euros will give to trumpeters. Give me a concrete answer - why did you order "Serbiagas" to buy Belgrade's "Informatics"? Since I have another minute and 15 seconds, I need to tell you one more thing. Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister, when we had budget rebalances here, promised Mr. Pastor after a phone call, was here in the hall with you, that the law on the transfer of jurisdiction would be by the end of June. It's October now. You can wave youth all you want. The point is, return the property to municipalities and provinces, transfer jurisdiction, bring the statutes. These are your obligations, as we speak in the constitutional obligations of the government. Please give a concrete answer, five words is enough. Why did you order the public company "Srbigas" to buy Belgrade's "Informatics"? Mr. Cvetkovic, then Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29081	First, I have to say I have ministers because they know areas better than I do. If I knew all the areas, then we wouldn't need ministers, I'd be the minister of both this and that. Therefore, giving the ministers my word is, in fact, my desire to go out to the best extent possible to meet the questions of the MPs. It's very simple. As for the specific question, there was a proposal at the government, which had one appropriate explanation. The government accepted the proposal. As far as the argument is concerned, Mr Skundric knows him better than I do, since he prepared him for the government. That's why I'm giving him my word that he's giving the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29082	Mr. Minister Skundric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29083	I would ask Mr. Marash not to give the courts that someone is cheating, and it is that the energy minister is misleading the Serbian public regarding the arrangements and transactions the government has received from this parliament. The South Stream is not a bilateral agreement between the Russian Federation and Serbia. South Stream is an international project. It is a trans-European project involving Serbia. The minister has never talked about the amount of funds to be charged for passing the gas. I was just saying that for sure, as a state, we would benefit. I never mentioned any sums. So, please don't mention 200 million I never mentioned. Ask that question to those who said certain things. It is about projects that this government has implemented based on what the Assembly has established under an agreement that has the power of law. And we're ready for every part to bear full responsibility for what's been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29084	Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29085	Ladies and gentlemen, according to information from the media, concerning the talks with the IMF, the following can be concluded – that a reduction is scheduled or agreed, so-called. savings, compared to the 1.5 billion dinar maternity fee, or about 16m euros. It's also scheduled to drop pensions or profits, that's what it's called. freeze, of about 10%, because that is the amount of inflation in January-September of this year and envisions tightening the conditions for family pensions. Finally, a budget deficit of 4% of GDP is foreseen, although it is in America over 10% In this context, I have no illusion that this government has no courage, such as Russia, for example, to increase pensions by 30% next year, or to touch additional local self-government by 36%. However, I wonder if, in those negotiations with the IMF, you mentioned, at least as a possibility, that foreign banks, monopolies on our market, are being further taxed, as it is generally known that only in Serbia is possible to retroactively increase the margin on the repayment of loans already granted. It's nowhere to be found. Generally known that in our country margins are about 4.5-7%, and in the West 1-2%. Also, I ask the prime minister specifically to answer me – did you perhaps consider the IMF option, and if so, did they object, did you not mention that, further taxation of Delta? As you know, it is a monopoly on the Belgrade market. We have just seen that two years of work are even celebrated, 17 million visitors in one of the facilities in New Belgrade. You also know they have revenues of about three billion euros a year. Please give me a concrete answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29086	Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29087	I've tried to get the essence of the question, and I think there are two of them. One question concerns monopolies and the other concerns whether an increase in deficits and an increase in pensions is being considered and how they are talking to the IMF. As far as the IMF is concerned, I'd like to inform you that the talks are ongoing and that they cover mostly three segments. One segment is the 2009 budget, the second is the 2010 budget and the third segment is a sustainable fiscal policy in the medium term. When it comes to this first one, in 2009, there are views agreed two months ago. The year 2010 is now in line. We're very close, I think it'll probably be in the afternoon talks and it'll be agreed. At the beginning of next week, we will discuss a viable and sustainable policy on the medium term. So with great optimism, we work together, and I think it'll be a success. Why not go to an option to raise salaries or pensions and increase deficits? The reason for this is that for the amount of deficits you achieve in current consumption, and the deficit (to remind you, or to explain to the citizens) is the difference between what comes to you as income and what you spend. When you have a deficit, you spend more than your income. If that deficit, that surplus cost, you have to cover it, you have no place to go but out of debt. If you focus that deficit on building, then you're in charge of building something and it stays behind us for generations, then that's okay. If the deficit occurs to you as a result of current costs, then you are practically in charge of financing current costs and leaving it to future generations. For this reason, it is not good to increase current expenditures and then regenerate a deficit that would be additionally financed. As far as monopoly issues are concerned, philosophy is not to introduce monopoly taxes, but philosophy is to destroy monopolies. It means that it is impossible for them to exist, in which the destruction of the monopoly goes through the appropriate authority, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission or the Commission to protect competition, which your parliament has chosen and which, in fact, is an independent regulatory body of the government. The competition law you passed two or three months ago and it should be about a month or so ago, I'm not sure about the deadlines, it needs new people who will deal with it to be set up, and then they'll be more efficient than the body could have been. They now have much better legal solutions and will be able to fight all those who are monopolies, no matter what they are called. I thought Minister Skundric would answer the question of Informatics. I personally can't remember what the argument is, but I don't think it's confidential, so I'm going to take it, bring it to you and give it to you to see what are the reasons for the government to run it. After all, the government is making a lot of decisions. If you're interested, you can inform yourself of other decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29088	Mr. Mirovic has a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29089	Unfortunately, I have to realize that you haven't specifically answered my key question. I asked you about the Delta Company as the biggest monopoly in this country, and I ask you to answer me specifically whether you're going to introduce an additional tax. Because, as you know, the company has revenue from selling 3 billion euros a year and pays a tax of 200m euros. That's their data, that's Mrs. Forcan's statement. So please give me a concrete answer to that question. You were talking about destroying the monopoly. You may have thought of the Delta Company, but you as prime minister should say this specifically, and in that sense you will have our support, if, by any miracle, you choose to take such a step. You haven't specifically answered my question about foreign banks. I think you should show some kind of economic courage, as the new Bulgarian government has shown. For example, they additionally punished Raiffeisen Bank with 2.5m euros because it acted incorrectly on the Bulgarian market. It takes such brave steps to take, and then everything will be better for both our citizens and our budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29090	Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29091	I was convinced that I answered, but now let's formulate it a little differently. The legal system is not made for individual market participants, but is made as one general norm, which is an obligation for all. Therefore, if you ask me if there will be a special law to tax the Raiffeisen Bank or the Delta -- no, it won't. There is already protection of the market from monopoly. I explained that a commission should be formed, and she will consider whether there are monopolies or not, and if there are, she will introduce appropriate sanctions. The punishment you've been talking about is the one we've given this committee the first chance to impose punishment on. So far, the commission could talk about how someone is a monopoly, so no, so someone could sue them, so it goes to court, so the court can make this decision or that decision. Now the commission is given a slightly greater right, that it can impose penalties, and whether someone will be declared a monopoly or not, I'm sorry, it's a matter of a particular body to which it's part of the task.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29092	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about an hour ago - an hour and a half ago, the Prime Minister said that this government stands firm in the view that the laws must be respected. If we're going to accept that, then I'm interested in the government's position. Namely, Mr Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, at the 5th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, which was held on 28 December last year, raised a concrete and clear question as to whether and when unintended funds were returned to the Belgrade City budget, and according to the budget inspection of the Ministry of Finance, the record number and so on. The answer came that the city of Belgrade, or the City Administration, had not notified the Budgetary Inspection and Audit Sector of the Ministry of Finance by 12 January 2009 that it had implemented the measures imposed by the minutes of 401-00-00591/03 and the relevant solutions for the return of funds to the city's budget by five basiss, totalling 146.568.790,27 dinars, which was confirmed by the subsequent insight of the budgetary inspector, carried out on 12 January 2009. Following the control of the use of the city's budget for the period 2001-2002, the record was made up of the number, which imposed six grounds on the return of funds to the city's budget totalling 147,568,790,27 dinars. As the town of Belgrade, the City Administration, failed to report that it had acted according to the minutes, the Financial Ministry's budget inspection and audit sector has also ordered a solution to the number since 25 August 2004. Following a complaint made to that solution, the finance minister in the second instance reached a solution number 401-00-00-00591, since 20 October 2004, confirming the first-degree solution of five out of six, totalling 146,568,790,27 pairs. At the resolution of the finance minister, the city of Belgrade, the City Administration, filed a lawsuit to the Supreme Court of Serbia, which by verdict number U 5536/04, since 13 July 2006, was rejected as a whole. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, if we go back to what you said first, that the government is firmly in the view that the laws must be respected, do we perhaps come to the essence of the problem in Serbia, which is precisely a lack of respect for the law and a lack of responsibility? Because how else do you interpret the fact that these 147 million dinars, how unintentionally spent from the budget of the city of Belgrade, have obviously not yet been returned?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29094	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29095	Dear Mr. People's MP, if I wanted to make a joke, I could ask you what number of the verdict you gave me, I didn't understand, 5506 or 5507. But if I were to say seriously, this really isn't the address for relations with the city of Belgrade, and I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29096	Mr. Jeremic has a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29097	If I'm not mistaken or if I can make a joke, you must be the president of the Serbian government, as far as I know. Or maybe we're joking, I really don't understand. So it's about 147 million dinars. You have a decision from the finance ministry, you have a decision from the Serbian Supreme Court. You're the Prime Minister. Are you the most responsible for law enforcement, first of all the Constitution, in this country and determining responsibility for some of the things that are happening?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29098	Mr. Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29099	Let me just say that I understand that the Assembly is responsible for the control of law enforcement, but come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29100	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the list who hasn't used his right to take part in asking questions? Yeah. ( b) Messengers who want to participate in the second round are also reported. These are Mr. Martinovic, Mrs. Tabakovic instead of Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Krasic instead of Vladan Jeremic. Only those who have been reported may speak, or if you want to be honest with one another. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29101	My question just referred to the Prime Minister, who came out, but he'll take a stenogram so I guess by 4:00 and read it. I will remind you that the Constitution, which today is the topic, in Article 122, says that the Government is the holder of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia and that by Article 124. The government is responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the enforcement of laws and other general acts and for the work of the authorities of the state administration. So, something got a little mixed up. I'd like to return them to the constitutional frameworks. We thank you for the commendation received from the prime minister for working in the Assembly, but things, in terms of responsibility, stand the other way around. In that sense, I would like, as an MP, to ask a question - whether the Government intends or may have already taken the necessary action to apply Article 137. The Constitution, where it will bring into line with the Constitution of the Law on Public Agencys and the business of agencies in our legal system, according to Article 37. The Constitution - "that certain public powers can be entrusted by law to companies, institutions, organisations and individuals, but only by law and by special bodies through which regulatory functions can be achieved in certain areas or activities"? The sharenil of those public agencies and organisations in the most diverse legal forms of organization that exist in this country is our problem, and that is why we are talking about 130 billion uninvolved money today, precisely because these companies accept the government as the founder when it gives them money to start them, but they do not accept it as a place where they need to merge the revenues of these companies that exercise the public authority of these bodies, organisations or whatever they are called. So, not from the whim, not from the requirement to satisfy a purely legal form, but from the necessary need for what little money exists in this country to be justly deployed, I ask the Government to fulfil the constitutional obligation to entrust public authorities only, in the field of regulatory action, as the Constitution prescribes, and most recently here in the Assembly comes with a bill of law. Because experience teaches us that in this assembly only the Government as a proposing can expect its bill to be on the agenda. Otherwise, under other circumstances, MPs who understand this necessity might do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29102	Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29103	I'm not sure I understood your question very well. As far as trusting public authority is concerned, we do not have any unconstitution in our legal system. Public powers shall be entrusted by law in accordance with the Constitution and entities which may be the holders of public powers. When it comes to the affairs of the state administration itself, they are also entrusted with the laws and yet only those entities that, in accordance with the Constitution, can be the holders of these entrusted affairs of the state administration, which is defined by the State Administration Act. But something else is completely right in your question. The fact is that there are a large number of bodies, organizations, different organisational forms, so that we do not now specify, which perform and individual public authorities, and the government for the first time has come to us to have one comprehensive reform of the public system, which starts from the state administration itself, through local self-government, then there is a system of education, a system of health and, of course, a system of public agencies and public enterprises. And the prime minister once said that the issue may well exceed the mandate of a government, but this government will begin it, or has already begun it in such a way that, I would say, it is a irrevocable character. Therefore, everywhere there are duplications, where there is an irrational attitude of public entities, it will be resolved in the future, and in particular, I would like to point out that there is a comprehensive reform of the rules, that it is at the very end and that, as things stand now, it will produce truly exceptional results. It's interesting that it's not just the government. I'd like to commend a number of units of local self-government that also executed that so-called. The guillotine regulations, i.e. regulation reform, and that may be the best way to achieve really much in some short time (when I say short term, I mean two to four years). In any case, this government is, why don't you say, the first to launch these processes, and these processes already have their own bodies in certain laws that are on the agenda of this assembly, if I'm not mistaken, but on Monday or Tuesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29104	The right to ask questions has a national MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29105	I do not believe, Mr. Markovic, that you are not informed that there is an unconstitutional behaviour in this regard, because Article 137. The Constitution of Article 3 states that public powers can be entrusted by law to special authorities. Evidence that there is at least one, and there are several such bodies or bodies is the Civil Aviation Directorate, which has been incometing from 2003 to today 500m euros at the expense of state sky control, retains revenues and the state has no dinars. What's unconstitutional about that? It is not an organ, it is a 2003 joint organisation of Serbia-Montenegro, which changed its founder by name only, and it is the Republic of Serbia, as a follower, but on March 25th 2008, the Council of Directors, in which the defence, police, infrastructure and finance ministers sit, decided to assign the body to the work of monitoring the country's sky. As the Government's right to establish such an organ is inadmissible, so the Directorate cannot assign himself a job that cannot be assigned to it by the Constitution. It's not regulatory business, it's surveillance business. So what is usurpation is, on the one hand, a mockery of the state. In that decision, published on 25 March, at the time of the 2008 Pre-election Actions, the Directorate, whose Council has decided, calls for decisions on the establishment of the Council and, believe it or not, on Article 22. The ministry law, then valid, published in the "Official List" 43/2007. And this Article 22, you know what he regulates? - The jurisdiction of the Diaspora Ministry. And if it wasn't tragic, that would be funny, because that council is sitting again five ministers per function that I have cited, and it helps work, i.e. avoiding the payment of revenue of these huge amounts, not in the budget, not for the reform of this country, not for the development of infrastructure, but for the very specific individuals, who are out of control of the state system. So, directly unconstitutional, because it's not a state body. If it were a state body, its income would be public income and I think your knowledge of the rights and economies should characterize this and an event that requires urgent state action in terms of the adoption of legislation, but also for serious capture of such a situation, not insubordination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29106	Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29107	I suggest that this, as a particular question, be taken into consideration by the MP's question to the government. I just want to remind you, I really don't know the particular situation you're talking about, but when it comes to individual organs, they are equally subject to ratified agreements. I think there's an answer to your question, but at the very least, why should you and I now take it further? I suggest you go to the authorities, who are assigned to that area, so they will give an adequate answer to your specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29108	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm sorry, MP, I won't be counting your time. Just so we're clear, it's the course of the session now that every MP's group is asking its second question. When the second one is finished, then each parliamentary group, the same MP or whom the parliamentary group wants, will have the opportunity to ask a third question. So MP Aleksandar Martinovic will have the right to speak for three minutes and 30 seconds, because in his time I gave an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I have to look back on what Mrs Malovic said, which is simply not true. So, Mrs. Malovic, the Vojvodina Assembly can no longer perform any, as you say, legal-technical editorial of the text of the Vojvodina Statute Proposal. The Duke's congregation did what it did, and it can't be fixed anymore. You have two options before you as a government, or as a ruling coalition. One possibility is that such an anti-constitutional proposal of the statute enters into the procedure of the Serbian Parliament as it is no longer possible to change, and you know it well, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, so to enter into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and then the NSRS refuses to give consent to the proposal for the Statute of the Vojvodina that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second option exists is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia orders the assembly of the AP Vojvodina to approach the development of a completely new text of the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, but this time such a proposal will be in line with both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its positive laws. This third option, which you have talked about and talked about in public for several months now, about how you are now negotiating with representatives of the AP Vojvodina about some kind of legal-technical editorial of the text of the Vojvodina Statute proposal, is not legal. It is not envisioned by the Rules of Procedure of the Vojvodina Assembly or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is again something that this government invented to justify the fact that a year ago, a proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina that is directly opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly. Our question, as parliamentary groups, is as political parties, as well as a question of interest to all citizens not only of the Vojvodina but also of Serbia – will the Serbian government not be able to observe what is happening in the territory of the AP Vojvodina or will it react? Mr. Chiplic has taken a position of some kind – we do not want to detach Vojvodina, Mothers dear. Excuse me, are we working here under the Constitution and the law or on some of your promises? I'm not saying that you specifically, or Mr. Ciplic, intend to secede Vojvodina from Serbia, but allow, Mrs. Malovic, in Vojvodina and van Vojvodina, abroad, and that there are political forces who would like it to happen. Even the citizens of SFRY in 1974, when a new constitution was passed, they didn't want war to happen, so it happened...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29110	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the members of the government, ministers, want to give an answer? Yeah. ) The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29111	I thank you for your comments, and I agree with you that such a situation is not regulated, if we speak literally of a legal-technical order. But if an authority, in this case the AP, has brought and adopted the draft statutes, then that authority can certainly make certain changes and additions that would have the legal-technical nature that we were talking about. They are, as long as it is not found on the agenda of this congregation, possible. I'm not saying it's gonna happen, I'm saying it's possible. I agree with you on the issue of the secession of the Vojvodina. I don't think anybody wanted it to go that way. If there were certain groups in mind, it would certainly be a violation of the Constitution of this country and the principles of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the Prime Minister pointed out, and I, too, tried to point out in my discussion that the law establishing the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina would be such that it would contain what the provisions of our Constitution, which we all voted for together.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29112	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29113	The Serbian Radical Party, Mrs Malovic, of course, is not satisfied with the answer. Does this mean that when a vote is completed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and some law is passed before it is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the National Assembly has the right to conduct a legal and technical editorial of the text? If you tell me where it says it, here, I'll believe it. It doesn't say anything. Now the government is playing "deaf phones" with Serbian citizens. The mass of things doesn't say anything, but, well, we think that's how it should be done. We, as a political party, are asking for an answer from the government. Don't find yourself offended, Mrs. Malovic, but these answers of yours seem to me like – what little Perica thinks about what it says in the Constitution of Serbia. Serbia's constitution is clear and no one can play with the adoption of the Vojvodina statutes. It is indisputable that the Statute of Vojvodina should be brought and that the deadline for its adoption has long expired, but a constitutional statute of the Vojvodina should be brought, not a constitutional one. You, as a government, have found yourselves in defenseless grapes. You were brought to a difficult situation by your party comrades in Vojvodina. You know very well, as we know in the SRS, that what it says in the Vojvodina Statute is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And now you're trying to get them out of this problem in some way, to use a jargon expression. How do you get them out? By saying - well, we agree on a legal-technical order of text, or you say - well, we will pass a law, so what is eventually not in accordance with the Constitution, and it says in the statute, will be governed by this law. It can't do that. Sure, but then it's a violation of the Constitution. Yeah, but then there's no rule of law anymore. And the question is whether there will ever be Serbian states if you play with some very important issues in this way. Don't take this, Mrs. Malovic, neither you nor Mr. Chiplic personally. I didn't say Mrs. Snezana Malovic wanted to separate Vojvodina from Serbia. I didn't say that, but there are political forces that want it -- so, Mrs. Malovic, we both know that. The statement by Jelko Kacin that the confirmation of the Duke's statutes, but the one adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly, without legal-technical regulation, is a test of the democraticity of the Belgrade government, a clear signal that there has been an internationalisation, so-called. The Duke's question. Like Doris Pack, a German MP in the European Parliament, said yesterday that Serbia cannot enter the EU until it has taken a different approach to resolving so-called "the European Parliament". The Kosovo issue is not an accident. These are clear messages to Serbia that not only must KIM give up, but that it must get used to and prepare citizens of Serbia and, of course, citizens living in Vojvodina, to the fact that the issue of Vojvodina will soon come to the agenda. You, Mrs. Malovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29114	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29115	Dear MPs, of course, that this law, whose adoption I don't know why it's challenging at all, is overly necessary. Because when you look at that Article 183. The Constitution and when you see how many areas are numbered, but not concrete business in the structure of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, of course, it is clear to everyone that when you talk about agriculture, forestry, culture, health, we cannot expect every law that is passed in that area, each for itself, individually, to determine – e, and what is now in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina or others. It's impossible and the state couldn't function. It's on one side. On the other hand, the issue of the AP Vojvodina is the internal issue of the Republic of Serbia and its territorial arrangements, but it is very easy for individuals to forget Article 12 of this same constitution, which says that the province's autonomy is a constitutional right of citizens and that rural autonomy is a means of restricting government, not only of the AP Vojvodina, but of provincial autonomy in general. And that is why, as the prime minister said, decentralisation is one of the strategic directions in which this government is working. Finally, what's very important. All of us living in Vojvodina know that there is no one within the Vojvodina who would want to separate Vojvodina, nor that there is one in Europe whose strength would be so strong that the issue of the Vojvodina is so internationalized. We know that all of us, and 250 MPs and we government members, would react equally to any form of separatism. That is why the rest of Serbia should not be held hostage by this slightly phobic story of Vojvodina. There is no separatism in Vojvodina, there will be no separatism. There are no political forces to do that. I repeat, Vojvodina is part of Serbia, it will remain, but at the same time, that part of Serbia that is closest to Europe and which can pull the whole of Serbia into Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29116	Thank you. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29117	I would start with a question – does this government of the Republic of Serbia truly fulfil its obligations under the Constitution, which is respect for the principle of legality? Perhaps the present ministers would not be able to answer the specific questions that follow, but it is important for all those who follow this transmission to understand that the question of legality, the question of respect for the Constitution and the determination of this government in this composition are two completely different issues. Here's an interesting question with the facts from last night. Mr. Markovic, the SRS's boardman in Rakovica Mrs. Vera Vukosavljevic, in order to contact her electoral base, the voters, made one text on two sides to explain to the citizens what is going on in the Rakovica municipality. She started sharing it, went into the apartment building, and put folded paper in the mailbox. Three residents came from the building -- Zivko Stojanovic, Miroljub Stojanovic and Radojčić Miodrag, and began attacking the woman. She's not lazy, she's turning the phone, number 92. After 50 minutes, the police come. Patrol leader Samatovic Veličko tells the lady -- it is forbidden to put political pamphlets in the mailbox. She says - but you, as an official person, need me to protect, I do my job as a councilman. Shows them the ID, and they say, "No, that's forbidden." And she, the woman, stop that, come home. We're waiting for that record today. Can you explain to me what law says that it is forbidden to put propaganda material in mailboxes by political parties? What would happen, Mr. Markovic, if you went to the village where you live to report what you were doing (on paper, since you can't communicate through RTS or any other way with your voters), to be attacked, you call the police, and the police say, "Yes, citizens are right, that's forbidden"? Just to remind you, Mr. Markovic, last year, a retired colonel, a member of the SRS, was attacked as he also shared propaganda material. A young man's been beaten. Here, let me also give you an example of a citizen living alone with two children. Two telegrams were sent to the police. When he said he was attacked by four, the one at the police station said, "It's not four of them, it's two of them." [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29118	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29119	If you don't mind, I'd like to finish this. You know, and just now Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic said -- I don't want to answer any specific questions, but I need you to specifically address the authorities. Here's the sequel. Mr. Zdravkovic, who lives there somewhere in Kiev, let the address (not important), enter the apartment four and beat him up in front of underage children. Report to the police, there's no protection. Then how does someone go to report to the police when they don't trust the police, when someone from the Rakovic municipality assigned the gigs, business space, etc.? Mr. Markovic, you know that the City Assembly prescribes where kiosks can be placed, those six square meters can be placed, so it's said - on the corner and those streets can be placed four pieces. What if ten pieces are placed, and half is owned, say, by the president of the municipality, and the other half by some other characters? Every day I get letters from a large number of people in Rakovica that indicate exactly what's going on. I'm forwarding to the state authorities, the reaction is -- the police station chief's gone sick, he doesn't want to solve those problems. Who should we talk to? To whom does a citizen address to protect one of his fundamental rights, which is guaranteed, Mr. Ciplic, this very constitution that you just read? Are you going to force the citizens to take over self-help, to take justice into their own hands? It's not a solution, people, you know. We don't need October 5th. We all roasted on one occasion. We've seen that nothing good has done us any good. Why doesn't the state work and who it protects? You saw, Markicevic asked a question, and the Prime Minister wouldn't answer. We asked questions a year and a half ago about Gilas and Shaper and about them and about them. So, if it's DS, anything can. You can break the law, you can break regulations, you can turn regulations, you can interpret them one way or the other. But if it's just a man who says, "I want to live," that's a distraction for you. That's how laws don't apply, that's how laws aren't respected, that's how you do things. You are obliged to protect every citizen on the principle of equality and equality of all, not to carry out that kind of discrimination. We have discrimination stemming from the government. We have discrimination because the truth is only 126. The absolute truth is 126 and there's no room for another.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29120	Three minutes. Thank you. We move to a third round of issues on the topic -- the government's attitude towards constitutional obligations. Do any of the MPs who are not members of any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Do any of the MPs from the New Serbia parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) Do any of the MPs from the LDP parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) Do any of the MPs from the Group of MPs want to speak to Serbia? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29121	I would continue with the question that I have already asked, which is whether the government will apply its constitutional obligation and bring into harmony with the bodies and bodies that exercise public authority, primarily with the Civil Aviation Directorate, which does no defined surveillance work. Since Mr Markovic has advised us to address the Government by written means, I will say that the parliamentary issues are, to the greatest extent, one more of the evidence that the control of the Government Assembly exists only formally and that the Rules of Procedure have prescribed the day and the possibility of asking parliamentary questions, but that the answers do not generally arrive. So far, I have received only one answer, and on this subject you have received a direct presentation of interested pilots, air associations, damaged persons, even an information trustee involved, because this alleged international contract, which has been whispered to you as a possible basis for carrying out these tasks, has absolutely not been published anywhere in this assembly or has been ratified before, so that this cannot be the basis for that international act to cancel the Constitution or any of the laws that this country has passed. In July, during the story of the loan, I pointed out the illegal collection of the income of this authority, which on behalf of the state is income and does not pay VAT, so I don't know what is the way to bring what is called an unconstitutional state into the state of constitutionality and benefit for the citizens. I'm afraid this government's conduct is largely disenfranchised by Parliamentism itself. Yesterday I made a joke with my fellow Members of the Assembly. Seeing the red carpet, I asked - who's our guest today? They told me who it was, and I said it was very possible that this house would soon turn into a guest room, into something to show, as a tourist attraction, but that the less and less is the Assembly with its constitutional powers and control function it normally has.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29122	Does anyone from the SRS parliamentary group want to ask another question? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29123	Again, I must take a brief look at what Mr. Chiplic said. Mr. Chiplic, that first variant is actually constitutional, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through a series of laws governing certain areas listed in Article 183. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives the right to the AP to, as it moves within the frameworks defined by the law, settles certain issues of the province's importance. You seem to have gone the other way, the same way that the government of Zoran Djindjic started in 2002, when you passed a law called the Law establishing certain powers of the AP Vojvodina. That law was a concession, first of all, to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Then you transferred a whole series of competencies from various areas of social life to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, which was the opposite of the then applicable 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now you intend to do it another time. The Constitution didn't want that. The Constitution wanted, above all, the National Assembly to settle its laws issues which are of importance for social life in Serbia, so that, within these laws, it would trust the AP Vojvodina to settle individual issues of the province importance, not to transfer the AP Vojvodina to one legal list of competences from various areas of social life. That's not what the Constitution wanted. If the Constitution wanted it, that's how it would have been written in the Constitution, but that's not what it says. My question is - what will the Serbian Government do about the fact that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, above all the Executive Council and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, have already begun to apply the proposal of the Vojvodina Statute, although the adoption and adoption procedure has not been completed? For example, the Metals Bank in Novi Sad has recently been transformed into the Vojvodina Development Bank. The Vojvodina Development Bank is mentioned in the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina. But it is still just a proposal, it has not received consent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and has not been declared in the Vojvodina Assembly. It is therefore an act which is still at the stage of the proposal and does not produce any legal fact. However, the AP Vojvodina's authorities seem to be waiting for the other part of the DS to be merciful and to put the proposal into assembly procedure, but in fact began to apply it. It's something that, I mean, no legal state can imagine -- that something that hasn't yet come into force, something that still doesn't have the character of the general legal act, but has the character of the proposal. Will you government gentlemen stick your head in the sand and say nothing happens in Vojvodina and no one in the world wants...?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29124	Three minutes. Do any of the members of the government want to respond? No, I don't. ) Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want to ask questions? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29125	I would like to, Mrs. Comic, if you'll allow me to finish that one single sentence, and it is obvious that the ministers do not want to answer the questions of the MPs. Gentlemen of the government, you can't pretend that nothing is happening in Vojvodina and that no one in the world wants to internationalize the Vojvodina issue. He wants to, and you know it very well. One of the main writers of the draft statutes, namely the draft statutes of AP Vojvodina, is Tibor Varadi, former professor of Law School in Novi Sad, a man who now lives in Budapest and who is a declared co-worker of the CIA. You know very well, but pretend you don't. And the commission formed at the Vojvodina Assembly, which did not take part in the participation of the representatives of the SRS, did not write anything. She received the finished text, which was then put into the procedure of the Vojvodina Assembly and voted. And how there are people, individuals, but also groups, even countries that would like Vojvodina to have a much different status than it does now, and you know it very well. Jelko Kacin does not speak like Jelko Kacin, he speaks on behalf of the EU. Just as Doris Pack doesn't speak for himself, he speaks for the Federal Republic of Germany. And these are clear messages to Serbia that there is nothing since joining the EU until Serbia takes a different stance on KIM and Vojvodina. If you have accepted, gentlemen, to be ministers, then you must show a dose of political courage. It's easy being a minister and pretending nothing's happening around me. It happens. Nothing happens in Vojvodina by accident, as nothing happened in either KIM, Croatia, Slovenia, BiH or Montenegro. Everything happens with some plan and some ultimate purpose. We from the SRS and all Serbian citizens ask you the same question – what will you do to preserve the territorial integrity of the Serbian state, which is threatened? Because nowhere in the Serbian Constitution does it say that Vojvodina has its diplomatic representations abroad, that it has its own government, that it makes decisions with legal force. It doesn't say anything. You can't pretend everything's okay, it's not all right, and you can tell the citizens of Vojvodina – here, it scares you of the SRS, but there's nothing to be afraid of, everything's fine. It's not. This started in Slovenia in 1969 with the so-called The road crisis, then began in Croatia in 1971 with "Croatian Spring", and began with the tables at Pristina University and here it is as far as it came. There's some sort of event trail. No one says there will be conflicts in Vojvodina tomorrow or in six months, but potentially that can happen, because apparently someone is pushing Serbs at Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29126	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29127	I really don't know how you imagine it and who you see in Vojvodina as someone who would separate Vojvodina from Serbia. Serbs? It's "contradictio and idecto". That's impossible. Are any of the national minorities who are suspicious? I don't know who. Do you think that, when Serbia enters the EU soon, the issue of the secession of Vojvodina is possible, and you have time-scheduled this potential threat to Serbia's territorial security and integrity, and the end of borders in the EU, whose part of Serbia will soon be? Understanding both political attitudes and everything else, I really can't get past the threshold of rationality. There is no such thing in Vojvodina that would separate Vojvodina from Serbia. There isn't. There's no one who would do that. At the end of the line... (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. I am, of course, on the side of us, MPs, questioning and controlling ministers, but within the limits of courtesy. So, let's hear it from the minister. Thank you. ) At the end of the line, I think it is important what we agree on, which is that there is no man in this House who would not react in the same way if it were a secession of any part of Serbia. In the end, what is very important is the question of the law on determining jurisdiction. You know, if we were to manage the logic that every system law that has been passed or is being passed or will be changed itself determines the jurisdiction of the republican and the provinceal authorities, then, guided by that logic, we would have to pass for each ministry a special law. Simply, the logic of legal efficiency, legal certainty, legal certainty, the legal order of constitutional law requires this. The constitution was not explicit, but it left it to you and us to determine the methodology that was most effective. There's no doubt that this is the most efficient methodology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29128	Do any of the MPs from the ZES parliamentary group want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Kotriæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29129	Since it is also the constitutional obligation of the Serbian government to ensure the equality of citizens before the law, my question concerns the application of the law adopted by this house on 24 December 2004. Now it will be five years since it was passed, and unfortunately the law does not apply. It is the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, which we call the Law on Equalising the Rights of Members of the Montenegrin and Partisan Movement, which, I recall, was then adopted on the proposal of the SPO parliamentary group. The proposal was also supported by MPs from DS, G17, New Serbia, the SRS, the DSS, and 176 MPs in total, so more than two-thirds of MPs supported its adoption. However, it appeared, immediately after its adoption, that the law is not being applied, so on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, led by Mr Slobodan Lalovic, who was at the time a member of the Social Democratic Party, I think now in the DSS, a regulation on the exercise of the rights of members of the Yugoslav army in the country and the Montenegrin movement in the area of martial law. The regulation aimed to enable the law to be applied, i.e., the most importantly, the recognition of the status of Yugoslav troops in the country and the exercise of certain rights arising from that status. Here, as I said, it turned out to be five years old, and the law and regulation are completely inapplicable. About three thousand requests have been filed, and none of them have been positively resolved. The regulation provides, in addition, that anyone who submits an application should prove it to the documents, and if not able, then has a statement of a qualified witness, and a qualified witness is only one who has already exercised that right. That means someone who was practically with the applicant in the same unit at the same time, on the same ground, and had already made the request, which means only a member of the Partisan movement. It is practically unreal because, under this law and this regulation, even if General Mihailovic were alive, he himself could not prove that he was a member of the Montenegrin movement, so many solutions are absurd. The question is – will the government bring forward a new regulation that will finally enable members of the Yugoslav army in the country and the Equality Movement to exercise a legal right which, unfortunately, remains a dead letter on paper so far?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29130	Thank you. Does anyone want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) Does anyone want to ask a third question? Someone from the DSS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) Anyone from the New Serbia parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) Does anyone from the LDP parliamentary group want one? No, I don't. ) Does anyone from the SRS want to ask a question? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, and that's the last, third question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29131	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this session has a strange flow. Ministers, according to the Rules of Procedure, have an obligation to answer parliamentary questions and it is not a matter of their goodwill whether they will answer the question of the MP or not. But when this session has already taken some flow that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, here I am going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29132	Please don't deceive the public. This session runs according to the Rules of Procedure. Please be very careful in making statements and that we all remember together the responsibility for the public word. The session runs strictly under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please be careful what we say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29133	Mrs. Comic, this session, according to the Rules of Procedure, should run in such a way that the MP asks a question without the minister answering if he knows. If he doesn't know, to tell the MP - you will get an answer within a certain time limit, we will answer you in writing, when I consult with my associates, etc. But if the minister kept quiet about the question the MP referred to him, that's inadmissible. But since the ministers are silent, I will answer Mr. Chiplic's question. He asks - who in Vojvodina wants Vojvodina to secede from Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29134	People's MP, you've been given the word to ask a question, not to give an answer. It's a strict application of the Rules of Procedure. I warn you, we take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29135	Mrs. Comic, thanks for the heads-up. Here, I'll ask Mr. Chiplic - which party, Mr. Chipletic, printed the passport of the Republic of Vojvodina? Is it true that this passport was printed by your coalition partner, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, whose President Nenad Canak, the same man who printed the wall calendars of the Vojvodina Republic at the beginning of this year with the map on which Shabac is an integral part of the AP Vojvodina? The emissary has a passport in his hand. ) I ask you – does what's called 'the Republic of Vojvodina' have anything to do with the current regime in Serbia and with one of your coalition partners? Does this happen by any chance? Do some children play some future divisions in Serbia? And where, in which EU country, where do you seek to do so, can it happen that a party that supports the press government like this? If you're telling me that this is a phenomenon that is characteristic of the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, for any country in the EU, I'm willing to say that we in the SRS are wrong. But this isn't going anywhere. This is a scandal in itself. Instead of admitting openly, honestly, humanly, that there are people who advocate the Republic of Vojvodina, that there are people in both the country and abroad who would like Serbia to be reduced to Belgrade's pasture, you say -- no, Serbian radicals are inventing. Do you know, Mr. Chipplic, that already according to Vojvodina, there are some muddy and suspicious types who ask Serbs in certain parts of Backa how much they cost their houses and offer money to buy Serbian houses? It's happening again and again and again and again, unfortunately, it's happening today at KIM. And that's the living truth. I'm not saying anything that isn't true. And the SRS is not saying anything to scare anyone, but to draw attention to responsible and competent state authorities in time to finally start doing their job and to protect the state of Serbia. Because the state of Serbia is not...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29136	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want to ask questions? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this silence of the Serbian government ministers best speaks about what the real government policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29138	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29139	Of course, honourable MPs, that no one here is silent, but we have realized that it takes more than three minutes for honourable MPs to present the whole idea. Actually, I realize that the first part of the question is three minutes and I'm waiting for this second part of the question. In my first presentation, I said that, of course, there are historical experiences that the Republic of Serbia has survived, especially in 1974. However, the state, historical, and all the other circumstances have changed so much that calling and remembering that time is actually a phobia today. Because, and I'll end up with that, if you suspect that people living in Vojvodina are subject to manipulation, bribery, because I belong to the majority people, then it's an insult to me. Are we people of different order, wicked, what are we? When I say that there is no one in Vojvodina who wants to secede from Serbia, that's true. But it is also true that Serbs in Vojvodina, the citizens of Vojvodina, members of national minorities in Vojvodina are not separatists and are equally concerned about the Republic of Serbia and any other citizen of Serbia. Disturbing actions and cloudy characters and fighting of Serbs, it is the fear of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29140	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29141	That rationalization process of yours, if it were at least a little more efficient, I'd be too pleased. Mr. Chiplet, every experience is historic. And we have some experience with the Democratic Party and this government, and based on experience is appreciated and intelligence, so we try to be a little intelligent. And to remind you of whom the serpent burns, he is also afraid of the lizard. The question for the government – did you plan not to rebalance the 2009 budget by the end of this year, did you plan not to adopt the budget for next year by the end of the year, and did you plan for temporary financing to take place in the coming months, while dirty jobs, including one of the dirtiest, regarding Vojvodina? The dirtiest of the Duke's. Mr. Chiplicu, what do you think he held in Mr. Alexander Martinovic's hands? What was in his hands, you think Alexander Martinovic did? Do you remember New Year's Eve, tickets and calendars? The author is Alexander Martinovic? Is that what you're saying? It was a very simple question – who is the author, who has printed, who has made it? Call in some experience. The questions are answered, if nothing else, with a "yes" or a "no", and not to turn things around and supposedly scare someone. Who's scaring who here? There are very specific facts here. You will completely block the state. This has already been seen. That was in 2003. It's that legality when the Democratic Party is in power. You use the media for abuses and then you finish your job on a warrant from abroad, and everyone knows it. Everybody knows that. Answer Mr Martinovic about the passports and the card, and answer me, please – what did you plan to do by the end of the year for these budgets?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29142	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29143	I'll try to answer the budget question. I know that all the ministries of the Ministry of Finance have been asked to organise their budget projections for the areas for which they are competent and responsible and I know that we as the Ministry of Justice delivered it. According to government talks, it was never important that the budget would not be adopted and that temporary financing would be made. I must quite honestly tell you that this is a story that has been mentioned since last year, when it has also been speculated that no budget will be adopted and that there will be temporary funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29144	Does MP Zoran Krasic want to ask questions? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29145	Mrs. Malovic, you have taken great responsibility to inform the public that the 2010 budget will be prepared and done as prescribed by the existing laws. You took the responsibility to guarantee that you will go to budget rebalance by the end of the year to cover more spending than the one approved by the 2009 budget. I just wanted you to give firm guarantees that this job will be done in accordance with the law. Let me remind you, last year everything was late. Everything that had to be done in November ended only in late December. Be careful when you make promises. I purposely asked this question, so I could have reason and reason to call you government by the end of the year. But I expect an answer to the question – what deran did that passport make? Isn't that the deran in the government? Is this deran perhaps an integral part of your coalition? If it wasn't for that deran, maybe it was your conscience, so he's saying what you can't say? Or maybe he's not at all demented, maybe he's the boss. He's not skinned, you know, yet. Is there gonna be a new calendar waiting for us this year with a new ticket? Maybe the Sabbath isn't where it's supposed to be anymore. You're not talking about it. You act like it doesn't exist. Oh, there is! Someone's working. You have so many agencies. Now you've brought together classified information, and now you're going to do it. You have this powerful Miket Rakic, you have the VOA, the BOA, all possible agencies. Let us know who's doing it, who's doing it. And no-- let him make a fuss, end up in a dirty way the work that you have to do. And last year you were talking -- what a Eulex, so at the end of the year you admitted to inviting him. Just to remind you, Mrs Malovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia was the adviser to Finance Minister Djelic in 2001. They made an agreement with independent Kosovo. You can't be trusted when you say any word. I have a billion proofs to show you where you can deny yourself. You're talking to one another, you're working the other. Yours is a devisa – I watch the cabbage exercise meat. Who can trust you? Everyone who trusted you got hurt. All who believed you were poor. We have 95% of the losers in transition. These are the losers of the DS democratic process.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29146	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, so Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29147	The position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina will be pictured in the proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction. As we have stated today, both the Prime Minister and ourselves, this law will soon be on the agenda of parliament, and we will be able to discuss this closer, and these issues that you are talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29148	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29149	You and I are different from seeing passports, and I see the propaganda material of a political party. There is a difference whether it is my personal belief that there is no one, that there is no such power (when I say strength - not an individual, but a relevant political force) that is fighting and that can be fought for the change and territorial arrangement of the Republic of Serbia and the status of the AP Vojvodina and those who are actually fighting one fact, which is conservativeism, fear of a new one. In this case, all of us, to this and the Constitution obliges us, decentralised Serbia in this way to be far more efficient, and in this process of decentralisation, for which no one intends to go beyond the framework of the Constitution. Of course there are fears and there is a promotion of fears that, because of the untrustworthy Serbs from Backa or Vojvodina, it will end up in the Separatism of Vojvodina. He won't. At the very end of the line, when a law on determining jurisdiction is discussed here, which is, of course, necessary and which constitutionally authorised, and when debated on the statutes, then it will be very simply found that this government wants to do only what is its legal obligation, that this parliament will do what is its constitutional jurisdiction and that no separatism, I repeat, does not exist in Vojvodina, nor will it be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29150	Do any of the ministers want to speak, since there's only one minute and 30 seconds left, on this matter? No, I don't. ) In that case, since we have exhausted, based on the Rules of Procedure, asking parliamentary questions, I would like to inform you that a total of 20 parliamentary questions and 20 questions have been asked to Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic and the ministers present. I thank the participation of the present ministers and the absent Prime Minister, and especially the MPs who have used their right to ask questions about the current topic, which, as a proposal, has been submitted by the DSS parliamentary group - the government's attitude towards constitutional obligations. We are finishing work in Dan to answer parliamentary questions about the current topic. I thank you all for your participation, and I would like to inform the MPs that today's work continues at 1600 hours, under the business obligation of Article 200. Given that today is the last Thursday of the month, from 1600 to 19.00 MPs will be able to use the right to ask parliamentary questions to the Prime Minister and to present ministers. So, at 4:00, we'll continue our work. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 13.50 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29151	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH OTHER SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 29th October 2009 (Embassy issues – last Thursday of the month) (The session began at 16.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29152	Dear Members of Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 200(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government, out of their jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 199(1). Rules of Procedure; the parliamentary question must be clearly formulated (Article 199(2)). Rules of Procedure; the presentation of the MP who asks questions cannot last longer than three minutes (Article 199(4)). Rules of Procedure); the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority (Article 199(6)). Rules of Procedure. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. Where a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and shall forward the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, in accordance with Article 201. Rules of Procedure. Also, according to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as regulated by Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. Before we move on to asking questions, let me give you a heads-up. The following members of the government have informed that due to previously established commitments, they are prevented from attending today's work: Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development; Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister; Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the NIP; Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, Defence and Sports Minister. We're moving on to sending questions. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, here are a few questions. I've already set one up a while ago, but the answer, like most others, I haven't gotten, which is why this institution is a little bit of a waste of meaning, or you ask one and you get another answer, so the whole idea is thought out and served as cosmetics. But whatever. The issue concerns the expropriation and migration of citizens living in the village of Vreoci, the municipality of Lazarec, the town of Belgrade, and the fate of thousands of households. Warms remind of a village of Podokin, not a village close to Belgrade. I remind you that the Warblers have their own tradition and that in 1875 it was the first time coal was discovered there and that when you displaced thousands of people, it was a delicate job. There are also platforms and programs brought here, but I will ask concrete questions – when will the expropriation begin; will all thousands of households be expunged at the same time; will it be partial expropriation (which the people of the cod do not want, because they do not want to live in the area as on the moon, next to the coal dumps, besides those of the mills and caves that are formed by coal) or total expropriation; what is the dynamics of the works, when they will start, when they will be finished; what is the dynamics of paying the exploited property; will even when a fee is paid; when will it all be paid? People don't want to live in suspense. It's been promised until September 1st, and there's still nothing of it. The second question is traditional, though there is no Minister Dinkic – when will a thousand euros be paid for free action? Or should I simplify, since the Board of Directors of NIS has given consent to the payment of free shares on behalf of the NIS sale, how much money is it for every man who has shares and when will these tens of euro crumbs be paid? The third question concerns the status of employees of the "July 7th" Fashion Confection in Kursumlia, those who have not been paid social aid provided for by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? They were on the labour market, then deceived that the employer would take them back to work indefinitely, and then it was declared to be a strike, so they weren't admitted to work, and they don't have any social assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29154	Who wants government members to answer questions? Nobody. ) You will obviously receive a written reply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Batic. You have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29155	Exactly what I said in the introduction confirms what I pointed out at the time, that the whole idea was unthinkable. So let's ask oral questions and then we get some kind of unfavourable written answer in two, three, five months, in which there's no answer at all to the specific question. This is today a new confirmation that the government is ignoring parliament. This remark does not apply to ministers present, but yesterday it happened that a parliament session was interrupted because there were no representatives of the government, today there are no those who are willing to answer these questions and then the whole idea of asking questions is unthinkable. It seems to me that at least one of you could have answered, because it's a general place, and it's a fee for free action. The thing is very simple, very simple. It was a pre-election promise. Many citizens believed this pre-election promise, and it turns out: a promise - a crazy joy. I've been asking this question several times on purpose. Since Dinkic is never there, it would be the turn to answer another of the government's representatives here, let's say the finance minister, because the answer to this question does not require any special knowledge. Will 1,000 euros ever be paid on behalf of free shares, and what should everything in Serbia be sold to get to 1,000 euros? Or, this second, simpler part – what will happen to the payment of free shares, that is, their cash equivalent in the name of the sale of NIS? When is it going to be and how many citizens are going to get money on that basis -- 10, 15, 20 or something more euros? Let's get that farce on the road.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29156	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I had a question for Minister Dinkic, but he is unfortunately not present this time either. It concerns my written question, which I referred to on March 6th. I did not get a response to a similar session by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and about the famous auction of the company "Brothership" in Presevo, in which auction conditions were discriminatory. All economic operators from Presevo and Bujanovac who absolutely could not meet the condition that they had a four-star hotel. I think it's radically set, because it was a trade activity, and conditioning was, as you can see, an activity from tourism. It would be my turn to get that answer, at least in writing. Unfortunately, I haven't gotten it yet. The second question I referred to in July is Minister Mrkonjic, which concerns the Presevo-Bujanovac highway, which was officially released in July, on July 14th or 4th, and is not yet completed. Overpasses are still missing. Whole villages are blocked. People have been blocked in their agricultural affairs, and there are enormous difficulties and in the very traffic on that stock, which is why there are, unfortunately, human casualties as well. The question is, when will this share finally be over? Just so we know when the finalisation of such an important project as the highway is planned. As Minister Obradovic is present, the third issue concerns one analysis by the ministry in co-operation with the OSCE, as an analysis of feasibility regarding higher education and the possibility of opening higher education institutions in the Presevo Valley. Given that the effects of the possible opening of these institutions in the next academic year could result only after four years, I ask the question – what will we do in the ministry and in the government to solve the existing problem, a serious problem of non-recognition of the Pristina University diploma and the University of Macedonia and Albania?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29159	Dear Mr. Halimi, dear fellow MPs, may say, as minister of education, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the government, trying to solve the problem of giving the children the opportunity from the municipality of Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo, has decided to open two departments of two higher education institutions in Medvedja. It's about an out-of-the-way department of Law School and an out-of-state department of the Faculty of Economics at the University of Nis. We realized that project a few weeks ago, to the satisfaction of all those present. When I say all those present, I mean representatives of the Bear Community, but also other municipalities. There were OSCE representatives and other representatives of the international community, i.e. ambassadors accredited in Serbia. This year we created an opportunity for 30 students to be on the budget at one college, 30 on the other, plus self-financed. According to data from four weeks ago, 59 students enrolled these two departments, where, if memory serves me well, 50 are representatives of the Serb ethnic community, and nine are Albanians. Our idea next year is to open two departments in Bujanovac, for the space of Bujanovac and Presevo, of course for the others who want it. In any case, we want to create the possibility that they can also be educated in these municipalities. It is something that is part of the government strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, related to higher education. As for the answer to part two of Mr. Halimi's question, it's not just up to us. You know that this government and the Ministry of Education have a good will to meet any problem, to get rid of it, but we have also met representatives of the OSCE with the fact that individual documents from the KIM space do not have the mark of the Republic of Serbia and we have asked them to press for these documents to have the unmik mark and, of course, the name of Kosovo and Metohija, given that it is part of the UN civilian presence in KIM space based on Resolution 1244. While it is, and it is, until the UN makes a different decision, all documents should be contained in their content and such a label. I would not like this problem to be put before us as a problem of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, because it is a problem whose resolution depends on the other side, in this case and the representatives of the OSCE, which we have asked for help, but also on the people in the KIM space who issue the relevant documents. I think that makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29160	Thank you. Mr. Riza Halimi. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29161	I thank you for this explanation, given by Mr. Secretary, I'd just like to add something. We had a period of 11 years, from 1991 to 2002, while the previous problem of recognising a diploma from Pristina University was solved, which was then resolved through Unmik's forms. It would be my turn not to wait 11 years again, because young people who have been finishing Pristina University for two years can't work. It's time now, with the experience we have from the previous period, to solve this problem more effectively and more quickly. However, beyond these political misunderstandings, life problems and demands of citizens, which should be taken more seriously, so that most young people, due to lack of perspective and opportunity to work, go away and absolutely empty that space. However, I have also potentiated the nostrification of the diploma. According to my knowledge, the Ministry of Education in Macedonia directly solves these problems for the citizens of its country, not putting it down, like us, to the level of university or university. We have a very diverse current situation here and a irrational one. That nostration is left to the sole competence of the university and university. Other countries are solving this more effectively, as the ministry assumes that jurisdiction. The situation is so complex and sensitive, I think it is also the turn here to finally consider the possibility that the ministry, at least for starters, solves the problem of nostration of the Albanian and Macedonian universities, which is also a sensitive problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29162	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29163	(I use my colleague Milan Markovic's card and his name is on the screen). I'd like to support my colleague, Halimi, in order to solve these problems, but I really don't want these problems to be solved with political content. If you mentioned, rightly, that the problem has been solved in one way over the past 12 years, then the question is why someone else has changed this way of solving the problem and it is now being asked as a question to which Serbia, or the Ministry of Education, should answer. Why is the method that has functioned for 12 years still not applied? If applied, we wouldn't have a problem. Since it's not applied, we have a problem and I've explained what we want to do to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29164	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29165	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I wanted to ask a question that interests me – 40 municipalities in Serbia, which are the most underdeveloped, are in a very difficult situation. Days come, both here in parliament and in government, and no one will take them to meetings, which have been scheduled multiple times and cancelled. They can't survive until the new year. In these municipalities, which have joined together, 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, children need to go to kindergarten, to warm up, to lead a normal life, which is being led in all other cities. What about these municipalities? What have you decided, will they get the transfer funds they need to survive? I repeat, it is the poorest municipalities, which cover an extremely large part of Serbia's territory. They've been going around for days. They're coming. No one has received them yet, no one has made a promise, and they don't know what they're doing and what they're gonna do by the end of the year. I'd like to ask the finance minister to answer this question and really define what will happen to these municipalities. Given that in one part of the municipality there are also presidents from New Serbia, is it purely political for these municipalities to be completely ignored? You see, when they came to the meeting, 40 of them, the order came for all the presidents of the Democratic Party to leave the room, they turned around and went home. Now we're interested in whether these others are supposed to fight for something that's coming to them, and without what they can't wait for a new year, or not? One question for Mr. Dacic's police minister. These days, in the private newspaper of one of our politicians, some information is being leaked -- off the record from the MUP, our source finds out, etc. Is it some kind of secret organization that you need someone so unofficially to give information or to "cure"? If something, Mr. Minister, is wrong, there's a way and a way to check it. But it really bothers me, as a man, when every minute, a little bit, if I hook up Gilas or someone in a conversation, the next day, "Pres" covers me with some stories. I ask a concrete question – what about those unfortunate Swedish cars? What kind of minister do I have to do with some cars? What about that director... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29166	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29167	Dear Mr. Ilic, I have the impression you're not well informed. If you really think that no one from the Treasury has received representatives of the most underdeveloped municipalities, I want to tell you that's not true. Representatives, mostly municipal presidents, had a meeting yesterday at the finance ministry, without any policy. Only numbers and underdeveloped municipalities were seen. What I can promise is that all municipalities, without distinction, that belong to the category of underdeveloped, will receive help or support. I couldn't say that some of their legal rights were denied, but all levels of the state, both central and local, must bear the burden of the crisis. So, all undeveloped municipalities will get some support before the rebalancing and probably something after the budget rebalance. The meeting was, all municipalities that belong to a group of underdeveloped, 40 of them, will receive support from the budget on the same principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29168	Mr. Ilic has a comment or a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29169	Madam Minister, there are 40 of them. There are 13 left in the O.R., the rest of them got a warrant to come back and come back. They were received by some fifth secretary there, and there was an appointment with you and Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Look out, they were invited to meet with Prime Minister Cvetkovic. People came, someone said -- you have to go home, and a group went home. They remained 13 and instead of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who promised to come, received them from a sub-secretary there and told them to come another day. I'm glad you're taking care of them, and I'm glad you're going to identify the funds, because it's necessary for these municipalities to survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29170	The word is Mrs Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29171	There was a meeting yesterday. I couldn't be at the meeting, but for me, I definitely know, there were two state secretaries – Mr. Vuk Djokovic and Mr. Miodrag Djidic. Did someone leave, didn't leave, etc., I don't know. I know that with two State Secretarys they had a meeting and I know for a fact that all undeveloped municipalities will receive certain support, which will not be great, but will receive it by the same principle, regardless of who the president of the municipality is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29172	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29173	What is certain is that the Ministry of Interior and the police do not work through the media, in terms of information that has an off-the-book character. On the contrary, I think the publication of such information is very often damaging to both the investigation and what may come at the end of police activities. So our ministry has nothing to do with any article in any media on any subject of police processing or any procedure. What we have to announce, we make public, through our statements or through what I'm saying as a minister, as the Director of the Police says, etc. Whether someone is being investigated or not, it's not the subject of public answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29174	The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29175	I understand, Mr. Minister, but in time, as a minister who has not been informed of this procurement at all, I asked the MUP to give me official paper on what it is. They told me everything was fine and that the Ministry of Finance had run the whole business. I'm just asking you always to go public correctly, not like this. Because there's a statement made by the mayor of Belgrade, Mr. Dragan Gilas, and she has some weight in the public and journalists are following her and commenting on her. I'd like to ask you one more time. It was very difficult for me, Mr. Minister, when, after my injury to which no one from the MUP came, although they did not perform any research, they did not take any evidence. The police were in my room as soon as I came to, and we talked, and they said they'd follow, that the kids were waiting to take them to the place where it happened. To this day, no one has ever answered again, has come, has not conducted an investigation and, moreover, nothing has been done about it. Why? The health minister was sitting next to my room and he dictated to Bajeca the record that I had experienced stress, which later showed that the surgery was not stress, but blunt force injury and a gunshot to the vein that was cremated by surgery in the back of the small brain. Does it make sense that no one comes out on the spot, that I don't have any record to date, that I don't have any mechanism to start what actually happened? I don't remember anything because I was deeply unconscious when the ambulance drove me away. And now I have great consequences and I'm thinking how could the Minister of Health, whom I looked through the glass while I was lying in my room, was there when the admission list was typed, etc., and they led me under stress. I've never had any stress in my life, and I haven't had high pressure, which is what the later interrogations showed. I'm really very sorry, and I find that extremely irresponsible. Two inspectors were at my place and they didn't do anything until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29176	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29177	I'll just do one sentence. As for the first subject you set, I really wouldn't comment on what the police report was sent to the D.A.'s office. It happened at the time of the previous government and the previous interior minister, and when it comes to the second question, you remember that I personally called you on the phone, wanting to hear from you personally what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29178	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29179	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, is a question for Mrs Dragutinovic. Without any intention or desire to point at the problems facing not only your ministry or government in which you are the minister, but the whole country, I think you owe us an answer to this inevitable question in any serious debate aimed at finding, looking for a solution to the problem in which the country is. Why are we the only society that doesn't have a clear strategy and a vision of getting out of the crisis that is shaking us? A year ago, we started talking about it, and then we offered not a document that was adequate to respond to all the problems we saw, but primarily to support the definition of a strategy that would help our society and the people we care about. You ignored it. For a year here, we've been partially solving our problems by putting out a fire after a fire. A year ago, in November, we discussed a budget rebalancing that was inflatable. We then paid the price of the ruling coalition that was formed. If this was necessary and if it was a sacrifice of quality for some future quality that will produce that coalition, then a year later we have to ask you a question of absence of results. We are a society that is exposed to the ad hoc measures of your government. We didn't discuss yesterday, we'll discuss Monday a law that reduces the country's obligations, i.e. costs and public spending, through the collection of the number of employees in the state administration and local self-government, etc. At the same time, we're facing your statement that you don't know how to spend 130 billion. If you don't know how 130 billion are spent, and I don't think you should know, because it doesn't have to be the state that answers the question of the costs of public enterprises, local self-government, etc., it needs to encourage those processes that will lead to the privatisation of public enterprises and the real self-government and autonomy of our municipalities, the regions we allegedly create and the provinces. Answer the simple question of how to spend the money you're responsible for, based on the decisions your government makes. Today we listened here in the afternoon conversation with the prime minister that warm conversation between Mr. Mirk and Mr. Pere, an inappropriate assembly debate and a question our MP asked. You're the finance minister, I'm not asking you about 130 billion that are spent by public companies from their own incomes, local self-government, all the users of international aid. Tell us what was the basis for a decision that obliges one of the biggest public enterprises, with the biggest losses, which is "Serbiagas", to buy "Informatics" for 2,700,000 euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29180	Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29181	There's been a lot of questions here, not just one thing, but let's take it in a row. I don't know, sir, what it means for you to have no vision, but it's fully known what the role of the state is. The state has three roles. The first part is that the more it affects poverty reduction. The second role is to support the infrastructure. The third role is to support small and medium-sized enterprises if possible. There's no great wisdom here. What is the role of the state, and what do you expect from the state? The role of the state is, for example, when the recession is to compensate for the lack of private demand, because production falls, by expansion of public consumption. It's the role of the state. It's not true there's not a single country that didn't bring in, as you say, an inflationary budget. How is it possible to bring an inflationary budget at the time of the recession? For the recession, it's characteristic that the demand is falling dramatically, and that's what happened to us, and the best evidence for that is a huge adjustment of the balance of payments. Therefore, under conditions where private demand falls, the state reacts to growth in public spending. It's a very clear strategy and I don't know which country didn't do it. What did we actually do? If you want to be honest, we're the state that had the deficit, which planned the deficit. We are the state that will plan the deficit in 2010. Why? Because the economy is still relatively weak that it can do without the support of the state. That's clear and it is a strategy. About whether the budget deficit itself is inflatable or deflatorated, I'll tell you that the deficit itself is not inflatable, it's just an important way that the deficit is financed. Only when you finance that deficit with money, which is not the case with us, then that deficit affects inflation. I didn't say I didn't know how to spend 130 billion. I said that money is being spent outside the budget process, which is definitely true. Why? Because there are a number of regulations that regulate the own and dedicated revenues of direct and indirect budget users and beneficiaries of social security funds. Health institutions have the right to their own incomes, and it is really being spent outside of the budget process, and I said that at the convention where we were dealing with the methodology of how to fix the budget process. And that's what I said to show that the new budget system law actually wanted to fix the budget process, because it's the obligation of all users, both direct and indirect, to show their own revenues, so I'll know in the future how, not me, it's more of you to know how that money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29182	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29183	I would agree with you, with your actions being completely different from what you're saying. But let's start from the beginning. First of all, your definition of the role of the state is all yours and it has nothing to do with us. Since you're fighting poverty, I'm going to suggest that you be specific and clear about it, so tell us what led you to give consent, as finance minister, i.e. to oblige "Srbigas" to buy for nearly three million euros the private company that in the meantime becomes the property of a mixed company formed by our state and Russian state, in which the Russian state has a majority. Just answer that question specifically. As far as you're concerned, I was very clear. I said in November of last year, you were here in parliament defending yourself indefensibly. Because of the payment of your coalition, the euro went from 75 dinars to 95. Because of the unsustainable attitude that the state is buying political support by offering charity to society, the number of poor has increased by these years, it has not decreased. I agree that the state should help entrepreneurship, but not by starting to deal with business, but by withdrawing. You suggested firing state officials, and you didn't tell us which jobs this country wants to deal with. We have no problem with the number of employees, but with the results of their work. You've raised your pensions to 70% of your salary. It is not possible to build egalitarianism between pensioners and workers, but first we have to ask the question of what to do with 40% of pensioners who exercise a full pension right without having full employment. That's where the order should be introduced. One hundred and twenty thousand pensioners receive miserable pensions. Let's say what is the minimum that the state will guarantee that they can live on, not hide behind demagogy. Here in parliament in January you denied the recession, when the Eurozone recorded the first quarter in the recession. You were talking about the growth of a 3% ji-di-pi (GDP) and now it's minus four. You said he was based on the growth of our agrarian. That was nonsense, Mrs. Dragutinovic. You were waiting for the IMF with a proposal to raise the VAT. It's a vision of your policy. Is that necessary or not? Maybe it is, and maybe you'll even get our support for something like that, if you can't. But where's the strategy, where's the clear plan? The biggest companies in the country are the biggest losers. We've privatized NIS, and we don't have two board members. Are we not so interested in the business of the most profitable company, i.e. companies with the biggest profit in the country, with Telekom? That's not our data, that's the data of independent statistics. The three largest companies in Serbia are NIS, Serbiagas and Telekom for profits made or traffic. Say how 2,700,000 euros were spent and what is the reason to do something like that. We understand why you're taking over a failed company. Because that's how you buy political support. What did you pay 2,700,000 euros for tomorrow to become the property of a mixed company owned by the Russian state? It is the government's decision, which has pledged "Srbigas", which at the moment accounts for 170m euros in losses. The 170 million is almost three million new losses. Let's talk about it. I agree with your idea that spending should be raised in situations where it falls on the other side, but the activities they have marked over the past year are not activities that have been directed at the economy, as Minister Mrkonjic cannot be the manager of any enterprise in Serbia and the state cannot deal with business, or Minister Dinkic. You've defined measures you haven't implemented. Excise collection - less revenue than expected, taxi charges on mobile phones - less income than expected, transfer to local self-government - greater than projected. These aren't the reductions that were foreseen by your measurements. What other measures did you have? Dislocation of funds, own revenues going into the republican budget -- neither have those funds been withdrawn. Frozen wages, on the other hand, income growth on other grounds. Your measures are not respected. We don't know if they're absolutely justified, we never talked about it. We're facing a policy of the final act. But it can't go on forever. The IMF is coming and going. We're not familiar with the platform which is the basis of your appearance in front of the IMF. We're in debt, we're taking loans, which in itself doesn't have to be bad, but here in June you were defending credit arrangements. You couldn't tell us what interest it was made on. It wasn't in decisions or laws, it was in your opinion. Tomorrow we're talking about the loans our country takes to build its own infrastructure. Are there projects for such a thing or will loans be granted and then projects will be made? Who's responsible for that? Why isn't there a bypass, what about Corridor 10, with the expropriation of the country? There are too many questions, and these questions are being asked years ago. (President: Time. ) Just explain it to us for these 130 billion euros and what about these three million.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29184	Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29185	I hope I've explained for these 130 billion. These are their own revenues, dedicated revenues from direct and indirect budget users, regulated by special laws, not the Budget Law. When it is said that something is being decided outside the budget process, it does not mean that it is being passed by the law. But what's the best practice in the world, I'd like to add, is that everything is in front of the public, public opinion, parliament too, and it's best to see all the revenues and spending in the budget. That's what we're trying to do. I don't know, Mr. Jovanovic, what do you expect, but I'm going to have to tell you about the measures you call ad hoc. Some of them are, there's no choir. For example, cell phone tax is an ad hoc measure. Taking 40% of their own revenues from direct and indirect budget users, of which have partially given up, is ad hoc measures. But I have to tell you, such ad hoc measures have brought significant results. I don't like the deficit, not in private, and especially not in public life, but the deficit is a cure for recession, and this is exactly the kind of policy that led to the rate of economic downturn being lower than planned, that incomes are bigger than we thought two or three months ago. It may be very close to what we planned for rebalancing. This means that the measures have brought results. I agree that the role of the state is not to encourage individual companies, but it is the role of the state to invest in infrastructure, it is the role of the state that, when there is not enough of its own liquidity, borrow money and credit market and inject liquidity on the economy. And it's done. The state is in charge of Corridor 10, but I have to tell you, as much as we like or don't like borrowing, it's a perfectly normal thing. And as much as you think we're too in debt, I have to tell you that we, as a state, are one of the least in charge of the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29186	Mr Jovanovic has the right to an additional issue for up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29187	Mrs Dragutinović, we will easily agree on what is good. The deficit is not the result. We can view the deficit as an instrument. But this is a political debate and we can talk somewhere else about these narrow economic issues, which should not burden this debate. If we're talking about the results of your policy, with a smaller or larger deficit, then they have to be measured as measured worldwide, which is: an increase or a decline in the unemployment rate. I don't think we should stick our finger around the government right now because there's an increase in the number of unemployed. I don't see any use in that, but I see something else. The third time you didn't answer my question – what led you to vote for a decision that required a company that is down to 170 million to spend another three million, two weeks before the company was transformed into a mixed state-owned company with a Russian Federation in which the Russians have a majority? We talked here a year ago about the unsustainability of a relationship with society. And you yourself, by your comments, are also saying what we are saying -- that a reasonable and rational economic policy must be conducted and that society cannot be changed to populistism. I'm asking you -- what's your problem in asking for support for something like that? We don't think you should control those 130 billion you mentioned, it should be transparent, but it's not the only non-transparent field. Government decisions are non-transparent. If we can't get a responsible question about what you spent three million on, then why would someone from some local self-government be obliged to answer us how he spends the funds I raise? I think when we talk about strategy, then we deny ourselves the most effective move we can make in this crisis. Why should we finance from the Republic budget the budgets of local self-government to the extent that we do so today? But, on the other hand, we cannot reduce transfers to local self-government, and these local self-governments at the same time do not give them the right to come to their own resources in some other way. Is that something epochal different from the way this country functioned? Yeah, just in the last 13 years. By 1996, and the opposition's victory in 40 Serbian municipalities, the local self-government had its own assets and gained an independent income to a much greater extent than the one it could currently do so. Why did you take away the right of local self-government through these laws, which we're going to discuss next week because yesterday there was no one from the government to do such a thing? When we talk about economic problems, then don't ignore the fact that you're the government's representative who assured us that the crisis will bypass us, and after that, that the crisis will give us positive effects. You are a representative of the government who ignored our good will and intent to help you with some proposals, which have been rejected as unnecessary. Let's say, we were looking for an increase in insurance by deposit from three thousand to nine thousand, i.e. Three times. You said there was no need, and then after seven days, you came up with the idea to raise to 50,000, five times what you previously defined as unnecessary. And you haven't implemented that measure in the next two months. If we're talking about public spending, let's get into its structure. We don't have a problem with investment. Invest, we want to. Put yourself in charge, that's not the problem either. Well, everyone comes to capital like that, except for Romania and Ceausescu. We don't have a problem with that, but we have a problem with the efficiency of spending these funds, with projects being created after loans are taken, with the fact that pens and interest is paid on loans that are approved and not withdrawn, because we can't meet the criteria. That's what we're interested in. Department of the system? We do not have two board members of the country's most profitable company, NIS, because the parties cannot agree. It's irresponsible and unserious, especially in this situation. If we're talking about public spending - yes, but why through pensions? That's how we spend the future and pensioners and their children and their grandchildren. If we tighten the belt, let's tighten it once with meaning, and ask how much longer we have to struggle, since it's only certain in this country that life is every kind of torment. So let's make some sense of it. We live in the ruins of the world that our parents created for us. Let's see if we can make any new sense of it. So let's introduce this egalitarianism that we're talking about, but not between employees and pensioners, but within the user of the pension fund. Twenty percent of our "ji-di-pi" is covered by exports and 15% by pension fund obligations. Such a country cannot survive, and we will discuss it in a year's time in much more difficult terms than today, as we are today discussing the missed chances of a year ago. Let's work this out. And tell me about the three million.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29188	The word is Mr. Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29189	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will mainly address finance and agriculture. I regret to say that there is no Minister for Agriculture here and neither is the Prime Minister, but I hope the Finance Minister will be able to answer most of my questions competently. I want, first of all, to say that agriculture in our country is a very important business branch and that it has a significant share in GDP, and it moves somewhere between 11% and 12%, and if food industry is added there, it's 20%, even more than 20%. Our agricultural production through exports is making foreign exchange surpluses. In our country there are a small number of businesses with foreign exchange surpluses, and one of them is agriculture. Agriculture, with the volume of production achieved this year, also affected the absence of an even greater decline in social product than it was or will be. Negotiations are under way with the IMF and their request is to generally reduce subsidies. My question is – will the subsidies for the area of agriculture be reduced, because in the budget are the largest part of the subsidies precisely subsidies for agricultural production? I am also interested in the amount of the agricultural budget, because the requirement of most agricultural organisations and associations of agricultural producers is that this year the agrarian budget be a minimum of 5% of the total budget. Unfortunately, in 2009, the agrarian budget fell to a miserable 2.2%, meaning only what was allocated from the budget. If you take the total amount, it's again below 3%, which is again significantly less than it was in the previous years. If you can, at least indicative, say – what is the projection of the agrarian budget for this year? In the end, I still want to ask the following. The Agriculture Committee held a session in Sjenica and Novi Pazar two weeks ago. We are informed in Sjenica that there is an extremely difficult situation in the municipality, that in 50% of schools are now, at the beginning of winter, there is no possibility of heating. It was literally said by the president of the municipality that students bring wood to warm up. There is a similar situation in preschool and health institutions. The question is, has the Government been informed of the situation in Sjenica and, if notified, will it take action? If not, after the adoption of the minutes from the Committee's session, we, as a Committee, will deliver to the Government the state that has been shown to us by... (President: Time. Thank you. All right, I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29190	Mrs Dragutinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29191	Mr. Jovanovic asked me, and I forgot to say, what is the platform when it comes to negotiations with the IMF. So, the platform is to import that combination of monetary and fiscal policy that will certainly most favour the economy in which it is presently located. It will be some mild expansion of fiscal policy, but also monetary policy, and they will allow it. On the other hand, the fiscal space we have for expansion is not great, and we need to be aware of that, especially when it comes to expenditures such as subsidies. I can tell you what the requests were for budgetary users, or the Ministry of Agriculture, when it came to subsidies, and what was the counterproposal of the Ministry of Finance. You know very well that subsidies are indeed significantly reduced in 2009 compared to 2008, but there is something that is indisputable. I'll call in a recent survey. It is a rule that applies in all countries of the world, even in Serbia -- the more resources you give someone, the less effective it uses them. It's the same in the lives of ordinary people. When you have more money, you're less responsible for that money. I think we should always give everyone a lot less than they're asking. Of course, it's all a matter of measure. I can tell you that the demands of the Ministry of Agriculture were about to make the agricultural budget 25 billion. In 2009, it was set at a level of 15 billion, but there are own revenues that partially neutralized this huge decline. What will eventually happen -- it will be bigger than it was in 2009, but there won't be too much space to be like it was in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29192	Mr. Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29193	Unfortunately, I have to comment on this. I think this is bad news for our agricultural producers, and there is no way that the logic that the Minister has just made can be applied, that the extra funds can have a negative impact. On the contrary, it also disproves the EU's only actions, which we seek to join, because I assume you know that the vast majority of this budget is allocated to agricultural production and agriculture. There, the logic of 'do not hold water' is not applied, but rather invested primarily in rural development. The focus of funding in the area of agriculture in the EU is primarily on the area. Unfortunately, in our country, in the past two or three years it has been the least invested, and that is why we have a situation where our villages are literally dying, that where the largest number of agricultural producers is a large number of nursing households and, in the end, we have an extremely poor demographic situation, that about 40,000 people die more than they are born. This demographic situation can only be fixed in these rural areas, in rural areas, to keep young people living there, to deal with agricultural production, and can only survive if there are more money and more incentives. Because agricultural production is a specific production. It requires investments to make the products that are produced then sold and to return that money. Unfortunately, we have a very unstable market for agricultural products and oscillation. Many people who have entered certain productions, credits, have extremely big problems because they cannot service these loans because the agricultural products they have produced cannot sell closely at the prices they have calculated, cannot provide even a simple reproduction in their landhold and cannot service those loans. In a situation where it is not yet close to joining the EU, using these EU funds, it means that agricultural producers are left with only aid from our own budget, if this government does not have hearing or succumb to IMF pressures and reduces subsidies to agricultural production, I think you will have, as a government, serious problems to explain to farmers why you are running such a policy. Don't forget, a year and a half ago, during the pre-election period, you promised an agrarian budget of 400m euros. What changed now is not even close to thinking about that number, but about about 25 billion? The total budget this year is 26 billion. With those funds that the Ministry of Agriculture had, the total budget was 26 billion. If this year's budget for 2010 is to be 25 billion, it means it is even smaller than in 2009, and it has been halved in half compared to 2004, when it was another minister from, however, the ruling party. I think that's final, don't mind me, but still, a non-serious policy and you need to find a solution to provide much more resources than is provided in this year and to allow quality incentives for agricultural production, especially livestock production. She's in serious trouble and she's in a serious crisis. In addition, to help export agricultural products, as well as to form various associations of agricultural producers that will defend the interests of their production, as I would say, because the poorly implemented privatisation of our processing facilities in either entity is not the co-owners of the primary agricultural producers, but they are some other people who have no interest in improving primary production... (President: Time. All right, I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29194	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29195	We haven't had much luck with the government today, asking the questions and the answers we've been getting. As it was at the sitting in the morning, so continued the afternoon. For these reasons, unfortunately, I have to repeat some of the questions that have been asked before, which, unfortunately, have run out of quality answers. This morning, we asked the government very clearly, represented here by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who is not presently present, probably for justified reasons, although he said in the morning that he would explain a little more detailed answer to the questions he was asked at the afternoon session. But, I see, he's gone. The issue was very simple, the government's relationship to constitutional obligations, and on one occasion, the issue was raised. So, I repeat, how is it possible that after all this time there is no verification of the Statute of the Vojvodina in the National Assembly? How is it possible to open a sharp controversy on the Statute of Vojvodina (which, by the way, is unacceptable for us from the DSS because it is anti-constitutional as a proposal and as established statute in the province, so should not pass this home) without having to argue first in the Government as a draft and not pass important laws that must, according to the logic of things and according to the Constitution, precede any confirmation of the Statutes of the Vojvodina in parliament? How is it possible that we don't have an AP Vojvodina transfer law on the table so far? How is it possible we don't have a bill on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? How is it possible we don't have the property law of territorial self-government units? How is it possible that we don't have a law on the type and amount of income that Vojvodina will earn? How is it possible that we don't have it in the National Assembly? How is it possible not to take care of any other obligations arising from the Article. 15. Constitutional law? You're acting, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as if the Constitution has allowed you to have 20 mandates and all the time in this world to respond to constitutional obligations, obligations under that same constitution that we've passed, and the constitutional law that follows it. How is that possible? This is most likely because this same government does not care about other legal obligations, the laws that this National Assembly adopts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29196	Time, Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Although this was more of a commentary. Mr. Milos Aligrudic wants to speak again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29197	You know what, and silence is the answer, so since it's some kind of answer, it requires comment and some additional questions. Since they don't know how they can break the Constitution, I accept that. Okay, the one who points out that he's been breaking the Constitution all along, says he doesn't know how it's possible. Let's take it for granted. So, ladies and gentlemen, you're breaking the Constitution, it's obvious, by your silence you've confirmed it, but since the time has been so short, I've stopped at half a sentence, and I'm going to continue it now, so maybe it will provoke one of the government representatives or ministers to answer that part of the question. How is it possible for the Government to treat not only the Constitution but also the laws of the Assembly? You know that the budget of the law and you know very well that according to two general acts, the laws passed by this National Assembly, the Government, taking care of the state's finances and the state's spending, must also respect them from the first letter to the last letter. You can't spend more than you planned. When someone in a local self-government or a public enterprise starts spending more than they have or what he's planning, then there's all the noise about it, the police, the judiciary and the newspapers are going to be full of it. How is it possible that, when the budget deficit limit for this year is forecasted by the previous rebalance of 70 billion, that the same government, according to the Ministry of Finance's report of 5 October, will find out that the deficit has been breached by four billion, and according to its logic, by the end of the year it will be broken and five times so, at least, five times by the end of the year? How can it not occur to you, given that you are following this data, that one moment you come to the National Assembly and say - ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, or MPs, if you don't want to respect us differently, we have a problem because it's obvious that we're going to break the budget deficit and suggest you rebalance the budget that this thing has to fix? I understand that budget deficits can be planned, but let's keep in mind one thing: budget deficits in the state are planned because they have to and can be covered from real sources. The budget deficit is a kind of self-loan, predicting that something will be spent that we don't have at some point, but it has to and can be compensated, so it's planned. You did plan to cover that deficit, eventually, it's not controversial, and we all know very well and where you were planning to do it. The problem is, you don't want to put out a strategy, you don't want to make it clear to the people how and how you plan it, because if you said it publicly and openly, systematically, clearly, then the sky would fall on your head. It's just going to be from these loans that are mentioned -- the IMF, various other loans... It is that part of it will be invested in infrastructure, which we have nothing against, it's a great thing because infrastructure is the only thing that will bring something back to us, but I'm afraid that a cluster of these funds will just be envisaged to fill a black budget gap. And you have to predict a black budget gap in terms of deficits because there has to be some mass consumption in order for the system to function and survive. What I do not understand is – how can you disobey the law of this country and react honestly and correctly in time, and come to the National Assembly with a proposal for budget rebalance? Why isn't that done? Do you have one single healthy argument that you couldn't come three or four weeks ago to the Serbian Parliament and say, okay, budget deficit has been broken, something happened, something we couldn't plan to do in time, things are catching up to each other, but please, let the problem be, in five days, and in 15 days, we have a need to bring a budget rebalance? You don't say that. Why? For political reasons. What are the reasons? That's why someone doesn't mind you running into budget rebalances for breaking the four-billion deficits. Is that a shame? I'm telling you that much more embarrassing is what you're doing. Much bigger than what you think it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29198	The word is Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29199	You really can't spend more than planned, you're absolutely right. So, no more spending than planned, that's just impossible. I'll answer your question or, I don't know what to call it, your findings, government behavior, technical and economic. Economically, I think it's been announced more than once that there's going to be budget rebalance, and you know it very well. Also, several times it was announced when budget rebalances would occur, so it was known. I'm the technical answer to your question is that income and expenditure flow and that they happen at every point of the time period. So when you adopt the budget and commit to some deficit, that doesn't mean that at every point in the time period, it... So, let's say, since you got the budget, it seems to me that it was the end of September, the deficit at that point was really bigger than it was planned, but only five days after it was ten billion less. So we didn't commit to having a deficit at every point in time. Sometimes it can be bigger, sometimes it can be smaller -- it's a technical response.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29200	Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29201	I totally understood your answer and really, in this, as you said, you're right. The problem is only in something else – do we speak honestly? Yeah, technically, what you said, you're right. It can't fit at any point in time that the deficit is equal to the planned, because of income and expenditure ratios, and it can swim. The problem is that experts who follow the economic situation, financial policy and the financial situation of Serbia speak quite the opposite. That's what you might be hiding from us. And that was the essence of my question - is it true... Unfortunately, you won't get a chance to answer this, so I'm not even going to ask that as an intriguing question that would cause you any trouble today. So the question remains in the air – is it just one point in time or is it a tendency that will prove to be a tendency of decline by the end of the year? But you've partly answered my question, through an explanation of what was the inflow of funds the next day. I would take the opportunity, since Mr Mirko Cvetkovic may have followed the debate and perhaps not, he has come now and unfortunately there will be no opportunity to respond to this, but, publicly, when we asked at the beginning about constitutional obligations, which the government obviously does not meet, and in particular by apostrophe to the AP Vojvodina, however, there is a law that must precede the statute, the answer in the morning was like this – when it comes specifically to the issue of the law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, there are conflicting views of the lawyers on whether in a specific case is late or not. As a matter of fact, attitudes about whether it was necessary to initiate the procedure by a certain deadline or to end, were actually to pass the law. What law? Until what time? The Constitution has a fixed deadline, the constitutional law has established deadlines. Should I begin the procedure? Do you think, if the procedure begins, that's enough for you and you never have to end it? The idea was that if MPs and citizens saw that you were not finishing the job, that it was going on forever, someone asked you a question and said – excuse me, why is it taking so long, what's the big problem with that? If the problem is in the text of the Vojvodina Statutes proposal, if it causes dilemmas within the biggest party of the ruling coalition, the DS, open that up, and let's hear what it is. We know there's a problem. The problem is that the draft statute violates the Constitution. It does not violate it, but will be violated by a confirmed proposal for a statute, or a statute, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But, of course, that needs to be changed radically, not by making some kind of, as the public hears, legal-technical editorials of the text. So that's not possible. And what needs to be done before, to pass a package of laws, you don't present any package of laws in front of the National Assembly. And they can take the calm souls of the Serbian government as proposals, in accordance with the Serbian Constitution, to be brought before the National Assembly and then put two things next to each other and decide what is called the confirmation of the Duke's statutes. You don't do that. It's been going on for months. In all that time, the president of the National Assembly, whose questions are not being asked today, but only the information is working, so you know, since I don't know if we've faced that truth, has on the table a bill on the transfer of powers of the AP Vojvodina submitted by a group of DSS and NS MPs, and does not systematically put it on the agenda in the regular session of the National Assembly. So if there's anything wrong with it, then you come out with the amendments to that bill and we discuss it, so if it doesn't suit you, you reject it. It can't be discussed. Secondly, you're saying that the DSS proposal, the one we're talking about, is going to trigger controversial debates. Oh, no, you don't. It's like what you're doing so far isn't causing controversy. Of course it does. That's your problem. Simply, with this kind of work, with this attitude towards the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, this country will not go far. The sooner you leave, not you, but Mr Tadic, who keeps you as a puppet there, the better the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29202	These were your findings. Actually, you didn't ask the question. Mrs Stojanka Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29203	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, 88 hosts, who are prominent, honest and working, from the territory of the municipality of Zvecan, spoke to me, individually, on several occasions, to help them solve the problem, which they addressed in the previous period, primarily to the President of the Zvecan municipality, Kfor Zvecan, the Kosovo Police Service, and in the last month of the MUP, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which, to this day, did not discuss this material. Since I come as an MP from that municipality, I have an obligation and a task to bring up the problems they face. Since I don't have enough time, I'll read their memo addressing special ministries, because their problems will be best presented. "This letter informs you that organized groups of criminals on the territory of the municipality of Zvečan for the last five years in dozens of night robberies carried out from the stables and courtyards of Serb hosts have stolen over 100 cattle, especially cows, several tractors and other agricultural machines, meat from the droughts, poisoned the wellwater, intercepted and robbed individuals, wounded at gas stations, and committed several murders. We provide you with a list of the order of these criminal activities, with the date and place of execution. In addition to multiple times required involvement by all government institutions, which, according to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999, have had the force of coercion on this ground, their inactions have not stopped the crimes, and the culprits have not been found. On the contrary, they multiplied and became more drastic in criminal activities. That is why we, the damaged inhabitants of the municipality of Zvecan, Zvecan and the village of Mali Zvecan, Mali Rudar, Grabovac, Korilja, Matice, Doljana, Žerovnica, Sendol, Žitkovec, Valč, Bresnica, Banjska and Lokva, address you with a request that you, in accordance with your constitutional and legal powers and obligations, in collaboration with KFOR and Unmik, be in accordance with the provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, from 10 June 1999, under your constitutional rights and obligations, in mutual coordination, and in accordance with the Agreement on the control of cross-border criminal activities signed with EULEX, as soon as possible, after being informed of the factual situation in which we are objecting and considering the whole situation, each in your domain decide... '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29204	Time. Thank you. You'll have time to comment. Practically, it's one more finding. I didn't understand the exact wording of the question. You've got five minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29205	So, I'm talking to the MUP. Is there a possibility of finding and prosecuted organized perpetrators? That's one question. The second question – can the Ministry of Justice provide legal protection to those who are at risk? The third question – can the Ministry of KIM and the Ministry of Agriculture provide material assistance to the stolen and damaged, because that is the only way, i.e. The funds allocated to them can help such households revive their activities? In all of this, I want to say that the damage they've suffered is really great. I'm just gonna name some of the biggest ones. Otherwise, the total damage is about 357,710 euros. For example, Stavro Velimirović, Doljani village – 1,200 euros; Markovic Radoslav, Malo Rudare – 2,500 euros; Petković Tomislav, village Zitkovic – 10,000 euros; Milentjevic Milet, village of Valac – 8000 euros; Milivoje Jevtic, village Grabovac – 4,000 euros; Milos Antic, Mali Zvecan – 7,000 euros; Srdjan Radovanovic, Mali Zvečan - 9,200 euros; Miletić Dragoljub from Zvecan, Korilje – 7,000 euros; Zivkovic Zivko, village Zitkovic – 7,500 euros etc. It's a huge asset. People are looking for protection and they're talking. I'm sorry the KIM minister isn't here today. They're asking to find a chance to find the guilty, those who have committed crimes, and in all of this, I think the Home Secretary can also contribute and help these people because, as I said, they have turned to everyone and have no protection. As an epilogue of all that is something that is very sad and unfortunate. Come, visit these villages and you will see that people have begun to build within the stables of metal cages with locks, to protect their cattle, and not to come into conflict with the attackers. They claim in their letter that the perpetrators are actually Serbs who sell cattle and their property to Albanians, and they have proof of all this because the traces show and lead towards Albanian villages. They also claim to see cattle that are quite peaceful in Albanian villages and that no one can steal it because Kosovo police would react, and that they, on the other hand, are very unprotected. I have to say that the Zvečan municipality is almost absolutely a Serbian environment and I think that some authorities know who's doing it all, but that these things don't stop. So, on behalf of 88 honest households, please the MUP, the KIM Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture to help them, each in their own domain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29206	Do any of the members of the government present want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, the word is Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29207	It is certain that during the last period, especially in the last few months, or so, it has been said in the last year, especially after leaving the Serbs from the police there, there has been a vacuum, and I want to say very clearly here that, regardless of what we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what kind of political debates and fights we are having and whether we have different opinions on certain topics, I would really call on all political parties to, when we talk about topics where we want to outwit each other, we take care of what expressions we use and whether we are hurting national and state interests. I want to be fully responsible for telling you that KIM in KIM territory doesn't have any members and I'm asking you to remember that. Whether it is a community of Serb municipalities at KIM, which may want to do so, by criticising the interior minister, to bring some political points to the parties that make it, or some other party, since 1999, our country has no members of the KIM MUP. I also told the people of Eulex that we would be very quick and very happy to solve the problems that exist, at least in the Serb municipalities in the north of KIM. But we don't have that kind of opportunity. I am prepared to help, along with the other ministers involved in this plan, with the exchange of information with Eulex, and according to a six-point plan put forward by the UN Secretary-General, there should be some Serb command line in the Kosovo Police Service, where Serbs have returned. Those cops are supposed to be dealing with it. At this point, we don't have police stations in Kosovo, we don't have police stations, we don't have our officers, and that's why we're going to inform the KIM Ministry, and, of course, some other competent state authorities, that by exchanging information, we get some information and that at least these people are sanctioned. So I'm asking you not to talk about this, as well as the subject of issuing passports and ID cards on KIM. It wasn't done at the time of my term of office. Since biometric passports and IDs have been issued, they are no longer issued in KIM territory. Please, when we talk about this, as far as the police and the MUP are concerned, we unfortunately don't have any authority by Resolution 1244 on KIM and we don't have our own members there. But we are prepared to help our people and all the citizens of KIM, as far as possible, through political channels, through the KIM Ministry. I also want to tell you that there is still a problem with visiting our state officials in Kosovo and Metohija. These visits are not possible for everyone. That's still the problem. Among other things, there was a big problem and whether the president of the assembly, I apologize, she is not here now, will visit KIM or not. That's the reality we're facing today. When we talk about political issues, all we have to do is take care of where the border is between national and national interests and something that represents certain political points. I have to tell you, the place I'm in is where I'm supposed to talk like this. Once again I say - we will do everything within the limits of what we can in accordance with Resolution 1244. Of the Serb KPS members of our KIM ministry, the authorities of the local KIM government elected in the Serbian local elections should demand greater engagement on this one. Stealing cattle and you, so-called. Immigrants have become everyday, and you know it, and that's something that can be prevented relatively easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29208	The word has a letter from Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29209	Your Honor, in my address, I didn't look back on politics, nor did I want to score political points. I did not give my opinion, but read a letter from 88 hosts from the Zvecan municipality. I haven't talked for a moment about passports or visa liberalisation, and I'm really asking you not to take this the wrong way and we're not politicizing this issue. It's only about finding the guilty and the compensation of the damaged honest citizens. That is what they have spoken to you for, if you have listened to me well. That, in accordance with the agreement you signed with Eulex, you help them find and punish the people who did this. And by the KIM Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture, if there is a possibility, as far as financial resources are concerned, to help them buy cattle, so they can start living again normally. It was the meaning of message 88 households, and I only, as an MP from that municipality, submitted their request, not in the sense of my political party. I think I'm an MP for all the citizens in that territory, and for that reason I'm speaking to you. Not just to you, but to the other ministers. That's why I want you to understand me correctly. It's absolutely not politics, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29210	The word is Hansel Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29211	I wasn't just talking about what you said, so it's possible you didn't understand what I was going to say. I didn't have a chance to react in parliament because the laws we propose here weren't mine, but I have to take this opportunity to say that there have been public statements, especially by the Community of Serb municipalities on KIM, which is usually attended by a party whose president I am, where it is publicly said that the Serbian police have 1,000 members of KIM and whose task it is to do so. I don't know if we need to work against ourselves. We don't have Serbian cops on KIM, the MUP doesn't have any members there, absolutely, and I want to do it again. I certainly don't expect the ministry I run, or anything else, to have any international support or consensus. I'm talking about national and state issues here, and I want you to know that. When it comes to protocol with Eulex, it is signed on the basis of Resolution 1244 and the UN Secretary-General's report, which speaks of six points, and it speaks exclusively of the exchange of information when it comes to criminal activities. The protocol has not yet begun to apply, above all, because of the opposition of these so-called so-called. Pristina authorities, but we'll certainly take advantage of the opportunity to introduce them to all these things. I would like to point out once again that people who have returned to the Kosovo Police Service with the idea that there is a Serb command line, in line with one of six points, when this topic was even discussed in the UN Secretary-General's report. Please don't even realize that it's a reaction to what you just said. We, in our activities, will pay attention to everything that's going on, but I want everyone to know that, so that we don't have any more problems tomorrow because of what we say to each other in the heat of political struggle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29212	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic - which measures and what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia take on the obvious attempts of a part of the international community, in particular the United States, to revise the Dayton Peace Agreement? The SRS reminds the Serbian Prime Minister that, according to the first member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is primarily the state of the Serbian people, so the states of all Serbs, wherever they live. Also, I would like to remind him that one of the signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement is the late SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic and that the Republic of Serbia, in the principle of legal follow-up of the SRJ, is a guarantee of the preservation of the basic principles set out in the 1995 Dayton peace agreements. Puni, the real name of the Dayton Peace Agreement, reads: The General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. So, from the name of this agreement, it is clear that the Dayton principles are, in fact, a guarantee of the preservation of peace in BiH. We are witnessing the fact that the United States is trying, not only this year, but back several years, to reduce the constitutional, state and political capacities of Republika Srpska, with the ultimate intention of unitarising BiH. As you know, the attempt to force the Serbian people to live in unitary BiH and be separated from the SRJ has also led to the outbreak of armed conflicts in BiH in 1992. And anyone seeking a revision of the Dayton Peace Agreement, to the detriment of Republika Srpska and to the harm of the Serb people, does not really want peace in BiH. The SRS is interested in what the Serbian government intends to do about this problem, given the fact that Serbia is a guarantee of respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and a guarantee of the preservation of Republika Srpska. In this sense, the SRS is particularly interested -- what is the topic of talks between Serbian President Boris Tadic and Republika Srpska's political representatives? The Serbian public must know about it. When I say Serbian public, I mean both Serbian citizens and citizens of Republika Srpska. The issue of respect or disrespect for the Dayton Peace Accords cannot be a matter of some partnerly or friendly relations between Boris Tadic and Milorad Dodik. These are the things that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29214	Time, Mr. MP. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29215	I thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to expose the government's policy on relations with BiH, in relation to the Dayton Agreement and the Republika Srpska. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is based on two basic principles. The first principle is that we, as we ask for others to respect our country's territorial integrity, also respect BiH's territorial integrity. The second pillar of that policy is that the inner order is the thing of those who live there, but without majorization. We expect the arrangements to be reached there, but only with the agreement of both entities and all three constituent peoples, and when such agreements are reached, all that they agree to, we will also admit it. In other words, the policy is that BiH's internal affairs will solve them, and if Republika Srpska has its own interests, it will, of course, defend them within that dialogue. With great optimism, we believe that this problem will be resolved to the satisfaction of all the parties who live there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29216	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29217	It is interesting, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you have never once mentioned the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. You mentioned some sides, conversations, agreements, etc. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, don't have to know that, because you're not a lawyer, although as Prime Minister, it wouldn't be bad for you to know. Anyone who told you that BiH and the Republic of Serbia should be compared to each other has done a terrible trick on you. The Republic of Serbia is a unitary state, which brought its own constitution. BiH is a specific form of confederation. The BiH Constitution is one of the annexes of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, or the Dayton Agreement. You can't say now - we'll accept everything the sides agree on. You can only accept what's written in the Dayton Agreement. Nothing more, but nothing less. Everything else means pushing all three peoples into BiH into a new armed conflict. It's clear to you, Mr. Cvetkovic, that there are no equal party conversations here. This is about the fact that the United States openly supports representatives of only one people in BiH, and that is Muslim, to implement the unitaryisation of BiH. In other words, Republika Srpska's powers to this extent are reduced to a minimum so that we can freely say that Republika Srpska is no more. You haven't told us anything about what the government of Serbia's position is about. Talks in Butmir. These aren't individual conversations. These are the talks that concern the fate of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. The SRS is interested in the fate of the Serbian people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and I believe the vast majority of Serbian citizens, regardless of their political or party membership. That language you speak, don't get it wrong, but the language of a cold clerk and bureaucrat, it's not the language to speak today, when it's obvious that those who actually lit the fuse of war in BiH, which is the United States, are now trying to do it again. You may not want to be a guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement. You may find that obligation difficult, you may not know what to do with that obligation, but the fact is it's your duty. You, when you became Serbian Prime Minister, also got a job taking care of Republika Srpska. You can't say now -- we don't care what happens to Republika Srpska, it'll be as agreed. Republika Srpska, on the one hand, is an entity that enjoys the protection of the Republic of Serbia as a guarantor of the Dayton Agreement. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia with Republika Srpska maintains special parallel ties. And now you say to us, "Well, here we are, not getting involved in how they agree, that's how it's going to be for them." These conversations that are being held these days are about the same as the talks in Rambuje in 1999. There's no basic conversation there. The issue is that the Serbian people are again exposed to ultimatums, just as it was during the duration of the armed conflicts in BiH. Serbia's government cannot sit down and suit us with bureaucratic language -- as sides agree. For the Serbian people in Republika Srpska, it is not simply one of the sides. It's part of our people. We, according to the Constitution of Serbia, even if there is no Dayton Agreement, as a member of the first Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, must take care of the Serbian people in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, both in Montenegro and Macedonia and in all countries of the world. We don't think you do it the way the Constitution obliges you. You can't say - our only goal is to join the EU and there isn't a sanctity we're not going to step on to join the EU. Then we enter a vicious circle. You say -- we want to join the EU, and the EU tells you -- you can't go to the EU until you give up KIM until you give up some extreme powers to the AP Vojvodina and you raise your hands from Republika Srpska. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia knows that's the case. And you insist on the issue -- we want to join the EU, but as a comprehensive state. I really don't know how many times EU officials need to tell you that they don't want Serbia as a comprehensive state in their composition. If statements by people like Jelko Kacin and Doris Pak are not a clear message of the true intentions of the EU, then you, Mr Cvetkovic, about politics, I'm sorry, you don't know anything. Because Jelko Kacin and Doris Pack... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29218	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29219	Dear People's MP, I've been very interested in listening to your presentations, and I must say, I've been completely confused. In fact, I have decidedly said this - that the policy of our government is that it will accept everything that the sides agree, without interference on the side. You don't agree with that. Can I understand that, contrary to this, if you disagree with that view, you actually want this government not to accept what the sides agree on, and secondly, to insist on meddling on domestic affairs? I see it as the opposite of what I said. Also, I didn't mention the EU at all. You asked me about BiH and I answered nicely. On this occasion, you gave a pretty good elaborate, which brought me personally, but it really is unclear to me now that your party supports the stance against the agreements within BiH and from where it supports the position that a solution should be imposed on the side, because these two attitudes are contrary to what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29221	Mr. Cvetkovic, you've really done something that I didn't think would go with your hand. And in the second exhibition, you managed to avoid the mention of Republika Srpska. I listened very carefully, you said "strane" and "BiH." The Serbian Radical Party, Mr Cvetkovic, doesn't care what happens to BiH, what we care about is what happens to Republika Srpska. You keep avoiding answering the SRS question. We didn't invent interference in Republika Srpska's position, that mixing is a fact. This interference comes from your political friends and allies, from the United States and the EU. We're asking you to answer the question of what your government is going to do about this interference, and you're answering me for something I haven't asked you at all. I did not ask the Serbian government's position on the talks, as you say, of the BiH side, but what the government will do about the fact that a part of the international community insists on violating the Dayton Peace Agreement. The talks in Butmir are in fact the official beginning of the Dayton Peace Agreement infringement process. The talks aim to establish a new state in BiH, a new arrangement that is contrary to the Dayton Agreement. Anything that means denying the Dayton Agreement, anything that means denying Republika Srpska, actually means provoking new armed conflicts. I don't know if you, as Prime Minister, listen to statements from people like Sulejman Tihic, Zeljko Komsic, Haris Silajdzic, etc. Those statements are hateful -- not according to this or that politician, Serbia or Republika Srpska, but towards Republika Srpska, the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people. Did you hear they sewed their mouths in Zenica because Biljana Plavsic was released from Sweden before time, the same one, Biljana Plavsic, who in The Hague tribunal accused Serbs of alleged genocide in Srebrenica. So, they see Biljana Plavsic as a threat to Muslims in BiH. Imagine, then, what they think of people like Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, Vojislav Seselj and others. Probably, if I could, like in those Turkish times, they'd be stuck on a stake. You're not responding to that. I ask you, why do you not respond and why do you keep silent? Is it possible that this utopian goal of 'EU at all costs' can mean - we don't care what happens to Kosovo and Metohija, we don't care what happens to Vojvodina and we don't care what happens to Republika Srpska? Do you want to introduce Belgrade pashalu or the Republic of Serbia into the EU? What's your real goal? The Serbian Radical Party asks you that and I ask you to give a concrete answer to that question. We did not ask you what would happen to BiH, but what would happen to Republika Srpska. Let the one who made such a state think about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are interested in what will happen to Republika Srpska and the Serb people in Republika Srpska. It is obvious, Mr. Cvetkovic, that there are plans for Republika Srpska to simply "divide", to disappear, to drown in some new unitary BiH. You know how it started in BiH, with that referendum that only Muslims and Croats attended, about BiH being declared a sovereign and independent state, separate from the SFRY. That's when the BiH conflicts began. So you can't unscheduledly and so bureaucratically treat the fact that someone is re-provoking armed conflicts west of Drina. Who is this someone? Well, this someone is the same one marked by Ratko Mladic in 1994, when NATO attacks on the positions of the Republika Srpska Army began. At that time, General Mladic told the true truth about what is happening in BiH. The keys to war and peace are not in BiH, the keys to war and peace are today in Washington and Brussels. You say they're your political allies and they're your political friends. I ask you - what measures will you take with your political friends to protect Republika Srpska from its disappearance?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29222	Mr. Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29223	I was talking about the government policy. To repeat, the government's policy is to recognise BiH's integrity, and that internal arrangements should be determined by the residents themselves, with the consent of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, and with agreement with the Serb people, Muslims and Croats. It's a policy that we support and we don't think a solution should be imposed on the side. We are fighting for this policy in this way that we are fighting with our partners, both in the EU, which you have already mentioned twice, and also with the United States, talking and exposing our views to them and using all diplomatic means to accept this policy. It seems, based on these conversations, that it has largely the support of the other side, and let's wait for the process to go its course. Anyway, we certainly will not accept a solution that has not been reached by consensus within Bosnia and Herzegovina itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29224	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Mikovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, my question has been referred first and foremost to Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and concerns the lives and perspectives of ordinary people's lives. We're in a situation where ordinary citizens have extra life costs due to the coming winter. We know that many are in a difficult material situation, and that is why I believe that there is a great obligation for all of us to monitor the price stability situation. My question, which I expect to be answered immediately by Mr Milosavljevic, is to say what is being done to maintain price stability, whether the obligations of the Memorandum are respected and what measures are being implemented in price control. I think this is a very important issue, primarily because of ordinary people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29226	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29227	Dear President, Mr. Mikovic, honourable Members of the People, allow me to make one conclusion at the beginning of the answer to this question. Total movements in the segment of the price and cost of life from the beginning of the year to today are one of the successes of economic policy that has also contributed to macroeconomic stability in a very difficult year, in which both the economy of Serbia and the citizens and society have been exposed to the serious and strong influences of the global economic crisis. In particular, prices have increased slightly since the beginning of the year, ending in September, by around 9.4%, with the total current growth in consumer prices since December, as of September, at 6.2%, the cost of life increased by about 6%, industrial product prices also by about 6%, and this is moving in the framework of the economic policy memorandum for 2009. Analyzing price developments since the beginning of the year, in conclusion with these days, two periods have been observed. The first is the beginning of the year, when we had a more intense price increase, primarily because of adapting fiscal policy to the impact of the crisis, through correcting excise duties. But what is particularly important is that in the last four months, counting from June, in September, we have either zero price increases or even deflation, which was particularly significant in July, -0.9%. In August we had deflation 0.1%, in June we had zero price increases and the last data was for September, the price rise is only 0.3%. These are, about, trends that will continue until the end of the year and, as we have suggested, we will do everything we can to ensure that prices, primarily of electricity and gas for households, remain at the existing level by the end of the year. What characterizes the trend in prices since the beginning of the year, which has significantly contributed to this rate of inflation, is the rise in oil and derivatives prices. More than 40% have been increased since the beginning of the year, with September, and this is largely due to oil market developments, which, unfortunately due to oil imports, are almost impossible to influence. You all know that there is that regulation that prices are two weeks in line with stock exchange movements and that price growth of more than 40% since the beginning of the year has had an impact as an imputation and in the prices of many products. It's also a slightly more intense increase in drug prices, about 24% since the beginning of the year, and the price of public urban transport by about 20%. Practically, in all other segments we have calm and stable prices. When we are overall assessing economic movements from the beginning of the year to these days, we can realize that moving on the segment was one of the factors of macroeconomic stability, which is what we can first of all boast in a very difficult year and, of course, to suggest that this will be the case by the end of the year. I hear a pay question. The profit level in September this year is average. The net profit was just over 31,000 dinars. That's less than 1% lower than September last year. It is true that purchasing power is somewhat smaller compared to the parallel months of the previous year, but given, once again, really serious shocks of the global economic crisis, it is still acceptable and satisfactory this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29228	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Honored members of the Government and Prime Minister, I must first of all say to Mrs Dragutinovic that the three main roles of the state are not to reduce poverty, develop infrastructure and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. These are the methodical procedures that it needs to come up with its basic and main role, which is to achieve a fair and human society for all its citizens. Of course, I welcome that these methodical procedures are applied to achieving this final goal, but it is not easy to reach that goal. Speaking of roles, our country has played many roles, from those comic dramas to those most tragic, and certainly the most tragic role of its role is seen in privatisation, which is really becoming more transparent every day in its most difficult form by the citizens of Serbia, by the employees of Serbia, those who are still fortunate to be employed in some companies, and every day they become less and less in these companies. I'm interested, first of all -- how many privatisation contracts have been broken since the privatisation started? Then how much damage is in the numbers (if anyone is seriously involved, and would have to deal with it) caused by the termination of these contracts, and who will suffer the consequences of these harmful contracts? Just to illustrate, I'm going to mention a fresh example, yesterday of a broken privatisation contract. It's from my Western District, specifically from my Sombor municipality - a privatisation contract for the Agricultural Enterprise "Borderar" Gakovo. The damage is huge. They've been working for months without pay, the company's been robbed. The company that was an agricultural giant is now on a begging stick, with a uncertain future, with the greatest certainty that everyone will be left without a serious job and some security. This is what this government would have to deal with and that in the name of transparency (and I must underline that the true meaning of the word transparency is in fact transparency), so in the name of this transparency, no matter what it means, it publishes to the citizens such information – how much the contract is broken and how much damage it is, and who thinks that it is dealing with this damage and those privates who are going through without any sanctions, and I hear that even some are announcing lawsuits against the state that are left without any means. We all know what's going on with these privatisations. It's pretty much what kind of people can own some companies. So that I may not be maligned until the end, I am really interested in it, and what is the benefit of those few privatisations that have succeeded? That's one of the questions I expect to answer. What shakes these days is the public of Serbia another wave of cancellation expected...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29230	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29231	I'd like to try to answer this first question. I don't have any specific data on me because I didn't know it was going to be a digital issue, but around, globally, according to the information I had a month or two ago, from the total number of privatized enterprises between 20% and 22% were to break contracts. So about one-fifth of the privatisations failed and four-fifths succeeded in privatisation. How much damage was done in those failed privatisations? I guess it's important. I don't know the number to tell you, but you've given good attention to one of the basic problems we're facing right now. The government is very interested in investigating, to the end, every single case of failed privatisation and, if any violations of the rules have occurred, that is to say, the unwarranted extraction of substances from the company, to initiate proceedings and penalties, both materially and criminally, those who entered the privatisation simply for the sake of obtaining benefits in this way. This thing really is very important, and at this point we put it on the agenda for consideration. I expect that in the next period we might have some kind of model of how to do it. I was talking about it this morning. It's actually about one possibility that hasn't been used enough. It's called legal action. When you have a broken privatisation, you go into the company and you see what happened backwards, how money was drawn, you have the right, if you come to the conclusion that it was done in an illegal way, to initiate the act of fearing actions and to cancel those contracts, or transactions that happened before that. Be assured that the government will stand behind this and that we will work very seriously on it. Who's gonna cover the damage? There is a general rule of law - the damage will cover the one found to have caused it. If someone purposely caused the damage, they would be sure to initiate appropriate procedures. Once again, I thank you for opening up a very current problem. The government, however, hasn't discussed it yet, but with me in the cabinet it's one of the top issues in the last month and we're going to prepare one approach to get closer to that problem. There's something else I'd like to say. This isn't just about privatisations, but we have a situation that, starting with the notion that companies are essentially institutions with so-called. limited liability to the level of capital invested, certain owners, and even the companies that they themselves set up, and did not come to them from privatisation, are in charge of these enterprises, and then flee to other companies, and since the companies are founded with small capital, then the credentials can practically not be charged from the capital of the company. These things will also be sanctioned because we want to have and create a solid economic system, in which rules will be respected and in which each trustee will have additional state protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29232	I thank the President. Mrs Đeric, comment or sub-question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29233	Thank you very much to Mr. Prime Minister for his rather exhaustive response, although the Serbian public really expects to receive concrete information in figures, because they are indisputable and real evidence. I'm continuing in line with the question I asked in the first part. What shakes the public of Serbia these days is a new wave of cancellations announced and widely bided and expected already as the next item of the agenda, you start the session earlier, to discuss it. These are two laws by emergency procedure, which have been extorted, where it is resolved and discussed the fate of employees in the administration, both state and local. It's a question that isn't really clear to the end at this point. In an explanation for the adoption of these laws, it has been announced, among other things, that there are municipalities where there are 10% higher, 20% higher, 30% more employees than the allowed number and those municipalities that did not abuse their budget and were responsible for it and have fewer employees, yet they have functioned very successfully. It would be very important to publish data before the principle debate on these laws, and that this has already come out in the public of Serbia, namely for all municipalities in Serbia (at the end of the day, our country is our common house) which and how they have dealt with their local budgets, and which of them and to what extent must they fire employees in their administration. This is what will drive many doubts and many unbelievers, and what will cause some party earthquakes, it is a special story and it should not be spoken of. The second question is, Mrs. Jasna Matic is here, so that she doesn't feel neglected and she doesn't get any questions, came right before the beginning of this session right from the post office. There is information, you will probably know that the value of bicycles bought for postmen, which the central has transferred to the task force in Serbia, per piece 47,164, 55 dinars. It is frantic for the employees of the Post Office, it opens up many doubts, and they are interested – from whom was it purchased, and what is the number of these bicycles?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29234	Mr. Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29235	I'll try to answer this first question. The reduction of the administration is part of a wider project called public sector rationalisation. We are in a situation where public spending in the forest exceeds those levels we can finance. If we do not enter a public sector reform that would lead to a reduction in spending and the elimination of deficits in the budget, then we would introduce the country into debt that would not be sustainable within the long term. For this reason, the government has launched this large project, which is called the rationalisation project and raising the efficiency of the public sector. The big project has a significant number of segments. You're talking about reducing the number of employees in administration, state and local, and that's only two out of a dozen segments. Other segments are - business of public enterprises at the central level, business of local public enterprises, then you have a health system, education system, pension system, military and police, etc. These are all segments of a public sector and we need to get into this reform, which will survive the mandate and these governments. That is why I am pleased and I think it is necessary to talk to the opposition parties as well, in order for this reform to have full support in the direction of its realization. So we have two laws that are in play. It's a law that ceilings the number of employees in the central administration, which is clearly defined there. In doing so, the central administration did not cover mainly those public funds users not in the government's jurisdiction, so all of these independent agencies elected by the Assembly, etc. They are not covered, but are covered by ministries and all of those agencies and structures that are within the structure of individual ministries. For all of them, the total number is considered fixed, which is given as a legal solution to whom it should be pursued. The other law you're asking for has a slightly different approach. The difference is that it is not a ceilinged number, but rather a relative participation of thousands of people, so it is said that this number should be, if I remember correctly, four employees per thousand. And then it's a rapper to which every municipality can determine for itself whether it has more or less. In case there's more, of course it has to be adjusted, and in case there's less, they have procedures there that are foreseen. As part of the work on these laws, people who have dealt with it, and of course the municipalities, i.e. the central administration, have a clear view of the situation in the municipality, where they will, in practice, ask local self-government for information to be delivered to them. When these data are delivered, whether it's living matter or perhaps for some reason, we've come across great disciplines in numbers that we've received from different sources. I think that's the basic reason why that number wasn't disclosed to every municipality, because then it would start bidding -- I don't have this number, I have that much. And then the main theme would take the whole course of thought away. That's why this idea is accepted, according to which the criteria are given, and then every municipality can see where it is by that criterion. Because the law itself does not impose obligations on the municipalities, but only that one criterion is set. As far as the CTU issue is concerned, I'm willing to let the minister answer, but that's a question, at least for me, a complete newspaper, and for the first time I've heard about those shoes. What shoes, I have no idea. The bikes? I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. I don't think she knows. I give her my word if she knows anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29236	Mrs. Jasna Matic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29237	Dear Mrs Djeric, honourable MPs, as the prime minister said, this is completely new information for us, and on top of that, the issue of public procurement conducted in PTT Serbia is not in our jurisdiction. Either way, we will ask your question to the competent, or to the management structure of PTT and provide you with a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29238	Mrs. Djeric has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29239	Thank you very much. I really hope that, given that this information has arrived from CTU, and you have a current strike there, you will check this information for peace in the house, so to speak. Just one more question for Mr. Prime Minister, since we have good communication today, but this is in line with some other questions. Has the government taken any official stance and published it on Mrs Doris Pak's statement, a European Parliamentarian who said that the Serbian government must co-operate with the Kosovo government?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29240	I think that our position is very well known, on many occasions our entire leadership has had the opportunity to expose it, and that view is that if Kosovo's recognition is set as a condition for Europe, then we will certainly not agree to such demands. In talks with all our European colleagues and partners and with countries, whether they have not recognised Kosovo, we are insisting that it remain on the table. So far, we have a very good vomit on the other hand and that none of those who make decisions on these issues have said the opposite of what I'm telling you. Of course, you have a parliament with 700 people, as many as it is, and you can't expect all MPs in this House to have the same opinion. Here you have also seen that, in this House, even in this reduced number of MPs present, we have different views on different issues, which I consider both good and normal. So I would not make any specific comments about that statement, except to give you an answer to that question, and that answer is that the government does not accept and will not agree to the question of Kosovo's recognition as a condition for European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29241	Thank you. Vice-President Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29242	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament (as we express everything, time goes by), I am pleased to be able to ask you today specific questions, although I do not have a very good experience in the work so far in terms of asking questions, requests for information, etc. by the Assembly, which are directed towards members of the Government. It's all more like a debate club. The ministers appear here with the prime minister, members of parliament are asking certain questions, and this ends with whether they will receive answers or not. However, I think that we should really change the whole approach to this problem a little bit, because this is the Assembly, this is parliament, and parliament as the Supreme Legislative Body has the right to request certain notifications from the executive authority through its MPs. Parliament has the right to exercise certain supervision over the implementation of laws for which the executive body is responsible. I am reporting on certain issues concerning the regulation, amendments and additions to the regulations on the protection of the part of the company, which is based on the territory of the former republics of the SFRY. I have already asked for certain notifications on these regulations, and I have specifically asked the ministries to declare whether and when they will abolish those regulations. It concerns Regulations 61/08, 109/08, 14/09/09 and is now accompanied by Regulation 79/09. Why is this regulation so important? Because in 2004, the Succession Act entered into force, as regards the assets of the former SFRJ republics. It is an international contract, which has an absolute primate compared to all laws, especially in relation to sublaws. This law, by the way, puts Annex G first, which protects all property rights of natural and legal persons that have been acquired and existed in enterprises, i.e. companies whose headquarters is located on the premises of all former SFRY republics. So it's a succession, and when it comes to Annex G, it's about reciprocity. A concrete question arises – were these regulations being discussed in the Government and has something been done to improve these regulations?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29243	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29244	I'll give a very short answer, and then I'll ask my colleague Milosavljevic to answer in more detail. What I'm trying to say is that you've made a very good conclusion that we have a conflict agreement and we also have this so-called so-called. Anex G, who defines those questions. Indeed, the question is whether the regulations can be substituted by direct application of the agreement. What we, unfortunately, have as a problem is that certain now independent states, and sometimes the former Republic of the SFRY, although it is written in some article, believe that Annex G cannot be applied directly without so-called. bilateral agreements. In other words, the application of Annex G is not directly possible, but on the basis of Annex G, bilateral agreements between the countries must be concluded and these bilateral agreements can be resuscitated by appropriate regulations. We had this group meeting a month ago, and the Croatian side, among other things, pointed out the matter. We have one number of our businesses, I don't know if individuals, who, when they look for some property in Croatia and when they turn to the courts, courts stop the proceedings and say -- cannot be resolved because of the lack of a bilateral agreement, so we had a similar situation based on reciprocity. For this reason, the government has launched an initiative for these bilateral agreements to be concluded and is currently working on some draft of the bilateral agreement. In the coming period, we will contact our colleagues from Croatia with the desire to sign this bilateral agreement and then we will have a clear and unequivocal possibility of applying this famous Annex G, which treats property rights. Now I'd like to ask Sloba to say something, if he wants to, in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29245	Mr. Free Milosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29246	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Popovic, this is the current issue and what practically dates back to the early 1990s. What the state of Serbia has been doing since the very beginning, and here to this day, I would say, successfully, is that the property of a company whose headquarters is outside the Republic of Serbia, and they have property on the territory of Serbia, exclusively gave to the use of enterprises (social and private) until the end of the final succession. In other words, the property of these companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is almost entirely, perhaps there is an individual example, preserved, and it is possible that, after the total succession has been completed, the owners are returned to management unless they have, in the meantime, sold the property to some commercial contracts or otherwise alienated or placed it outside their property. This, unfortunately, is not the case, above all in Croatia, has some examples in Slovenia, and this is the problem that we are looking at today. We have extended over the past few months to the three months of the regulation that you are talking about, above all, with the aim of dealing with state bodies dealing with conflict issues to give additional time to try to solve the problem together with all former republics. What is the characteristic of the last regulation, which, if I am not mistaken, was extended to another three months ago, is that it was left until the end of the year to register property owners in Serbia's territory, whose seat is for example. in Slovenia, Croatia or in other former Yugoslav republics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Ministry of Trade, so that the property, which is still disputed, is included in the final negotiations and the problem can be resolved in general. I'm optimistic. I believe that, for example, in the first few months of next year, this problem will be solved. Once again, from the Serbian state's point of view, everything has been done to protect the property and make it available to owners when it is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29247	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29248	I am partially satisfied with the answer, however, it does not give an essential way to solve the problem of at least 30 domestic legal entities that have bought, specifically from "Borov", whose headquarters is, we know, located in the territory of Croatia, real estate, business premises, and they and their legal jobs cannot end up being realized, cannot take these properties to use. So they're limited as far as their property rights are concerned, because they can't afford their real estate. These contracts were concluded before this Regulation was adopted, which was adopted by the technical government, which was not even competent and authorised to adopt the regulations because it was the government in resignation in 2008. This Regulation literally, with its Article 2a, fully amended the essence of the regulation which sought to protect the assets of those undertakings, which are based on the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. Any regulation that followed that regulation in June 2008 only continued that practice of restricting the right to use and the property rights of those domestic legal entities which had acquired property and property before the adoption and, in my opinion, the illegal regulation. So, what's going on here? We have legal persons who are being held in public books as owners of these properties, however, cannot dispose of these properties and wait for some process of reciprocity to be reportedly completed. Reciprocity is mentioned in Annex G only in terms of the right to access courts. So that's the only thing that exhausts this reciprocity, and it doesn't get in the way of some property rights that are very clearly and transparently regulated by this Annex G and these rights are unequivocally protected. That is why this is the problem, which in our continuity is delayed by the government, by the executive authority, to implement something that has been established by an international contract, or by a law that has primate in relation to domestic legislation, and I underline, and by reference to these sublaws. All of this could cause a lot of damage. I underline, the regulation is even retroactively applied to these legal matters, which is completely illegal and unconstitutional. What can these legal faces expect for the future, when some deadlines are extended every three months, and they suffer damage that they cannot use their property? They can break contracts, it is expected unless the government solves a burning problem. And then what? They can sue this country for damages. As we are talking today, the big crisis, the recession, the need to save, the dismissal of the republican administration, etc., by the losers buying 'Information' for three million euros, and the government doesn't put it on its website, it doesn't say transparently, it doesn't say why one loser gave three million euros for 'Informatics'. So, shut up, like for that Jugorosgas. So, in continuity, there are some things done by the government that literally do nothing but damage. And who's gonna end up paying for it again? They'll pay the man who's filling the budget, the citizens of this country. Because there is no one else, only one who is capable and can create some new value that will be produced through that budget. So again, I ask the question - whether the Government is considering, when it adopts regulations, that the regulation cannot be, such as this, contrary to the Law on property relations, contrary to the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations, contrary to an international treaty ratified by this assembly, contrary to the Constitution. (President: Time. ) Meanwhile, an assessment of the constitutionality and the Constitutional Court has been launched and entered into the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of these regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29249	The word is Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29250	I'd say something about constitutionality or unconstitutionality. If the procedure is in place, that's very good. And I'd like to know if those regulations are constitutional or not. We'd be happy to cut them off if it turns out they're not. I have already said that the issue of direct application of Annex G is not a matter that the Republic of Serbia would not go to, but our partner, the Republic of Croatia, is not judging by Annex G and is seeking a bilateral agreement. We will make a bilateral agreement, we will make a proposal, after they have applied it to Slovenia. They made a bilateral agreement with Slovenia and apply it. Now we'll go proactively, make an agreement with us, and I believe we'll solve these problems. On the other hand, since the issue of "Informatics" is being restarted (you asked me this morning, I didn't know I was giving you an answer), I took the opportunity to get an explanation of why "Informatics" was significant. If you'll excuse me, I'll also hand it over to you, since that argument was given to the government, when the government decided to give consent to the "Serbiagas" for one such activity that he considered luxuriant work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29251	Thank you. Mrs Popovic has a word to plead for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29252	I totally understood what you were saying about Annex G and, apparently, we have some conflicting opinions about the application of that annex. As a lawyer, I think there's a different way to interpret the provisions of that annex. However, the burning issue remains open – what about those domestic legal entities who bought from Borelia business premises, real estate, regularly certified contracts, regularly paid taxes, regularly entered their property rights into public books in 2004, so for four years before the adoption of these amendments to the regulation. What's going to happen to those domestic legal people? There is no reciprocity here, because there is no international element. What do people do? So should they resort to the termination of the contract, to seek state aid, in the sense that the state will have to bear, after all, the ultimate consequences of paying for damages, or to remain in those contracts and expect the Government to make a concrete contribution to solving these problems? Is there any way that the Government, in terms of these property rights, can make any decision that will be valid and that can be applied? Because according to existing positive regulations, this should also be applied by courts and monasteries, however, there is some stalemate that prevents the use and availability of property. So the specific question is, are you going to do something about these people that rule out reciprocity?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29253	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29254	I'm not so sure we don't agree here. I'd also like Annex G to be applied directly. However, I am telling you that Croatian courts do not apply it. You have the following situation in Croatia: the property of Serbian legal entities there is a thousand and ninety-nine years in books re-registered to a fund, so it is re-registered to the state of Croatia. And then this fund started, and in most cases, it sold it, in privatisation, and now, when the owner calls to get to that property and sues, then the court says -- sorry, we're not gonna end the case because Annex G can't be applied directly. So what does the state of Serbia do now? She says - we're looking for reciprocity. And it was this government that launched an intensification of the work on the development of the bilateral agreement. If you ask me what the government is going to do, it will intensify this agreement with a desire to sign it and allow Annex G to be applied. As for your specific question about the property of this particular company, I cannot answer that, but I have in my office an adviser who deals with property issues and works on the issue of succession. I wrote his name on this information paper. Here you go, so you can talk to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29255	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29256	You've given the Prime Minister the right to report for the third time, but it doesn't matter. I'll be able to ask my question. Mr Cvetkovic, if you had answered my question in due time about how many privatisation contracts have been terminated, Mrs Djeric might now be asking for information only for a period from delivering questions to a new one, and that would not be a question as if we were asking it for the first time. I personally handed you the BD "Agro" case with accounting documentation, to examine it, but there's no question about it. But I will address Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic and comment on her statement yesterday that caused very interesting reactions. Many welcomed it with interesting comments, the type that it may be even politically naive, and I want, on behalf of the profession, on behalf of the Serbian citizens, to give you credit for professional and personal courage for making such a statement. I don't feel very happy about it at all, because there's a lot of what I've been saying in this house myself, but I really call on those economists who are trying to support their authority the colourful lies of politicians who think that this people are at such a mental level or in such a poverty that they're willing to believe in all sorts of nonsense, to realize that you're someone who's had the courage to say that he's been in control of documents and come to the data that puts new tasks ahead of us all. But my question is this. We passed a new Budgetary System Act and in Section 5, you have a precise definition, which is yours, who are the users of public funds. I'm interested, because I'm talking about those agencies that are not covered, the Directorate and everything else, that under these public means we're involving all those who have 50% of the state's capital or more than 50% of the capital there's a state, in a way. If there is a problem of legal solutions that bring this kind of own income into collage with this member, i.e. make it impossible for you or the Assembly to put into the budget everything that is by nature public money that needs to be controlled, deliver that law to us on a change. We have 60 agenda points in this session. (President: Time. They don’t matter how much money you put under control. What are you going to do to apply what you said as money control?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29257	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29258	It was a roundtable that talked about the methodological problems of budgeting. On that round table, I said what's certainly true, which is that the budget isn't complete, that there are things that aren't covered by the budget that should, which also doesn't mean that it's not done by law. What's the Treasury doing now? The Ministry of Finance of all users (direct and indirect) of budget funds and social security funds, above all I mean health insurance, is looking for a precise plan so-called. Your own income. There are two categories of own income. You're selling goods or services, and it's nothing unusual. You have the freedom to use it, but it's important to know how much it is. There's a so-called. the means of use. It's also nothing unusual, it's just a matter of measures. At this point, a public register is being established, i.e. a register of all these different types of income - dedicated, own, etc. It's almost a hundred different regulations that regulate this purpose. So it's all under the law, it's just out of the budget process. What's the first step? The first step is for all of them to be introduced into a consolidated vault account. Why? Because, in order for the vault to manage the money better, especially in a time of need, such as this time, it may temporarily be for one who has a surplus to transfer to one who has a shortfall without being essentially in debt. By including all those founded by the state, where the state has a majority, including public enterprises that are a really long story, the capacity to manage public finances would be increased. I can't say that it's possible to do this in this budget, and it won't be, but at least this budget will give the right measure of what's public money. In this budget, we will be aware of how much EU funds we receive as so-called. Help (grant). There are also various bilateral agreements between the Republic of Serbia and different countries and donors. And on that basis, the funds come into the budget. And you'll know that. It'll be an addition to the budget. It won't, so the budget will be made under that procedure that I'd like to make. I hope to have time, at least a year, for the 2011 budget to be according to the rules of the profession. Also, this budget will see exactly how much the government's revenues are lost by various tax exemptions. It'll look like annexes. The process of bringing these different budget users into a single consolidated vault account begins and we slowly increase cash management capacity and debt management. The process has begun. He can't be finished fast, overnight. There are many direct and indirect users, nine thousand. You can't drag it into the system overnight. But the process has begun, and at least we'll all have a sense of how much money in essence the state has and how it manages.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29259	Mr. Cvetkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29260	I'd just like to say a few sentences. Since we're a country in transition and our idea is, it seems to me, this morning and I said, every year next year it's better than this one, and the second one behind the next is even better, it's a very interesting question of budget transparency and how this transparency grows every year, and whether it grows, let's see, so I thought of one thing, I think it's a very good thing. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, I'll hire people to do a review of what the 2009 budget looked like, what it looked like for 1999 and what it looked like in 1989, and then we can compare which of them and whether there was transparency and how much earlier budgets were involved, both in the part of this which is now, as well in this part of which, among other things, you point out correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29261	Mrs. Tabakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29262	Mr. Cvetkovic, I really think it's a necessary job and something that can't really wait. You may not personally remember, but in this room there are many MPs who in 2001, in a hurry to adopt the mass of the law, passed a law that brought a lot of evil and served as an example of reputation, that at one point the united accounts of various users and public incomes that were coming together, actually spilling back into lateral gloves, where the state no longer has control. It's a law that envisioned privatisation, International Treaty No. 8 of September 2001, where for six million dollars the privatisation method was drawn, the Privatisation Agency (and you know it, you were the director), which was completely removed from the jurisdiction of the state, and got a job selling the most valuable state resources. So, based on budget money, she got a job that now Mrs Dragutinovic defines as being absolutely correct. The state gave them the basis to raise funds, to honor the Privatisation Agency, which, if you excuse the expression, has squandered billions of wealth from all of us and remained with 760 million, is an example of registration, the illegal behavior of the countless agencies that we have on the list today, and I expect you to make a contribution to the list to which you will refer, now that you are trying 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 3,000 or 5,000 probably the lowest personnel in the state administration to start firing, and thanks to this and this agency, thousands of people are out of work, with no perspective. We've been deindustrizing ourselves just because someone didn't have time to look at this quickly or possibly owed it, and that's the International Bank's Trust Fund for Reconstruction and Development, not to refuse such a law, but to apply it, whose application for the last nine years has led to devastating results for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29263	Mr. Cvetkovic, we have another minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29264	Okay, then I'll say it in two sentences. Madam Members of Parliament, when the Privatisation Agency was formed, it was set up as a full budget user and was financed from the budget, and all the funds it collected had been entered into the budget. Later, some other governments introduced a system of percentages and a system under which it is financed from privatisation revenues. At the time I ran it, it wasn't the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-29-0.u29265	Since it's 19.00 hours, I'm finishing today's work. I thank everyone for their participation, especially the prime minister, the ministers and, of course, the honourable MPs who took active participation. Tomorrow, 11:00 p.m., we begin the third session of the Second Regular Session. Thank you.
