ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. I'm reporting for Mrs. Hope Kolundji's presentation yesterday at the end of the session. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. I don't believe there's any MP who doesn't know what's going on here. I'm reporting because you've been telling the truth all along, trying to deceive Serbian citizens about a delegation that was supposed to travel to Strasbourg, to the Council of Europe Assembly. That's what you've been trying to do for days. I can't say exactly what the motives are. There's more motive. Which of them prevailed, I don't know. I don't know if it's Hope Kolundzhija's statement that she's going to argue that the representatives of the SRS don't go to Strasbourg, so since they figured out what a nonsension it is, then they decided to still meet Hope Kolundzhija's wish and that's why the entire delegation didn't go. For the sake of the truth, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must tell you that you have humiliated, above all, the Assembly and Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, because you have completely disaved her. You threw what she did under her feet and put Serbia in the position it was in, that yesterday, when the Political Committee was predact of the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, there were no representatives of the Serbian delegation. Otherwise, to remind us, on January 16th, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic sent a letter to the Council of Europe stating the members of the delegation and the deputy members of the delegation and asking, since the proposal is under way, for these MPs to be cleared of the mandates in the Council of Europe. There's no dilemma. In her oral conversation with Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, she also told me. She said we'd solve this issue, but that the delegation was going to Strasbourg, and when the delegation came back, then we'd try to solve this problem. Then we get into this situation... I know I'm running out of time. Do I have to come down and answer it again? I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13254	There is no violation of Article 101 which prescribes the right to replication, Article 103, which obliges MPs to observe the agenda and Article 104, since the MP did not violate Article 104 in its presentation. Your time has not run out, this syntagma will not be used in this congregation. Please, the word is Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13255	I'm reporting to the same members. So on January 16th, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic sent a letter to the Council of Europe, and at the Council of Europe, whether she would accept the argument of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or not. Let's put that aside now. But on January 23rd, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Micunovic, sent a letter to the president of the Assembly, saying "The current delegation no longer has legitimacy". Why isn't there any legitimacy? He has legitimacy and legality. Is the President of the Assembly illegal? Did he not have the right to propose to the Serbian Assembly a delegation by letter to the Council of Europe? No Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's legality and legitimacy, and Micunovic had when he set the delegation himself. What is this concept of democracy, morals and everything else? Be careful, he says, "because he does not respect the corresponding changes in the membership of the National Assembly after the election, which is explicitly contrary to Article 6(2). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Europe, and in addition, some members of the delegation became ministers in the meantime, and such a delegation, at the beginning of the plenary session of the Council of Europe, would likely be denied the verification of the mandate." Gentlemen, in a letter sent by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, there is no Ivica Dacic, nor does Miloljub Albianic, the famous Mica. Now, can you explain to me that this delegation is not legitimate and legal? Yes, it is. Dragoljub Micunovic has deceived the speaker of the assembly and this has led to some justification for the non-department of our delegation. Meanwhile, the Council of Europe confirmed its mandates to lawmakers whose names it was named in a letter from the president of the Serbian Parliament. That is what Serbia's biggest problem – the terror of DS, what Micun said – is an important number. If you have 126, it's all over for you, and the lie is true, dictatorship is democracy, crime is the satisfaction of your justice. You've passed Orvell. So I warn Serbian citizens that some things must be understood in time, because as soon as possible Where does a bunny drink water? [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Time.]] He taught a man to tap, learn -- "time," and now let's see if he's made any further progress. You have to skip that obstacle and now you have to show where the rabbit drinks water, so we can talk. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the sooner you understand and the sooner the citizens of Serbia understand, the better it will be for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. Thank you and forgive the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13256	There is no breach of Articles 101, 103 and 104, nor does there be grounds to justify it. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has reported a desire to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and is given the floor under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13257	Mr. Todorovic, I carefully followed your performance on TV B92 this morning, when you tried to get Mrs. Kolundzija, counting on it to be 9 a.m., to get some sleep and that the morning was smarter than the evening, explain what we were explaining all day yesterday. But no, she stayed with that idea of hers, with what she thinks she is. However. It's not. Mr. Todorovic, let me proceed with this, in favour of your claim. Please allow me to be quiet. What? Because you're constantly distracting him from some of your incursions and what's inappropriate for a member of the parliamentary group, who, after one day, or 24 hours, tells the same story, which has nothing to do with reality. The letter you're talking about, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, by Nada Kolundžija, Boris Tadic, or I don't know who, was directed by Dragoljub Micunovic on January 23rd, and a document by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was printed on January 24th, which Mr Todorovic spoke of, which includes who are the members and deputies of the delegation. Mrs. Kolundzija, and that some mirage happened, but you told Mr. Todorovic this morning, although he explained to you that you could do whatever you wanted if you were 126 and that's exactly the point. I followed closely what he was saying, and you, too, the point is that you want to revote the SRS. Right? Is that a fact? It was your idea, and that's why you didn't let our delegation go, that's true, this morning you admitted to Mr. Todorovic and the journalist on TV B92, that's why the Democratic Party's goal, not to respect the state of the National Assembly, to respect Article 239. The Rules of Procedure, which is why I am reporting, Mrs. Komic, his position 2 but because Nada Kolundžija says – we want to outvote the radicals. You can do whatever you want. When some earlier years, Mr Krasic, who was then an MP in the council, was the speaker of the assembly, said that if Tuesday, he could put it to the vote that Thursday, that he could vote that the country is fourth, that he could vote anything. You're acting the same now. You're bringing us back 15, 20 years, just because you don't like the position of the SRS, which is the only legitimate, that the SRS has 78 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not 60, as you claim, and that we won't allow that on the basis of some quota, counting on some phantom, non-existent party in the Assembly, you're counting on these people to be representatives in international organisations. Therefore, Mrs Kolundžija, you are Dragoljub Micunović, I end up, Mrs Komic, soon, in a situation that needs to write this memo quickly, which we have now told him at the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because at one point, on Friday, you said, when Mrs Pop-Lazic and my little one were at Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, even though you knew that tickets were purchased... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. We are now going to look for a report on how the Assembly went, and for cancelling plane tickets and hotels; we were paying for your responsibility. As we pay these fines that yesterday, out of the sleeve and randomly, were pronounced by Mrs. Comic, I suggest, Mrs. Kolundzija, that you pay for everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13258	People's MPs, please take your exposure to the summit with the provisions of Article 104...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13259	... What's going to the Assembly for the airline tickets and the hotel, a few thousand euros to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13260	... The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and give the style of your exposure to the facts. No infringement of Article 239(2) and today's agenda item has been prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for your claim that you have applied for membership in delegations for parliamentary institutions on the grounds that the SRS has 78 MPs, that is not true. The material submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group to the secretary, i.e. part of the material of the agenda item, is proportional to the number of 59 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's part of the material. The amendment, submitted by the National Assembly President, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, made in one name, is the name of the MP Igor Bečić, was made because the MP changed the parliamentary group and remained in the procedure as a proposal submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, on the basis of the agreement on a proportional division, and on the basis of which the SRS parliamentary group, as your proposal, has 59 MPs at that time. There's no damage to Article 239. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104 because the dignity of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly has been severely injured. Mrs. Komic, what you just said can only qualify as true or false and I will give you a chance to prove it's true. Start with Tomislav Nikolic, and in turn, to all these pubs, let them come to the pay phone and say they are members of the SRS. We'll accept that. If they don't, then you deceive Serbia, deceive Serbian citizens. How can Tomislav Nikolic be in Strasbourg, in the Council of Europe, to send a memo to the president of the Assembly, where it says – SNS, recasts and to write SRS? Is there any chance that you can understand how to reach those organs that serve to process information, to reach a conclusion and say – this is white, this is black, this is true, this is a lie? I know you need him, it's not a dispute, but don't deceive Serbian citizens like this. There's nothing normal you can do. You claim you can't finish the job because of the obstruction of the SRS. That's not true. Just take it and see how many laws have been passed in this congregation. Since 2001, we have not voted for a single law, and all these laws have been passed, because you have a majority. It's you who let something pass or not pass. What's the problem here? The problem with you is, first of all, in the DS, the internal problems of the DS and the problems within the coalition that you solve in a way that is generally known, by trying to blame it on someone else. Who's the simplest? The SRS. You cheat on Serbian citizens all the time, with the support of the media, who, like parrots in a pacian school, repeat all that, but there are some who don't understand it, because they didn't come up that stairs because they don't know where the rabbit drinks water. How does he understand parrots in a duck school? Therefore, to be clear, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, the sooner you realize that you will not solve your problems by transferring them to the Serbian Parliament, we will be in a position for this parliament to work in accordance with the tasks it has, to pass laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13262	National MP, by looking at the stenogram, you will be able to see that, when I said there was no harm to Article 104 and that the lie was made, I was not talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By its own free will, the SRS Parliamentary Group, taking part in the agreement on the composition of delegations, gave the number of SRS MPs, as a material for this point, on the basis of the number of 59 MPs of the SRS Group. The material was handed over to the president of the National Assembly and was handed over before MP Igor Becic changed the parliamentary group. This was the reason for the correction that the National Assembly President, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, had to endure, since you did not stand behind the names of the MP who changed the parliamentary group, but the SRS MP group, I said in a previous explanation, submitted what number and who the MPs he wanted to have in the delegations, on the basis of their will to claim that the SRS parliamentary group had at that time 59, or 57 MPs. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I need to introduce the citizens to the fact that she was in effect yesterday during the afternoon debate. I appeal to the dignity of the National Assembly, for the reason that the chairman, in the afternoon part, gave me a warning about banging on a bench in some case, which is absolutely false, a false fact, because there is no video-recording with such a finding. I offer you openly, if you find the video that recorded me hitting some class about the bench, I am prepared to return the mandate to the SRS, as an honorary Serb and member of the SRS. If you do not find this video, I ask you, Madam Chairman, to resign as Vice President of the Assembly. So some things are absolutely clear. Yesterday, in the afternoon, the camera didn't record in the O.R. how the MPs behave, it was directed at you, and you used that moment very well to make as many warnings as possible to the MPs of the SRS. This time I tell you that the ways I will endure are to show my kind of protest, legal and legitimate. I can't light up the assembly. I can't steal my mandate. I can't beat someone up on the street. I can't vote. I can't do anything else about what your systems are to punish or prove democracy. I can go out for this pay phone and give you a concrete example and prove you're wrong. If it is determined that it is, the promise I made from this payphone will be fulfilled, because in my left hand I had the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in the right-hand Rules of Procedure that I wanted to call upon, I would draw your attention to the fact that the paramilitary formations that rule in Kosovo are hair with the provisions of Article 55. The Constitution. That's funny to some, and because I was worried about the Serbs at KIM, you gave me a warning. That's why I'm protesting this way, no matter how funny it is for you on the left-hand side of the O.R. Once again, I'm warning you to find that audio recording and solve this dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13264	National MP, the notice shall be made by the chairperson, whoever is or shall be the chairman, and on the basis of Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in one of the cases for which the chairman estimates that he has performed. You've been banging inventory cases, and by doing that, you've disrupted the speaker, which is something that's been tolerated for three months. In those three months, I was sitting next to the secretary of the National Assembly or the chair and, together with Vice President Nikola Novakovic, I saw what it looks like when one of the MPs, hitting an inventory case, violates Article 104, humiliates the National Assembly, humiliates all of us and calls it a political stance. So the right of the chairman represents two things that can be called discretionary rights. The first is to give the right to a replica. The right to replica is not given in itself to the Rules of Procedure, but the chairman decides whether the MP seeking the right to reply has the right to do so or not. The second is the pronunciation of measures, and that is the greatest possible responsibility any chairman in any national assembly has, in any parliament. It represents the last, if you ask me personally, the most unpopular and unpopular means anyone can use to create conditions for working at the National Assembly session. For three months, a number of MPs consider hitting cases of inventory the way they are allowed, a way only allowed to express political protest. It's not. This is a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and whenever I see that any MP from any member of the Assembly clearly violates Article 104, a warning measure will be given to him. I repeat, for me personally, the most unpopular and unnecessarily unnecessary measure in every parliament is that, but it is obviously necessary. Otherwise, you cannot consistently call it a breach of the Rules of Procedure, precisely because of the discretionary right and obligation of the chairman to impose measures. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13265	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 5. A constitution guaranteeing the role of parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens, as well as in accordance with Article 21. The Constitution, which prohibits any discrimination, either directly or indirectly, on any basis, or on the basis of political or other convictions, as well as in accordance with the Recommendation of the Council of Europe R97/20, which regulates and guarantees freedom of expression. All these rights are guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950 and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of 1966. So I'm interested in whether these human rights apply without distinction and without exceptions in our country and in our society? If so, then I ask the competent authorities to notify, but also to protect the people of this country, for the assault of the acute political extremists who falsely accuse people without evidence. A concrete cause for the protection of MPs and of me personally from charges without evidence by the afflicted political extremists is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13266	National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). National MP Milan Avramovic throws away, and the answer is - MP, when the MP gets a word with a silent response and the use of the Rules of Procedure, art. 225 and 226, then the chairman, the chairman, does not give an answer, but the MP himself says who he wants a notice from. Please, first of all, do not throw away and do not violate the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Secondly, if you need guidance on the use of the Rules of Procedure and on the use of all your rights, please contact the National Assembly’s professional services. Excuse me, MP, for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13267	I answered because I believe that the chairman, both of whom, for days, have been in constant violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of Articles 27, 104 and 105. The violation is seen in the unfair treatment of the MPs, in various arches. Example one. Last night, 13 SRS MPs were punished by a warning, explaining that the benching had hindered Mr Tomislav Nikolic's exposure. I don't want to go into the justification of that punishment at all, even though I have seen that some of the people's MPs who haven't been beaten have been punished. The problem is that the chairman of the days before that they had failed to sanction Tomislav Nikolic's behaviour, to sanction the violations of the Rules of Procedure that were much worse than banging on the benches. The last case happened on Thursday. On Thursday, from this pay phone, Mr Tomislav Nikolic called the MPs of the SRS the maniacs, "I thought the MPs were sitting here, not the maniacs." That insult went without a single warning, let alone warnings. I think the chairman, both of them, doesn't consider the MPs of the SRS to be maniacs. An example of another, twenty days ago, there was an incident here whose actors were Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. Both were punished by caution, with the explanation that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was pulling his hair off to Mr. Zivanovic, which was recorded by television cameras, and that Mr. Zivanovic was throwing it to Mr. Nikolic. I ask the question – how can it be possible, according to the Rules of Procedure or by any criteria, to equate verbal pitching, which is a regular phenomenon in this assembly, a everyday phenomenon, with a physical disorder? How is it possible to draw hair evenly with a pencil on the bench or with the kidnapping of 21 MPs, or with the theft of 160 documents of SRS MPs, 160 official documents, with stealing, ending the electoral will of Serbian citizens? That's two incompatible things. I remind Serbian citizens that in this assembly in the last two or three months we are expressing a symbolic protest over the fact that heavy theft, heavy fraud, and the SRS's 20 parliamentary mandates and majority, with the help of the chairman, the National Assembly president and vice president of the National Assembly, are doing everything possible to legalise this theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13268	National MP, hitting objects on the bench isn't symbolic. Hitting bench objects is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the obstruction of the normal work of the National Assembly. All those who chaired the sessions, applying Article 27, did was provide normal working conditions. What you must understand is that what you call a symbolic gesture is a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and the humiliation of this institution in general, and that has nothing to do with your political attitude. I'm asking you to understand that, not to mention the Latin proverbs about it. So the same rules apply to all of us together. I was not present at the session when MPs were called offensive names, you can only trust me to respond, because all MPs have equal rights and the exact same status when the chairman is concerned. The MPs say it should not depend on the chairman. That's right. That's why I advocate strict application of the business provisions. Our mutual arrangements, both silent and political, mean that the presidents of the parliamentary groups give instructions to all the chairmans to tolerate the application of the article. 225 and 226, so we don't give any warning of the obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, so let's let go of this breach of procedure, that breach of procedure. So, what Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic and I agree to in Yotu, is – all chairing the same, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow it to be strictly applied by all members, and for the benefit of our joint house, where we sit and work. The MP says the MPs of the SRS have been discriminated against. That would be very hard to prove. MP Momir Markovic. He wants to speak to the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13269	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been in the National Assembly for several days now in committees, one torture and a rude violation of members of 104, or dignity and the National Assembly and the Republic of Serbia. Today, at 11 o'clock, we held a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was scheduled by the president, and at that session again expressed the independence of the Committee and DS president. Let me get you back to the beginning of the story. On Friday, the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, said that we do not have a delegation because Mr. Micunovic, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has analysed the situation and came to the conclusion that we cannot send a delegation to Strasbourg, a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because the mandates of the previous delegation are not valid. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said that if the delegation went into the composition of which Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in a letter, informed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, would be returned and her mandates would not be verified. It is an obligation that six months from the constitution of the National Assembly of delegations be established. Why hasn't it been done so far? Why do we always bring the National Assembly, the MPs of the National Assembly, into teatime, to decide at the last minute? So we decided on the budget, so we decided on the Passports Act, so we decided on a lot of things, because if we didn't, then either the laws would cease to apply, or the citizens of Serbia would be brought into an unexplainable situation. And this time that game was in effect. A session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe began yesterday. Our delegation is gone, thanks to the very will of the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Today, that is, yesterday and today, the draft resolution on Kosovo and Metohija is being discussed, the most important issue for the state of Serbia and the parliament. As for Mr. Micunovic, he showed hiss at the previous session. You were all witnesses, you heard... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, but I'm calling back to you because I didn't finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13270	National MP, you are obliged to answer the question of the chairman - which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I warn you, this is the basis for giving notice under Article 106. You didn't say 104, you said you'd call again. The way you treat the National Assembly and the MPs is a very harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, to a level that will not be tolerated. I'm really warning you next time. National MP Nikola Žutić. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets a word on the basis of article 100. Article 1
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13271	Gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. The government insults the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs, since it often does not answer parliamentary questions, enquiries, and interpretations. The periods of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia should be remembered, when prominent MPs in parliament simply lined up ministers who patiently responded to parliamentary questions and interpretations. I have asked a number of very important parliamentary questions, to which I have not received an answer. These are the issues of the revision of the violently imposed state border towards Croatia, in the Serbian Podunavlje, i.e. in the Sremo-Slavonian part. In terms of borders, we need to be a role model for Slovenia, which has raised an iron curtain towards Croatia, making it impossible to join the European Union until the time of the border review and the extension of the Slovenian sea belt. I asked the question of raising and implementing a lawsuit against Croatia for the crimes of genocide against Serbs during the 20th century. True, Minister Jeremic pompously announced the indictment against Croatia for crimes 1941, 1951, 1995, but it was more than just a political maneuver, shooting blank. That indictment seems to have simply been forgotten by the state. I also asked the issue of the Adriatic Sucession, or at least some Serbian exit to the Adriatic. I also asked the same question at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly during 2007 and 2008. I pointed out the following Serbian arguments. In order for the Mediterranean to remain a zone of peace, security, an uninterrupted co-operation zone, historical injustices that, apart from international law, are the rightful force, made to certain Mediterranean peoples, especially the Palestinian and Serbian peoples. I further pointed out that the main geopolitical problem of the Adriatic countries is the violent capture of the Yugoslav part of the Adriatic Sea from only one administrative unit of SFRY, which is Croatia. I asked for defeat and the results of the force policy against Serbs to be reviewed in accordance with international law. As is known, the unresolved Adriatic issue today has been repeatedly pointed out by Slovenia, Italy, lately in BiH, but Croatia, modesty is unheard of, Croatian politicians are not enough that the state, through the will of international factors, has taken over the entire coast, but is asking Croatia to declare its protected belt, so that more Italian, Slovenian and other fishermen would not rob Croatian fish, or fishing zone. At the Mediterranean Assembly, the Serbian delegation managed to impose a Kosovo issue, in addition to the most prominent Palestinian issue, as a key Mediterranean problem. The cosmetic issue will be discussed in two of the three existing committees, the Committee on Policy and Security and the Committee on Dialogue between Civilians and Religions and Human Rights. The Migration Task Force draws attention to the category of internal forced migration. Information on the exorcision of Serbs from Croatia and Republika Srpska and from Cosmeta has been provided. To remind me, the SRS had two representatives at the Mediterranean Assembly, the second representative was SRS official Nemanja Sarovic. The two of us have also forced Serbian national topics, acute national and state issues previously mentioned, but at this time, the SRS is being disgracedly taken away from the delegate position... (President: Time. I've got half a minute left, so I don't answer again, let me finish. I must point out that I also had good co-operation with Maja Lausevic of the DS, although we are from two politically ideologically opposed parliamentary formations. In 2008, the two of us were the only members of the delegation from the previous assembly. He feared then that Serbia would not be able to participate in the autumn sessions, due to delays in forming a new Mediterranean Assembly delegation. Fortunately, meetings of the Mediterranean Assembly have blended in with the semi-annual legitimacy of our delegation from the former assembly. I expect the government to be serious, however, and to start answering parliamentary questions. I expect answers to my three parliamentary questions I asked more than three months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13272	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13273	Mrs. Komic, remember, article 27. Rules of Procedure, so I don't have to talk about it again in the end. I think that you are very wrong and tendingly miscare for the work of the National Assembly sessions and that it is also the conclusion that you are misapplying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me explain it, more for the public, and you here are all well known. Specially for this occasion, I have increased the text of Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and emboldened part of the text in item 2 – the proportional representation of political parties and gender representation. I chose a large font, for the simple reason that it doesn't take logically, neither grammatically, nor any other interpretation, it just takes here to have a basic vision that this can be read. Of course, I have also prepared the National Assembly Decision of 13 June 2007, which is a decision to establish the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, identical to this proposal for a decision, only to draw attention to the name of the MP who is a member of a delegation is his party membership. I deliver this to Mrs. Comic, so we don't argue about this, because this is obvious. That's where it starts, and that's where the problem of today's session ends. The problem was caused by the Democratic Party, because I get the impression that this proposal came from Bodrum, or from Thessaloniki. No one has the moral right to warn me if I applaud or snap fingers, and because of this brutal theft, I have made no decision to burn the Assembly, tear down RTS and tear down Belgrade. When you issue the responsibility of whoever burned the Federal Assembly, who beat Milanovic, who destroyed Belgrade, then you have the moral right to warn me if I express my dissatisfaction with the theft that is happening here, where theft is forbidden. Please, you have 21 persons on your site that are members of the SRS still, and they do everything they can to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Can a member of the SRS do that? You want to save yourself by a simple prank, that the DSS-NS say - our quota is satisfied, we will vote in favour of this motion decision. That's how you want to prejudge the issue of criminal responsibility for stealing resignations, a statement... (President: Time. I'll get back to you. I'm sorry I've been so convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13274	Convincing may be, but the 239 is not broken. Following obligations under Article 239, the president of the National Assembly consulted the presidents of the parliamentary groups on a proposal to draw up a delegation. Your MP group, the SRS Parliamentary Group, has sufficiently put forward a proposal for its members, a proportional participation of 59, and 57 MPs of the SRS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is a fact that we all know, from the Secretary General of the National Assembly, to all of us who have received the material. By mistake, MP Igor Becic remained in the previous proposal from the SRS Parliamentary Group, on the basis of Article 239, and in agreement with the President of the National Assembly, it is binding on Article 239. The Rules of Procedure, by its correction, changed because MP Igor Becic, which allows him to change the Rules of Procedure, changed the parliamentary group. Your observation that the application of the Rules of Procedure is a matter of morality, it does not stand; the application of the Rules of Procedure is, among other things, a moral obligation and I apply it strictly, explaining what is my duty, and by Article 100(3). The MP pointed out the violation of Article 239 and was gone. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13275	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with all due respect to Mrs Comic, I think she should be in office, first of all, the speaker here, in the Assembly, when she is chairing the sessions, not as a spokesman for Mrs Kolundzija or Mr Micunovic; in that case she would give a completely different note of the atmosphere in this assembly. What I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Komic, is to answer the question asked by Mr. Dragan Todorovic. The question was, I will repeat - are Tomislav Nikolic and this other group gathered around him by members of the SRS or not? What am I asking you about? First of all, because of the Constitution, and this is Article 194(4), which says that international agreements and the accepted rules of international law are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. So, in the letter of the Council of Europe, and we have entered the Council of Europe by signing an international treaty at the time of the creation of this Council of Europe, it is clear that these people are members of the SRS. That question has to be resolved here once. I understand the situation that is insufferable to you right now, but it is unbearable to your fault, because you, in solidarity with the turkeys, since you are a pig yourself, are making a problem in this House. So, you have to set yourself up according to that and find a solution. I have a proposal on behalf of the SRS. Have the resignations for these three mandates been activated by the SRS? Are they already in front of the Administrative Board? They did. Why isn't the Management Board handling this? Is there a question in court of these other 18 terms? Yes, it is. What does that mean? This means that you too believe that the court should decide on this issue, because you are not sure that you have done the right thing by recognising that parliamentary group and their mandates. Please, until this is settled, it's logical that these people can't represent us anywhere. Once that's settled, the delegation can always change. We will always acknowledge the court's decision, even if it, in our opinion, is unfair, but the Constitution and the law must be respected, whatever subjective opinion we have on it. So that's what, by political agreement, by respecting some fundamental legal logic, can be resolved. Here, I'll return you to that main question and please, if I don't read to you, read Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of our Assembly, which will make it clear to you, position 2, whether it is political parties here, or parliamentary groups, and who has sent, formally, itself and materially, an inadequate legal act to the Council of Europe Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13276	The question you reiterated by MP Dragan Todorovic, in his case, was certainly a rhetorical question about who is a member of the party, as MP Dragan Todorovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, participated in the motion for delegations, by the percentage participation of the SRS Group 59 and 57 MPs, respectively. That's why it's a rhetorical question. I assume the president of the Parliament Group knows exactly who his party is and who his member is. The material that is before us for all nine delegations was made on the basis of the participation of the president of the SRS Parliamentary Group and the number of 59, i.e. 57 MPs, and in an explanation, I gave the case of MP Igor Bečić, who was at one point a member of the SRS parliamentary group, was a proposal from the MP's group, so that I changed the parliamentary group, became a member of the Progressive Group, thereby giving answers to questions that are indeed rhetorical when asked by the president of the parliamentary group that I agreed to tell him how many members of the parliamentary group, in order to be proportionate to this participation, to participate in the distribution of seats in delegations. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic takes precedence over the request for a word on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since she is the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13277	We didn't get along very well, Mrs. Comic. I will read the motion for a decision, related only to a delegation, let's say, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Under one, writes Suzana Grubjesic, Parliament Group G17 Plus, Gordana Comic, Parliament Group ZES, Meso Omerovic, ZES Parliamentary Group, Gordana Pop-Lazic, SRS Parliamentary Group. What does our Rules of Procedure say in Rule 239? That is why I have reminded you of the Constitution and therefore I remind you of the democratic concepts in this democratic Europe and how they experience us. So for them is an unacceptable parliamentary group. They only know the political party, the one that participated in the elections. These are the European domains of parliamentaryism, and we have made a commitment to the Constitution to respect it. Article 239 states that the proposal for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. So, we believe that, apart from Mrs. Susane Grubjesic's name, he should write a party G17 plus, next to your name, an DS MP, next to my name, an SRS MP, not an SRS MP group. Look, it may seem irrelevant to you, but it's obviously important. First, we are breaking our rules of procedure, and it is in line with both the Constitution and the international rules regarding parliamentary democracy and, ultimately, the Council of Europe Assembly, and the OSCE, and all these international institutions respect that level of parliamentary democracy, because they only know political parties, they do not know parliamentary groups. We can share here any way we want, it's our internal thing, but in the world, we're just the ones who participated in the elections, and the election was attended by SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. The fact that you had a coalition, that lost the name DS, that's your problem, but we went to the polls ourselves, and that's our mandates, 78 mandates. Not asking what will happen to them, I told you – don't give me that explanation you just gave me; we ask that, in addition to the names and last names, which party is in question. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is in accordance with the Constitution, that is what we seek, European democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13278	People's MPs, I can only repeat that the material that you have before you is the result of the consultation of the president of the parliamentary groups and the president of the National Assembly. So their joint will is, the material for decisions on parliamentary delegations in international parliamentary institutions has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, reporting on the basis of article 104. Namely, it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Yesterday, you punished 13 MPs of the SRS, including me. I'm responsibly saying, even if I was banging on the inventory of the National Assembly, you couldn't see it, because I was sitting in the direction of the speaker. Only if you didn't have the power to see through people, so you could see that I was supposed to be banging something on the table. It's not about those penalties, Mrs. Comic, it's about you trying to protect someone who's illegal in this assembly. We are the only parliament in the world where people who are not participants...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13280	National MP, every time any MP of the people says there are illegal MPs in this assembly, it is my duty to warn you that all MPs have a confirmed mandate and all the rights and obligations arising from that mandate and that there is no illegal state in this assembly. I warn you that you respect Article 104 and do not give false facts, that you do not endanger the reputation and dignity of the Assembly, which has 250 deputies who have full mandates and all the rights and obligations that arise from that mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13281	Mrs. Comic, the easiest thing to do is to put the blame and responsibility on the other person. For you, absolutely, it's the SRS. Because the budget was 47 days late, you tried to blame the SRS; for all the false pre-election promises you made to Serbian citizens, it's your fault. We know very well what you promised the citizens, what about the white Schengen list. Remember only Bozidar Djelic, who is about to take off from this pay phone – come on, come on, come on. He'd probably be adventurous somewhere along the way to some bank to sign up another tenm euros in his shares, etc. It is clear, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, which is why Tomislav Nikolic has your support. This has been proved in a vote on the seats of the courts and the prosecutions. Had they been in the Ombudsroom then, the law would have fallen to you. Not only have you deceived the citizens and made this impossible mission, that is, you are aware that it cannot work and that you need support on the side, that you have a reserve. I'm convinced, Mrs. Comic, this won't take long. You Serbian citizens are absolutely not interested. You're trying for everything and everything to blame the SRS. Look only here near us, in the Pionical Park, these tormented people, who spend a month under the clear sky, no one can speak to them. A transparent, which is visibly prominent, paints it nicely, all of it, and not only what the workers of the "Robs houses" think, but the citizens of Serbia think. It literally says this -- brothers Turks, help, you took 10%, they take our soul. Is that the attitude towards Serbian citizens, Mrs. Comic? No problem at all. Keep working like this, but I'm sure you won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13282	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. The warning measure is given to you on the basis of Article 106, and because of the violation of Article 104 - the beating of articles about the inventory of the National Assembly, the obstruction of speakers and the endangerment of the dignity of the National Assembly. I have already explained several times that the MP group, individual MPs or, at times, all MPs of the SRS felt for three months their political right to produce noise during the session of the National Assembly, hitting items of inventory, believing that such a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly could be carried out because the chairman cannot see that there was a violation and a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly. Looking at that for three months, we learned to spot and that's why you got a warning about endangering the dignity of the National Assembly. I repeat, we all have equal rights and there can be no MP, no MP group can take on more rights for themselves that the definition is respect for Article 104 and what is not. You can't beat things up about inventory while anyone's talking, you can't interfere with the speaker, whoever he is. You cannot endanger the dignity of the National Assembly by producing the bruce, because you consider it your right to do so. It's nobody's right. This is our joint house and "our joint house" means that we all respect all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure together. You don't have the right to beat up inventory cases and punishment is... (Natasa Jovanovic from town: I to you... ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic is disturbing the chairman to speak – I give you a second warning. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13283	Mrs. Komic, all you said would have been entitled to say that you did not chase into the Federal Assembly, on Television, if you hadn't been out of the Federal Assembly furniture, that you weren't taking pictures that were very valuable, that you hadn't done so much material damage without talking about the damage to this country's reputation in the world, coming in that way to power. You could have ruined whatever you wanted. You could have created a situation where some people were killed for it without answering anyone, to anyone. No court has prosecuted anyone for burning something that symbolizes the state of that time. Imagine if someone came from you now and set fire to this congregation without anyone answering. You remember when you brought us out of this House in 2001, 2002. You could have interrupted the session, continued later, for the people you gave the warning measures to, or I don't know what, to get out of the O.R. No, I don't. There, Tomislav Nikolic sat in this third row, where I sit. He was the one who broke this chair while you were taking it out. He didn't go out then, he thought it was his right to sit in that MP's bench. Who was responsible for this damage and who, in fact, caused this harm? You, as the chairman, or the one who broke it, or did this service, because they did not answer in the ministry? Please, have a little morality when you talk about something. It is assumed that a man has a constant morale, that he has the same arches for everyone, and that you agree with Tomislav Nikolic at half past six, when he estimates that he is making 'the 'time', that you are making a drama shop here – a little talk, you are going to break up a little bit, and you are going to randomly share the pucks and fines, and that your colleague, who sits next to you, warns you because she said something (she is obliged to help you in your work), it just shows how much you have nothing elementary of democracy in you. I must remind you of the first member of the Constitution, Mrs Comic, what is the Republic of Serbia – the state of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. What European principles and values do you demonstrate here, please? Don't be surprised you'll never get into that European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13284	National MPs, no breach of Article 104. The European values we apply – respect for the rules on which we are all bound. The rules on which we are required are Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 104 implies that there can be no interference with speakers, there can be no disturbance in order at the session of the National Assembly. Article 27 speaks of the presidency's obligation to ensure that there is order at the session. Three months is your political stance, the political position of the SRS parliamentary group, that at certain times, when the SRS MPs consider it appropriate, they express this political stance by hitting the inventory case. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's the humiliation of this institution. The fact that you're doing this sometimes unpunished is something that we've all witnessed in the last three months. Yesterday, we were all witnesses that measures were made for the integrity of this institution, which we belong to together, and regardless of what I know you have no hope of believing me, but because of your parliamentary group – this is not the way to express protest and must be sanctioned, not only because we are bound by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Dear Mrs. Komic, first of all, to thank you for giving me a reminder yesterday and for being in a position last night, at one of our gatherings, to make sure that people who were so far unclear who was in the coalition, thanks to you, understood that, and yesterday our activists, there were hundreds of them at that rally, said themselves – only now did we realize that 'progressors' and DS were in the coalition, regardless of the brutal attacks by Alexander Vukic on Boris Tadic. What was I going to ask, Mrs. Comic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Tadic? What happened this weekend, given that Mr Nikolic, present here, announced that he would block the Assembly, for yesterday, so he took the opportunity at 17:45, in agreement with you. He didn't come out here when we started working. Something very important happened to the opposition colleagues. Boris Tadic obviously decided not to return those three mandates either. The 18 solves the court. Why? I have received such information – if I return these three, I will not be able to take more from any of the parliamentary groups. He intended three more, from the parliamentary group in which Mrs Jankovic is located. That's where he intended three. If I get back to the SRS, I won't be able to smell what I'm missing anymore. There's a problem, Mrs. Comic. I ask Mr Tadic, is this true? I learned this from a friend from the DS. I thank you once again for punishing me yesterday, and for punishing my colleagues. Keep going, so the citizens of Serbia will be clear what lies behind your punishment and your democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13286	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13287	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm sure you'll know, about morality and banging we learned from DS. I don't know all the names you've had, but you've been banging pots and pots for five or six years to show and prove your democracy. According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 225 and 226, I want to ask, ladies and gentlemen, are those moral things that happened in the Assembly lit up, and that's when there was a vote from Thessaloniki and other places, not to say which places, from Bodrum, where you wanted to show democracy? I'm asking the Justice Department a question. I ask you a personal question – did you ask yourself or, as vice president of the assembly, did you come out here to defend Serbia's position when Canak was dating his card and his fantasy, when he wanted to show that he was the Republic of Vojvodina? You didn't come out here to explain, even though you like to explain a lot and answer questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the question you asked yourself yesterday, about the banging. You wanted to show how damaged the furniture of the Republic of Serbia was in this House. I must honestly tell you that you have to wonder how much furniture in Tomislav Nikolic's office was damaged during his orgy, when I had to guard him. In this way, he personally showed how much he appreciated his family and his wife. It's very important what we need to show and see. That's what he asked of us members of the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen, are you wondering why we should fill out these forms regarding the property owned by the MPs? Ladies and gentlemen, what property? Many of you fill in false property, for you will not show the true property, for you cannot show what you possess. Will the Administrative Board determine the truthfulness of the presentation of this property, which you are entering on these forms? Ladies and gentlemen, it's already over, but I must say, did you publicly report here in the Assembly against the greatest criminal of the Serbian people, Nobel laureate Ahtisaari, who wants to hijack the territory of the Serbian state? You didn't judge that, ladies and gentlemen, that's what you're showing. You could never tell after this pay phone if it was supposed to be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13288	The word has been made by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's not there. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13289	I am reporting for article 104 regarding the dignity of this congregation. Mrs. Comic, I would like to ask you to keep your flat-rates in the future, resulting in flat-rate penalties. I'd like it all to have a name and a last name and, if someone's being punished, to know exactly why, because, what does it mean tossing that you're saying you've tolerated him for three months? It is an expression of our dissatisfaction, but it is a mild form of dissatisfaction. If you're going to punish us for that, then what happens to applause? Would you like to punish the applause? It's also kind of a distraction. A round of applause is a pleasure. On the one hand, dissatisfaction is punishable, and pleasure is unpunished. I don't get it. I couldn't talk right now, so I hope this time won't get into your official calculation. However, I have reported on a much more serious matter, which is that the electoral will of Serbian citizens is in grave danger. The electoral will, as Mr Aleksandar Martinovic said yesterday in one big speech, which certainly deserved to enter the annals of this assembly, in which he held the right time of democracy, what he wanted in our people in vain, is the very foundation that forms the essence and essence of democracy, not the numbers, as interpreted by MPs from the Democratic Party. In fact, if people from this non-parliamentary party enter the assembly committees that travel abroad and represent our country, Serbia, what is most unacceptable in a normal democratic system will happen, and that is not to respect the democratic will of citizens. All of us here, 78 of us Serbian radicals, came in on the grounds that our house, when it comes to abroad, had only one door built by Vojislav Seselj. That door was open for the east. Now we hear, in the propaganda of this newly formed party, the vanparliamentary, which is programmed by Vukic, that their house has two doors, both in the east and in the west. We don't want anyone, under the SRS, to represent that failure abroad. It will happen in some committee in the Assembly of Europe that members of the SRS are voting on some issue for, and people from this extraparliamentary party are voting against. We automatically change the election will of citizens, we come into a situation where something is happening that is absolutely unacceptable and violates all democratic principles. In the end, I'd like to tell you one more thing, Mrs. Comic. When you talked about this banging of ours, you said you were offended, that we were humiliating you. There's been another shower, so to speak. I would really ask you to at least exempt me from the whole story. My intention was never to insult anyone in this assembly, least of all you, Mrs. Comic. I've been coming with you before in some debated situation, you've been punishing me, but I didn't have any bad feelings for you at the time. I still like you. I even think you look good when you get angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13290	He didn't see me when I got angry. People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. By looking at the stenogram, by explaining on the basis of the obligation of Article 100(3), you will find nowhere to find that I have said that you have offended or humiliated me. I was saying that pounding objects is an inventory of the humiliation of the National Assembly, because it is. It is our duty to respect a member of the Rules of Procedure who prescribes how we treat each other, so that this institution has dignity. If people were spontaneously, on their own, able to do that, we wouldn't need rules. We have rules, called Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and it is clearly prescribed what we are obliged to do during our presence in the hall, to go out for a pay phone, which are the obligations of the Members of Parliament, which are the obligations of the chairman or chairman. The way you believe you have the right to express protest with it – the pounding of inventory items, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and therefore you are given a warning measure. People's MPs Sulejman Spaho and Fired Mihajlovic earn – and sherpas? National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic says he didn't say anything about pots. I don't have an obligation to explain it to you, but there you go. The Rules of Procedure refer to the course of the National Assembly session. Each type of comparison of a violation of the rules of another kind shows that you have no arguments to defend your will to violate the Rules of Procedure. If any MP here brought a sherpa and knocked on it, he'd get the same warning. National MP Dragan Todorovic explained that beating about the sherpa is the flow of democratic protests. Please, let's get this over with. So, once again, the sentences are pronounced, I repeat, extremely unpopular and, regardless of what I know you won't believe me, that's the last measure I'd take, but you're not giving up, therefore, to disrupt the course of the session and to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Any other comparison with the violation of some other rules, some other rules, is inappropriate and, in a certain sense, is also a demeaning of the National Assembly. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13291	On the basis of Article 104, I report a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because all my speeches, all of what I said in the National Assembly, in the myths, in the pre-election campaigns, were published in the books of the SRS. To remind a gentleman who forgets that for five years I have been saying that Serbia has a door in both the east and the west, that Serbia must co-operate with both friends and those who are fewer friends, that Serbia should be an EU member, with Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. I respect your decision to completely change that policy. You never said it wasn't a good policy. That policy has brought this good election result which you now inherit as an SRS. So, you're turning to a completely different policy, you're going back to the positions that Vojislav Seselj left us in. You have the right to do all this, but why do you need membership in international organisations? Until I took charge of the party, we didn't have our deputies in international organisations. Don't forget that. If you return to isolation itself, to autism, don't even run for membership in international organisations. As for Little Wolf, he's always hanging out with big people, so he's on the right side now. I know it's hard for you not to be with you, but you didn't deserve it. There's something else I'm worried about. Fiat fires 60,000 workers. Mr. Todorovic, you'd better run politics with your head, not those pretty shoes, because the feet of politics have never led. I know that as a former athlete. So, Fiat fires 60,000 workers, Fiat, on whose promised investment, a few days before the elections, you came to power, the Fiat who, I told you from this pay phone, could raise that job to Serbia. Since there is nothing to do now, what are the consequences of those politicians who came to power on those promises? What are the consequences of Kragujevac, Šumadi and a third of Serbia? What are the consequences of the Kragujevac car factory? Will anyone ever go out for this pay phone and say, "I wanted it well, it didn't happen, I'm getting the consequences out of it, I'm not going to be a minister anymore," let's just say, "for economics and regional development. My party can no longer participate in the government, because we have deceived the citizens of Serbia," because you knew about this crisis. Not to mention the bonds, not to mention the Ministry of Defense, which doesn't tell us today how much danger it threatens to form an army in Kosovo and Metohija. Not to mention the Ministry of Energy, whose minister is completely unnecessary, because "leader" gets gas... (President: 3.30 minutes. I'm sorry, I'm done, and when the minister can't provide it. We are entering a very difficult period in Serbia's history, we are entering a parliament ruled by MPs who are not doing Serbia any good. (President: four minutes. This can't end well. This can't end well for Serbia. Not for you either. As much as I'm going through here with the insults, the humiliations, the insults, if I go too far once in a minute, I guess you can forgive me. If you've forgiven me for mistaking you for six years, forgive me and this time-over. (President: 4.30 minutes. I urge you, in Serbia's interest, to think a little about Serbia, not just the mandates that are no longer yours. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13292	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. That people's "In lies are short feet" can best be confirmed whenever Tomislav Nikolic comes out for a pay phone. Tomislav Nikolic says he led the SRS. He's not running the SNS now, he's being led by Alexander Wolfich. You can best see how Tomislav Nikolic speaks. All of this, part of it is his, and the other part, already when people care, about production, about spending funds, when comparing how many squares can be built apartments, schools, kindergartens, etc., is recommended by the NDI organisation, which advises how to deceive Serbian citizens. That's what's basic. Otherwise, in 2003, when the SRS won the largest number of votes and the largest number of MPs, to remind you, Mr Nikolic, in February, Dr Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague, you then, neither after nor before, led the SRS. What you're talking about on the road both west and east, against that road was Dr. Vojislav Seselj, trying discreetly, in a way, to return the party's policy to those flows in which the SRS was in, to return it to ideology, and that's known at the time of the 2004 elections. Those who went the other way, some came back, some didn't, and there's no dilemma. We'll just check out who ran the SRS. Mr. Vukic is in the SNS, let him publicly say that Tomislav Nikolic managed the secretary-general. You will simply check whether Tomislav Nikolic had any influence on the secretary-general and whether 10% of the work the secretary-general had in general, Tomislav Nikolic knew or had an impact on it. If that were the case, it is best to show the bills that came after the election, the bills that someone else negotiated, and when they arrived, we only grabbed the head, among them, and Tomislav Nikolic, because he had no information about it. As for ideology, Mr. Nikolic, left and right, both north and south, it's like a propeller, it looks like a ship without a stern. The party, if there's no ideology, is literally a ship without the stern, goes as the winds carry it, so it hits the rocks a little bit in the underwater rocks, and eventually it becomes a wreck. That's what's gonna happen to you. You'll become a political wreck.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13294	National MP Suleyman Spaho wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 27 and 104. At the end of yesterday's session, Mrs Comic on several occasions warned 13 Serbian radicals, and my little one included in the 13. Apparently, she saw someone hit the assembly inventory and interfere with Tomislav Nikolic, a DS pet and Mr Tadic. Mr. Nikolic didn't belong here, but thanks to you and DS, he's here because you need him right now. What you started to punish us for, Madam Vice President, is the course of the session that took place last night. All opposition MPs criticised Mr Micunovic for his behaviour and his will, for sending a letter to the assembly's president for a delegation, but a list of those who would make up the delegation was sent. That's why you've shifted your attention, by punishing an SRS MP, to distract you from the situation you've been talking about all along in this assembly. Mrs. Komic, I think you are pleased and that in all ways you are trying to punish all the radicals, to prevent you from doing so rather than having a delegation that was supposed to go to Strasbourg already be there and solves what is the current issue, i.e. Kosovo and everything that is happening right now in Serbia. You of the DS have reportedly given a lot of money for democracy, so, even as the distinguished colleagues have said, there have been elections from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, you have normally taken mandates, even at one point, which is unimaginable, in this assembly there are 308 MPs, which is unrecorded in the history of a parliament. That's why you're trying to punish the SRS in every way because we resent taking our mandates. Mrs. Comic, if you feel like hearing some noise from my place... . (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... You will hear no more, you will hear the words – thieves, give us back our mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13296	National MP, no injuries, no members of 27, no members of 104. A reminder is made to the MP who has committed an offence by one of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Disturbing speakers, creating riots at the session is a violation. You commit a violation, it's my discretionary right to punish a crime and, believe me, it's a hard job. National MP Dragan Todorovic says there were no violations. People's MP, we have ears, and I have eyes. The MPs of the SRS, hitting the inventory case, disrupting the work of the National Assembly session and, indeed, saying today that there was no banging, is a rather unusual way to try to defend something that is unprotective. For the offense I saw it committed, I gave a warning measure. For a violation I don't see it committed, I don't give a warning measure, as you could be testifying every time the offense was committed, and I can't see that the Rules of Procedure is being violated and that the dignity of the National Assembly is being threatened. Tossing, MP, also constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that your promise to throw away, instead of banging things about inventory, is the basis for sentence. It's just that in time you have it as a warning, if you decide to throw it away. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13297	Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Comic later interpreted my presentation completely changed his meaning. She commented on everything other than the most important one, which was the subject of which I volunteered to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that in that way, Article 104 and Article 105 were violated. Rules of Procedure. Once again, I'm going to remind you of the essence of my previous report. I asked, "How is it possible that someone in this assembly speaker should call the messengers a maniac without even being warned by the chairman, let alone a punishment?" Then, I asked -- how is it possible that the same disciplinary measure is given to a people's MP who threw, if we all know it, the citizens of Serbia, every day in the Assembly, every hour, is thrown away every minute? Every moment someone throws someone, much worse insults, much worse words than those that were the reason for punishing Mr. Zivanovic. How can a throw be equated, like a disciplinary offense, with a physical attack on the MP? It's just, it's incomprehensible to me. I asked for an explanation. It's also incomprehensible to me, we had a case that an DS MP, a senior DS official, cursed his mother to the SRS MP. The DS MP came out for the pay phone, admitted that he had committed the violation, however, suffered no disciplinary consequences. Next, I asked, how is it possible in a home such as the National Assembly to steal 160 documents, 160 official documents, and that the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly do not take the occasion, absolutely, any measures, as if nothing had happened? The last question I asked is -- how is it possible that in any state parliament in the world, not only in Europe, but also in Africa, in those banana countries, a political party that did not just take part in parliamentary elections, but did not exist at all at the time of the election? It is a continuation of one practice, the practice of double arches. My predecessors mentioned that we had unpunished cases, that the MPs participated in the burning of the National Assembly on October 5th, that they were unpunished in the conduct of a violent coup, that they participated in the burning of state television, that they voted from Bodrum, that they voted from Thessaloniki. So perhaps you are, in fact, objective. When all these things can go unpunished in one state parliament, then, in the end, something must, as counterpart Markovic says, and punishable, and the easiest thing to do is to punish the people of the opposition, the MPs of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13298	National MP, by looking at the stenogram, you will see that I have neither twisted nor commented on any part of your presentation, and on the repeated explanation that there has been an injury to Article 104, you have mainly asked rhetorical questions. What I can tell you is that there is no breach of Article 104 on my part, because it is the application of the Rules of Procedure during the session of the National Assembly. It is your will to illustrate it with events or violations of other rules and regulations, which have nothing to do with the session of the National Assembly. I don't have that freedom. I have an obligation to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I said that I advocated the strict application of members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that it would be easier for all the chairpersons and, I suppose, that the sense of equality between us MPs would be stronger. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13299	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have reported for violation of Rule 104 and in accordance with Rule 27 and Article 98 of Rule 2 of this Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, Madam Chairman, today I think she has culminated in the wishes and ideas of those who lead this assembly, when I say, I mean the ruling majority, to dissuade the work in the Assembly. Today we are forced to work only three hours and 20 minutes, due to various sports broadcasts, so in a few days one glory, then another glory, then there will be sports transfers again, and in this way you are trying to dissipate the work of the Assembly. Secondly, what is a big problem and what happens during work in the Assembly, I really must express the confidence of many MPs that, among other things, I do not say – consciously, you also contribute to this work. You have a group of MPs, or a group of MPs, who are unhappy about something and who are also uncomfortable, are likely to have to go out constantly about the Rules of Procedure. You have a second parliamentary group, which is uncomfortable because of everything that's being said, and all the other MPs, who are embarrassed to follow this. You don't have any members of the parliamentary groups of the ruling majority in this room. They got away with it and let a circus of the Parliament be made here. You're trying, I don't know why, that after every speaker that comes out here and tries to advertise the Rules of Procedure you answer. Whether they're right or wrong, we can plead every time in voting day. They are advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure because they believe that one right is threatened by this Rules of Procedure, or that the Rules of Procedure are not respected in the way they should be. As at school, if the teacher has students who are causing a problem for him, he's trying to solve the problem; whether he's going to kick them out of class, but he's going to see if it doesn't lead anywhere, or if he's going to tolerate their indiscipline in class, in his opinion, it doesn't lead anywhere, but it's trying to find a solution. Sit down and talk to them. We've been here for two hours, and we're probably going to have the same objection from one parliamentary group and the same reaction from the ruling majority, who's going to try through the media or, eventually, one or two outings for this pay phone to say that the MP group that advertises something is wrong. Believe me, I know that most of the citizens who are following this, too, are unfortunately convinced that the ruling majority is intent on making a circus out of the congregation, to devise the existence of the Assembly, to completely destroy the dignity of this congregation. No one here wants to participate, but please, in accordance with Article 98, pause, or after the meeting, sit with the heads of Parliament. It's got to come out of this. There's something wrong with the Rules of Procedure. Someone thinks the Rules of Procedure is broken. This could take forever, and that suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13300	National MP, you are on the verge of insulting and violating Article 104 in describing the National Assembly. I warn you to change the way you treat all MPs, to avoid the metaphors you used in the presentation. No breach of Article 104. What I am obliged to do under article 100 is that, when the MP says that a member has been injured, I say there has been no injury. Given that you are not the only one who uses the word'relamm', it would be better if more professional than me, when they come out for a pay phone and get a word, explain what it means – I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is not a matter that I warn you about, but I think that if we are to strictly respect everything that is written in the Rules of Procedure, it would be good and explain what it means – I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1). Otherwise, the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary groups was and the current work was the result of the agreement. At the meeting, there was a National MP, Nenad Milic, and you can hear from him what was agreed there. Excuse me, MPs, on hold.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13301	Madam Chairman, I'd like to remind you of last week's session, I think it was Friday, maybe Thursday, and I went out for this pay phone to protest the behavior of Tomislav Nikolic, who in passing, next to the place where I sit, said something very ugly, and what I experienced as a threat. That's when I said it again, now I won't, I'm really embarrassed. You couldn't hear it, but you could see from the look on my face and the astonishment that there was something that wasn't suitable for this congregation. You did not consider it appropriate to punish Tomislav Nikolic at the time, to warn, to do anything, and to take the protection of one MP. Today, people who watch this transfer of the Assembly report that, at a time when Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic spoke, Tomislav Nikolic, the camera zoomed in, once again, by showing, with his finger, threatening the speaker, and saying a sentence that I also do not want to repeat. It's an orthodox curse and it could be read from the lips of Tomislav Nikolic, and these are the ones who followed this transmission saw. So, is what you haven't heard and seen, and seen the entire Serbian public, supposed to be sanctioned in some way, if we're all even here, if we're keeping the dignity of this tall home? Please, you have a really serious problem with a man here in parliament. Here, maybe, somehow we're not that threatened, but when we go out this door, I really don't know what can come into that man's head, or what little Wolfie can tell him at that point that he should do, not just to me, but to any of my colleagues. I also warn you, but also the competent authorities, that it is about people who are willing to, by order of their mentors, do everything they're told, destroying the authority of the Assembly, breaking the basic rules of democracy, breaking down, ultimately, and their own state, by making a coup in the SRS, wanting to reduce the influence of opposition political parties, at a time when the worst possible things happen to us. Believe me, this isn't by any chance what's happening to us, and this has been cooked by the ambassadors, as far as this decision is concerned, just that we're nowhere to be found. Look at all the problems we have, besides territorial problems, issues of sovereignty, economic problems, but let's not talk about it, Tomislav Nikolic. He sold his forest, and the flag, and all those people when he sold the ideologies to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13302	In voicing the warning measure, it is precisely that the chairman sees that the offence has taken place. If I'd seen it, I'd have punished the offense with a warning. There have been attempts to give a warning measure because another MP says he saw something happen and I am determined against it because it would turn into a complete abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, the reason yesterday's warning measures were made is because I saw the violation. When any MP commits a violation, and I find that the offence was committed by violating one of the members of the Rules of Procedure, he will be given a warning measure, a warning measure, as harshly as a member of 106 prescribed that each chairman must work. National MP Sladjan Mijaljević wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13303	Articles 27 and 104. I'd like to mention a few things about dignity and the ambience that are created here in the Assembly. Indeed, ever since I entered the congregation, in this congregation, I haven't experienced as many ugly things as I've seen and experienced here. You're trying to sanction SRS MPs who really have to react to certain things that a certain individual says from this pay phone. I hold in my hand the stenograms of what Tomislav Nikolic said from September to today, here. I'll just quote a few sentences. Let's say, "Let them earn, it's good, they're still alive. I'm telling you, there's an open door for you, Uncle Ljubina," sent to the MPs of the SRS, of course, always. "Don't just listen to this sect. I don't have a bad word for you. I have an open door for you. We'll be here after the next election, and I'm not sure for you. Politically, you still exist, while you have this mandate that some of us deserve for you. None of you will enter this door again. You're dead." Then, to my reaction to the President of the Assembly, as this man says, he added a sentence: "You are politically dead, but you are not yet aware of it. "How do you think we can react to all this? Well, we, I guess, have the organism as well as the person concerned, and our organism, I guess, reacts as its organism reacts. You don't think we're air, immaterial beings? So when he invites me into what he created, there is no greater insult for me, indeed, no greater insult. Everyone in this congregation knows how well-intentioned I am. I co-operate with every MP from any political party. At all the meetings of the Sports and Youth Committee and of European integration, I supported, gave, even, even, the quorum when you did not have it, when you were unable to provide a quorum for the maintenance of certain sessions. I work with my LDP colleagues, we exchange information and data. Here, I just let my colleague Marasha speak in front of me, no problem at all. That kind of protest that we're exhibiting here is how we have to show it, we want to break out of torment, because this man doesn't stop annoying us from the assembly pay phone, he doesn't stop. The other day, passing through here, he threw something at me. I didn't notice that, since the touch, absolutely, I don't want, except through the assembly pay phone, to observe, to watch, to observe his behavior. My colleagues told me he stopped and threw something at me. I hope that his organism will not react to my organism in the way he reacted to his colleague, Srboljub Zivanovic, that he will not move towards me; otherwise, I will have to do some preventive actions, which is to shave my beard and hair, that there is nothing to pull me back from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13304	People's MP, in your explanation of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have set an example that speaks in favour of punishing and expressing the measures for violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because the MP you spoke of has received a warning about his actions, as you are being warned about your actions, that is to say, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It would be best if there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure, then there would be no unpopular statement of measures. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13305	Reporting under Article 104. You just called Ambassador Sladjan Myaljevic. I don't know if it's the same gentleman that Alexander Vukic brought to the party, at the time I led that party, and when my ideology ruled the party, is it the same man who now says that this ideology doesn't suit him and that little Wolfie doesn't suit him? If it's the same man, it's a big metamorphosis. Something else is more important than you, Mr. Myalevich. The party's ideology has changed since 1991, many of you, of course, don't know, have adapted to circumstances. It has been changed greatly by new circumstances – that the DOS has introduced Europe into Serbia and that we have not been able to escape from it, has changed greatly at the time I led the party. Like it now or not, I led the party. According to the party's statutes, the president went voluntarily to The Hague and left me to run the party and take care of the party, and I did so. That ideology dominated until three months ago. Vojislav Seselj has betrayed this ideology. He brought you back to 1990, and he's right. Now he's running the party, no deputies, no trust in any of you to run the party, run it from The Hague, give instructions on the phone. He's right, he doesn't trust any of you to do it here. It is no longer the ideology with which you entered this House. If we're talking about voter fraud, did you come in with a story about a house with two doors or a house with one door, did you come in with a story that there was no co-operation with the EU, or that there was co-operation, under certain conditions? How did you get into the National Assembly? What were you saying at the mitts? What was I saying? Did you say anything different than I did? Did I say, perhaps, something you didn't like? Why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you say I should talk differently in the campaign, but wait for which one of you to become an MP? Today you are Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I respect your seats, and I address you with dignity. Don't forget, those insults none of you would have suffered. Now you sometimes expose me to the public court because I react when you exaggerate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which I get out once in 15 days, and that's a lot to you. It would be your favorite to insult me from day to day, and the party I lead, and to destroy Parliament without speaking at all. Why, do I have any guilt? Do I have any blame for any of you? Have I ever said anything wrong to any of you and not done anything wrong? Why are you doing this to me and my family now? Because Vojislav Seselj ordered it? Why are you chasing this man who doesn't know what he's doing, that he insults me every hour, day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute? Why don't you say so? Why don't you party leaders curse your mother, woman? Why don't you take responsibility, which is just him? My ideology is Serbia, and your ideology is the destruction of Serbia and you are aware of that. During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS ambassadors are banging on the bench all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13306	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop - Lazic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe me, I would not go out for this pay phone if I were to engage in any controversy with this man, but for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I must. So, always, at all times, members of the SRS are obliged to respect the party's statutes. The party's statutes provide that the party's president is to be elected at the congress. The party's president was Prof. Vojislav Seselj and he was always the party's president, and everyone else, it was the deputy, or vice president, or the Central Authority, who could work within the framework of their powers and with consultations with the party's president, as much as necessary. Tomislav Nikolic never received the authority to lead the party. Apparently, little Vukic made Tomislav Nikolic look like a leader in front of a mirror, like, he's SRS, he runs the SRS, while an innocent man rots in The Hague tribunal, here he is, full of six-seven years. He's talking about that man betraying the SRS, which means he should also betray the state of Serbia, because he's fighting for Serbia there, while he enjoys all the benefits of freedom and all the things he's taken with him, took from the tycoon and the others who have participated in everything he's done, as an impertinent one. Therefore, the party's ideology, if that is the issue, was issued by him and little Vukic. They want to "sanderize" Serbia. They gave up the Serbian borders of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica, did not give up the SRS, did not give up Vojislav Seselj, but what is certain and what you all know, which is why, apparently, your conscience is not clean and what you are afraid of, is that Vojislav Seselj, by God's will, is there to always correct human sins, return to his homeland, and very quickly. Then you shall pass by him, and you shall look into the eyes of that man: what you have done, what terrible lies you bring forth, making it even more difficult for him to stand there, and for him and his family. The SRS is the same party that has been formerly on these sites since the appearance of the multi-party system and has not changed its programme for yotu; it may have modernised it as part of new economic opportunities in the country, but as far as the national programme is concerned, it is exactly the same. Mr. Nikolic, we haven't always agreed with you about what you're saying. That door and that "preach" you were talking about was something we were disgusted about, but at that moment we couldn't react. The time has come for us to throw away the rotten fruit and remain only what is healthy in the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13308	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that during my last report, I said it was a harsh violation of Article 104. If I haven't said so, I apologize to the chairman and, behold, for this date, and for the previous one, it's about Article 104. Why is the dignity of the National Assembly harshly violated during today? Mr. Micunovic, so to speak, interrupted the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by speaking to Mr. Aligrudic, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic and then Mr. Micunovic; I counted on him to answer some of the questions he asked in his presentation. When I answered the word, he said – the session was interrupted. That arrogant behavior isn't just about his performance. In fact, Mrs Nada Kolundzija said, the means of information have been announced – I will make every effort to ensure that none of the MPs of the SRS are in the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, or in all the other delegations, I will work with all the forces. Mrs. Kolundjia, if we have drawn some democratic values here in Serbia and if we want to achieve them, you will hardly be able to achieve them in such a way. As far as European values are concerned, so Europe has told you, ladies and gentlemen, what European values are, what the concept of democracy is by these European standards. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic has with her a letter from the Council of Europe regarding the verification of the delegation's mandate, which was supposed to be there yesterday. The list says Tomislav Nikolic - SRS. I'm sorry, but Europe doesn't know what it is. An advanced party, because it did not participate in the elections, and they tell you – don't play, there are parties that participated in the elections, there are parties that can be formed between the two elections, so go to the elections, so get some results, and based on these results, eventually, have some rights and some obligations. So Europe has told you that there is no Progressive Party in this House. As for the departure and formation of that party, imagine a company where a man, a group of people work; the next day they quit, they leave the company, but the means to work don't return, neither the cars, nor the trucks, nor the computers, but they say, we now carry it with us. It can't. The property cannot be taken away, because, based on injustice, the right can never be exercised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will take a long time until democracy is finally introduced into this parliament, in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13310	There is no violation of Article 104, nor did you explain the injury to this session, and at committee meetings all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are applied accordingly, so you should have pointed out the injury during the session of the Committee, one or any other. MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13311	Mrs. Komic, I hope that the viewers in direct transmission also have the opportunity to hear some of my comments, where I am giving you support when you warmly advocate strict respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm the one who keeps throwing and saying – so, Goco, so the chairman, you're right. I'm taking the opportunity and now to say, I always support you when you apply the Rules of Procedure in the way it's written, but I must, Mrs. Komic, tell you that I'm now out calling on Article 27, to tell you that you have violated that member. This morning I gave you this, with the font letter 18, and I said you didn't need any logical, no grammatical interpretation, you just need to see it. I've shared a little with the press, and no one's going to publish tomorrow in the paper. Now to stand in front of this camera, to zoom in on the text, to see – The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations, as set out in Article 1, is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. That's not controversial. We are looking for a proportionate representation of political parties, and you assure us that Tomislav Nikolic is a member of the SRS. Get Otto Kishmarton, Zankov, Masic to come out and tell them what the party is. If they say they're SRS, then this decision is acceptable. If they say they're SNS, then you're mistaken, gentlemen, you're making a major breach of the Rules of Procedure. I showed you in 2007, it says the name and name of the MPs and whose political party it belongs to, not the parliamentary group. You also received a letter from the Council of Europe, one of those bodies, which is said to be a political party. But you're pushing. Why? You won't save any of the charges. Mrs. Komic, I am too pleased with yesterday's session of the National Assembly. I've already given the order to multiply the entire stenogram so I can take it to court. You said the political party and the parliamentary group were the same. Mrs. Komic, on the National Assembly site, there are 21 persons who are members of the SRS. You insult them, they don't want to be members of the SRS, and we don't want them to be members of us, but you need them for the 'borum policy'. You have now taught us, in these two days, that democracy has its own unit of measures, and that unit of measures is called the Hope of the Colundji. The immediate upper unit of the measure is Gordana Komic. The immediate senior unit of measures is Dragoljub Micunovic. For the audience, you know, the weight is measured on grams, decagrams, kilograms, and you passed it on to democracy. This has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. This is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is not drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Comic. Follow the Rules of Procedure strictly. I'm giving you absolute support, hold on. Article 239 and Article 2 is not difficult to understand. It's not hard, Mrs. Comic, to be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13312	People's MP, you'd have to get a warning now, and you won't get it, although you speak for four minutes and 11 seconds, because strict application of the Rules of Procedure would mean violation of article 100, which says you can only speak for three minutes. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I apologize. ) Apology accepted. Article 27 has not been broken and the material for the session has been prepared in accordance with the agreement of the president of the parliamentary groups. That's the explanation I've given before and now. People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I point to a breach of Article 104. Of course, we won't agree, that's for sure, about all of it. You see, this debate that's being held today is not a coincidence, there's good reason to run it. Some of the facts will say that political correctness is hypocrisy. I can adopt that and agree with that, perhaps, but what are we talking about? You punished 13 MPs of the SRS yesterday. What struck me during this massive act of punishment is to remind you that you were the first and only to apply it. Be aware of that fact. Neither did the President of the Assembly, nor did your fellow vice presidents, some of whom even led this session occasionally, allow themselves, so ask yourself how it should happen only to you and why it happens. It doesn't matter to me, I don't mind the authoritative way you run these sessions, I think it's a matter and a personal attitude, that it's quite right and that it's allowed, however, there's one other thing. It is that the President of Parliament, and you must be now, at this point, doing your duty and the President, you are in full capacity, first among us, but he is equal. Someone told you earlier, you swear on Western democracy. We all say that England is a cradle of parliamentaryism, and there's a person sitting in your seat, not by chance, since I see myself, and linguistics you do a lot of work, it's called speaker. However, as you lead Parliament and debate, one would say that you are a dwarf. You have no right to judge, and you regularly judge and make a stand whether someone has made a mistake, whether he is right. Then where's freedom of opinion, then where's the diversity? Why do I have no right to make mistakes and not be right? Don't be a judge, please, it doesn't seem like anyone who runs this parliament. Please, you're saying that we insulted Parliament by banging, for disturbing the speakers, and you insult Parliament. Here it stands, and day and day we show you that some Antic, some Arsic, some Becic, I don't underestimate people, a member of the SRS. It is an insult, it is the spread of false information, and you are the protagonist of it, and you now resent us for insulting Parliament. Stop insulting Parliament and Serbian radicals and citizens of Serbia and get this off the site, write that it is -- the Serbian Progressive Party, as they are already called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13314	People's MP, the warning measures are in agreement with Article 106, because a violation has been committed. Every chairman has an obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. So when the Messenger of the people commits an offence for which the measure of warning is prescribed, then the measure is expressed, and that is what was done yesterday, what was done today, and will be done in any case when a breach occurs, or the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Paja Momchilov claims that Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic did not beat. People's MP, I have already said in one wave that they are measuring warnings cannot be spoken by hearing or telling you that some other MP has broken the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the warning measures are made only if the chairman notices that there has been a violation. Do the MPs allow the session to continue, or do we intend to violate the Rules of Procedure until the measures are expressed? We can keep going. Thank you. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13315	Mrs. Comic, yesterday at least 13 times you injured members of 27, 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure while you are chairing the meeting, and you did not do so yesterday, at least not in accordance with the provisions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. In order not to get the wrong impression in public, SRS MPs are not complaining or complaining about getting a warning, being punished by 3,000 dinars. We do not have a problem with that, because for SRS lawmakers, as well as for all members of the SRS, party ideology and interests of Serbian citizens, Serbian national interests, have no price. So, you can go back, what you tried yesterday, in 2002 and in 2003, Mrs. Komic, we remember you from that ugly period. I'll remind you, let's say, on a work day, that's when you were also supposed to hold the presidency, when the MPs from 10 to 30 o'clock in the evening were waiting outside the gym, because they didn't know if the session would begin. You had some internal problems then, so at half past seven, you came down to inform the MPs that Natasa Micic had told us that the session could not be held, because the time had expired. We also remember you, Mrs. Comic, and from the time when you were in anger, you gave notices to the MPs of the SRS, that is, it was a measure of distance from the session, so you began to read one by one MP. In the end, you said, "Oh, everybody on the SRS list." At that time, the rest was recorded, excluded from the session, due to labour interference, MP Stevo Dragisic, who was at that time in Batajnica, or Bozo Vučurević, who was at that time in Igal. So we don't find it strange what you're doing. You were trying to say that the MPs of the SRS, in a certain way, show the political position of the SRS. You, obviously, showed here yesterday the Democratic Party's political stance. Yesterday you were in charge of punishing the MPs, you thought in some way you'd bring us into some kind of flow. Here, I'm just entering the fourth minute. I know it's against the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I'll just ask you one question. Here, I've downloaded the Agriculture Committee from the site, and it doesn't matter which board, each one is the same, and here we have, let's say, behind the name Otto Kishmarton – SRS, Mašić Zoran, SRS. They're people who are excluded from the SRS. Furthermore, Maksimovic Saša, SRS. (President: Time's up. This is officially on Parliament's website. This is inadmissible, but you can't do it differently, because you know you can't write that one, as it's already called, party, because that party didn't participate in the election. Please answer us – the members of which party are these three names I have mentioned now?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13316	No injured member 27, no member 104, no today, no yesterday. So, when a breach of the Rules of Procedure is committed for which the sentence is prescribed, then the chairman is forced to do so. It was done yesterday. In your presentation, in an explanation – when and in what cases the measures are expressed, only one untrue is spoken. So, in the event of a distance from the session, the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly, not me, chaired. For the rest of you are all right, as far as convincing events from previous mandates or previous sessions of the Assembly are concerned. It has nothing to do with yesterday's session. Therefore, the violations of the Rules of Procedure would not have been if the MPs hadn't beaten up the items of inventory, and they had pounded objects about inventory. This is a violation of Article 104 – a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and deserves, unfortunately, an expression of the measure of caution. There is a People's MP, Mico Rogovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: In which party are the MPs that I have listed? ) The People's Parliament has asked questions about the parties. I think the question is rhetorically raised on your part and, as in the previous case, when the president of your parliamentary group spoke about it, you know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I ask you not to remind MPs of the MP group on my right during my presentation, because, believe me, it's hard to get into a situation where you talk about this pay phone without hearing the sounds of music, all kinds of boxes of keys, chemical and all that. (During the presentation of MP Mica Rogovic, the SRS MPs are banging on the bench and music is heard. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13318	Excuse me, MP. Can I ask the MP who's playing music right now in the O.R. to turn off the device he's playing the music from? To be clear, it's not done in the National Assembly. I can't see which of the MPs includes music and the device they play music with, so I can't get into a situation to express a measure that implies such a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If we don't understand that this is not done during the session, then no measure of any rules of procedure will help us. So please do not include a device playing music during the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13319	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Before I go to art. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out one thing. 13 years ago, in 1995, when I met Mr. Alexander Vukic, a lot of MPs on my right weren't in the SRS. Now, I'd like to continue after the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Please, Madam Chairman, forward the next parliamentary question to the Ministry of Energy and Mining. The ministry was mentioned on 21 February 2007, resolving at the request of South Danube Metals d.o.o. from Belgrade for the issue of geological research, issued a solution approving the company to conduct geological research on copper, gold and accompanying metals in the area of Apple – Kamena Gora, located on the territory of the municipality of Prepolje, an area from which I also come. The area of the Apple – The Kamena Gora is, by the way, the border area between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. According to case number 310-02-082/2007-06, the same ministry has resolved the case number 310-02/609/244-6, since 7.12.2006, the company 'Murex Mining and Geology', also, for the purposes of geological research, but in the area of Chadinj territory, a geographical concept which is also located in the municipality of Prepolje. For the purpose of research, researchers received a 30-day period from the ministry mentioned, and they also received a commitment, in addition to all the obligations arising from these types of research, to issue a quarterly report on the results of the research and all other measures. I'm not pointing out pro-forms for this. In Vodice for Investors in 2009, which the municipality of Prepolje did last year, it is noted that one of the natural resources and ore, and that the estimated reserves of copper, lead, zinc are approximately 40 million, and thus far seven million have been investigated. However, it is also said that future resources, what the municipality of Prepolje and the surrounding villages want to deal with, rural and mountain tourism, have so far been registered in the area of the Ethno village of Kamen Gora around 50 accommodation facilities in the rural tourism area. Citizens of this area want to know what will be done by the Serbian government at the aforementioned locations, what research are they? I'm asking you to give me the answer to that question, too. (All the time speech by MP Mica Rogovic, the SRS MPs are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13320	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. He's not in the O.R. right now. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13321	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what it looks like to be exposed to a man who is trying to win a local rating, given that he received one vote in his village in the local elections and is still a dilemma who voted for this gentleman. In order not to deal with it, that my time is not working, on the basis of Article 104, I must remind the MPs of a few facts. A case from the Federal Assembly, which is well-known to Mr Nikolic, the case of Momir Vojdovic, who wanted to move to the SRS Parliamentary Club, was completed by insisting that the president of our party could enter the SRS on condition that he returned his mandate to the party from which he came. It is not a controversial fact, Mr Nikolic has repeated it a million times. I am now entering a dilemma that has made Mr. Nikolic a favorite politician, Boris Tadic, because I knew him, as an SRS official and MP, as a poor man in the pocket and rich in the soul. Since the change from that story rotated 180 degrees, now he's rich in his pocket and poor in his soul. The facts that speak for it, and the evidence, are the following. When some qualifications were presented for the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and when one of the MPs responded to those qualifications and asked for the Assembly to declare them, the Assembly said so, and you, gentlemen of the DS, voted for those qualifications to remain true, that those qualifications were correct, and when Boris Tadic's favorite speaker came out, SRS MPs received sentences and warnings. The question now arises – for what reasons is dignity injured, for which reasons are the messengers who speak only the truth punished? I ask you for an answer, Mrs. Comic, in accordance with Article 100(3), and I hope to be pleased with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13322	No messengers, they won't, and they can't be punished for telling the truth. The MPs are given a warning measure because they violate Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and they beat things up about inventory. This is the basis for a warning, for it is a distraction of speakers and a distraction of the session of the National Assembly. Like every other time, a warning, or any measure, will be made only for a violation. No misdemeanor, no warning. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise, Mrs. Comic, an injury to members 27th and 104th. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I'm burdening you with Article 27, and I'm going to explain that. As far as Article 104's injury is concerned, I'm burdening one of the previous speakers for this pay phone. Of course, I don't mention his name, for the sole reason that I believe that he left only his physiology in this House. That same person, a few days ago, or in the past few weeks, had the habit of telling your desk how someone was trading recipes there. Reading a book a few days ago, I came across a sentence containing one recipe, and that recipe could contain everything that this person does these days, along with those who follow him. It's a kilo of vanity, two kilos of vanity and two tons of dirt. It's not my intention, and I don't think that's the most important thing. Mrs. Komic, everything that happens here today, and yesterday, makes it clear that you are on a mission, that you are a man of the task, that people who sit at your table or do not want to, or are unable to do. Of course, I'm also convinced that beyond this public, past the cameras, it doesn't do you any good either, but all that you're trying to do yesterday and today, that everything that's going on in this assembly, what you're doing, present as if you want to protect the dignity and Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament, is not responding to the truth; the essence of the whole story is that in one different way, you present the dry and current political interests of the party to which you belong. I am convinced that this opinion is shared by the vast majority of MPs sitting on this left hand side. One banality, which Mr Krasic pointed out to you on several occasions today at the pay phone, is to persistently exploit the category of the parliamentary group. We are asking you and insist that you state which MP is involved. Even in the light of a solution on the agenda, it is said that the representation of political parties, political parties participating in the elections and in the same elections, on 11 May, won seats in this parliament. You, Mrs. Comic, and everyone else in that game, can avoid it. This will not solve the problem for the future, nor for other legislative activities. By your behavior, both you and those who give you guidance and suggestions, you're just spreading the fire that you started the day you accepted and confessed to the election theft in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13324	People's MP, no harm done. 27 and 104 in the statement of measures pursuant to Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no harm done. 239 and 27 when preparing the material for this session. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13325	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not heard the word "worthyness" in my life as in the last few months in this assembly. I think the time has come to finally take someone into the defense of this institution, because we all know that the dignity of this congregation has been greatly violated and that is why I am calling on Article 104. Rules of Procedure. For all I know, democracy means the rule of the majority. As far as I know, the ruling coalition makes up the majority here, it has power, it has set up, out of its ranks, the President of the Assembly and two vice presidents of the Assembly. So, two vice presidents who always replace the president, so they, in fact, have power in this assembly. Therefore, if they have power, if it's about democracy, then they should apply that power. If they are to apply it, that means they should apply the Rules of Procedure as well. If it is that someone is obstructing the work of this congregation, it cannot possibly be a minority, it can only be the majority, whose hands are the authority, the possibility, the means, and the application of the Rules of Procedure to manage the work of this congregation. Therefore, no blame should be placed on this minority for obstruction and for the unhappiness of the assembly. For the destruction of authority, I believe that the ruling majority is guilty, I mean the authority of the Assembly, and certainly no opposition, which is in the minority; that is why the opposition is, because it is in the minority, if we go from the principle of democracy. Accordingly, the president of the Assembly and the two vice-presidents of the Assembly, who are constantly replacing the President of the Assembly, are obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure, to maintain order, to make sure that the Assembly performs its basic function, and apparently does not perform it. I really think the authority of a congregation in one state is very important. That authority has been greatly violated here. The public sees this congregation and has the worst opinion of it. In doing so, I expect them to recognize who is responsible for this little authority of our legislative body. By the way, I'm calling for Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not applied during the conduct of the assembly session. If this current Rules of Procedure, as much as it may not be fully practical and functional, applies, I think this assembly could work and achieve the goals of its existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13326	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Article 27 has not been broken, I take care of the order and application of all the members of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13327	It concerns Article 104. First of all, God helps, brothers and sisters, Serbian citizens and citizens in this high house. One thing is the fact: today is the great Serbian glory of the Holy Sava. That nothing is accidental in life, the fact that in the Serbian Parliament, just before the day of this lighthouse, the founders of the Serbian state, the independent SPC, the great movable and lover of his people, an example diplomat, lasts a debate on the composition of permanent delegations in international parliamentary institutions. What has made us so far apart from each other that we cannot agree on the fundamental issues of our national and national interest and find at least a minimum common goal, so that we do not throw ourselves in the face of the world? We expect those who respect us for our history, culture, enlightening and free spirit to know nothing, but judge only on the basis of current conflicts on the global political Serbian scene, drawing the conclusion that we are both a nation and as a state untrustworthy and unworthy partner treatment. It is not clear to the citizens of Serbia at all what we have been discussing here for two days about how we are not where we should be, and where we are, we cannot agree, as if some speak Chinese, others Serbian, and the third jupitarian. Saint Sava was an inspired diplomat, not an infertile Polishman. He well understood that the basis of a Serbian national being is love, the need for freedom and development. So it was, and so it was, we just got a little carried away with something that wasn't ours, and we headed through a newly combined and wrongly interpreted quasi-European model, in which man killed God, declared himself a deity, developed a culture that produces idols, and the ultimate idol is money and plenty of things that ultimately have to be enslaved. Brothers and sisters, in the sacred philosophy of the world, in which we so swear, there are only two basic principles. The first principle is: the world is worship; the second is worship. Everything we do now, every gesture of ours, the spoken word, echoes far into eternity, and it wouldn't be bad if we became aware that the purpose of our lives can't be to inflict injustice, insult, evil, revenge on another man, however different he may be in attitudes and actions from us. No one, at least for a moment who came into our lives, asked us something, looked at us, passed by, didn't do it by accident. In each of these people, God framed his character and predicted him for good, as did we. If we turn the leaf, if from today on, as representatives of this great nation who have two beacons for the founder of the state: the Holy Sava and the Holy Simeon of the Peacekeeper, we start acting differently, knowing that we are not just temporary colleagues in one assembly, but companions to a common eternity, we will finally do something for the past, the present, but also the future. Saint Sava is an ancestor, but also a duty, a givenness, but also a model, just as we are – representatives of the people, a model for all those who look at us and are often identified with our behavior. Every day, the number of juvenile delinquents and aggressive outbursts in children who do not have enough developed ability to distinguish good and evil. As adults, people with responsibility in front of those who have shown us trust and honor to represent them, we must have developed the ability to judge and distinguish good and evil, which means that we do not always have to respond with insult, not to exorcise the onion beat, but to, in the interest of those children who will carry Serbia tomorrow, be less vain and more reasonable. (President: Four minutes. I'm done. To truly represent this great country and this great nation anywhere in the world, we don't need any external revolution. Holy eyes say he is the greatest revolutionary – a man of holy life. Let's transform ourselves from the inside, try to at least here, during these long-term sessions, which and how they follow, perhaps more than the popular Big Brother, we look like real bearers of worldly culture, who cherish the already forgotten virtues of a type of faith, hope, direction, brotherly love. It would not only be symbolic, but it would be a real transformation in Serbian parliamentary life to agree as people today, honor and remember at least the last strof of the Saint-Savo's anthem: "To have all your hearts united with you, the sun of peace, love, that we all son, that we all live in harmony, Saint Sava help you. Hear the voice of your kin, the Serb people. "
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13328	The word is from MP Filip Stojanovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13329	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask for a notice and an explanation from the government of Serbia and the KIM Ministry and I ask a parliamentary question. KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic said the government of Serbia set aside a total of 39 billion dinars for KIM in 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13330	People's MP, I'm just asking you to rephrase it, because you can't ask MP questions; you can just ask for a notice. Because of the stenogram, I'll make it up to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13331	KIM Minister Goran Bogdanovic said the government of Serbia set aside a total of 39 billion dinars for KIM in 2009. Although the budget is restrictive, the minister says these funds cover the ministry's plans. This 2009 budget singled out two and a half billion dinars for salaries and fees for about 5,300 employees in KIM institutions. About 300m dinars were scheduled to pay salaries to newly employed people in 26 KIM municipalities, which is commendable for every praise, both the Serbian government and the KIM ministry, as Serbia thus shows that it did not leave Serbs from KIM. However, there is one other thing I ask for an answer and I ask the parliamentary question of Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Goran Bogdanovic, and that – what is the correct number...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13332	People's MP, please rephrase, you can't ask a parliamentary question, you can just ask for a notice and information. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13333	Art. 225 and 226 – I ask the Minister – what is the exact number of people who are employed in the services of the Ministry of KIM and what is the number of people who work in the Shiptar institutions, who receive personal incomes in the Ministry of KIM and in the Shiparian municipalities? These things are inadmissible and we need to know which people are allowed to do this. Everyone knows, but everybody's quiet. There are cases that some people are abroad, or live in Serbia, and are receiving personal incomes on KIM. I ask Minister Goran Bogdanovic to take appropriate measures to prevent such criminal acts, as such events and crimes threaten stability and cause dissatisfaction with all honest Serbs at KIM. I want another announcement from the Serbian government. By NATO's decision, they were formed so-called. Kosovo's security forces, the Kosovo military, are estimated to pose a potential and serious threat to peace and stability in the region, especially in KIM. As you know, every day we hear a few statements from our officials, who say – we will stand for their dissociation. I find these statements by our politicians very irresponsible and irresponsible. If someone wanted to do something, then they had to stop the formation of these security forces in time, and not now, when they're going to stand up and seek their dissociation. I ask the government and the foreign ministry for an answer – did the Serbian government take any measures to prevent the formation of these security forces of the Kosovo Army, so-called. Republic of Kosovo, aided by Americans? This violates UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13334	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13335	Madam Chairman, thank you for this opportunity. I use my right under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I would also like to remind myself of the part about the human rights and freedoms of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where, among other things, it is said in Article 23 - human dignity is intact and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it. Everyone has the right to freely develop a person, unless it violates the rights of others guaranteed by the Constitution. Also, Article 25, which speaks of physical and psychological integrity, that it is invulnerable, that no one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment. We are witnessing, first of all, the total derogation of something that has been known in time as the reputation of the highest body in one country, such as Parliament in Serbia. What is true, citizens see it, certain polls and analyses, at some point, it shows, is who is responsible and who is the main culprit for the reputation of this congregation being completely destroyed. The early parliamentary elections were held on 11 May 2008, because one part of the then ruling majority understood what Washington and Brussels were looking for, which is independent Kosovo and Metohija. On this issue, KIM was broken, i.e. it was tried to break, and it was also weakened, the Serbian Radical Party, which won 78 seats in the elections, by presenting to Serbian citizens the Electoral List of Dr Vojislav Seselj, by saying that the borders of the national interest of Serbian radicals were Karlobag - Ogulin-Carlovac - Virovitica, by saying it would not give up on peaceful political and diplomatic means to fight for the truth about the conquered Serbian people. Who bothers the most? Those who bring Serbia down to precuminant Serbia, Washington and Brussels, supported by a good deed, and London. Who cares, too? Those who help them complete the plan in this country. So, Kosovo is excluded, 15% of the Serbian holy country is occupied, the next is Vojvodina. These are the clues we leave here. What is very important to this people, 78 mandates have been won by the SRS. The SNS did not participate in the May elections. I'm finishing my thinking, I'm out of time, I'm sorry in advance, I hope you'll allow me to bring this to an end. It's important that the people understand why this is happening. Because Boris Tadic cherishs the illegal status of "progressors" in the Serbian Parliament. No one voted in favour of the political programme, because, Mr. Nikolic, you said you founded a party without ideology, only with a political programme. (President: Three minutes and 30 seconds) Yesterday you told the journalist "Kurira" that you verbally gave up Kosovo and thus responded to everything. As far as the SRS is concerned, what you said is true, we have never given up co-operation with European integration, the EU, in the first place, but only on one condition, to treat us as an equal partner. (President: Four minutes) Since we are not treated that way, we believe that co-operation is impossible. The present confirms us on a daily basis. Of course, I'll get back to you, because I haven't finished what I want to do by breaking Article 104, and I apologize for this overrun, it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13336	There's no breach of Article 104. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13337	On the basis of Art. In 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Prime Minister – did the government discuss the newly created situation in the Kragujevac car factory, is it ready to suffer the consequences of the citizens' deception, is it ready to go to the citizens of Serbia, Kragujevac in particular, who for more than 20 years, and in the last eight intensively, think exclusively about who will be excessive, who goes to the Employment and Education Office, who goes to retraining, who accepts the union programme, who does not accept? Will the Prime Minister finally label the culprits for bringing the Government of the Republic of Serbia into this? Is that, first of all, Boris Tadic, who led the column in Kragujevac, when he even welcomed the new partners in Italian? What are the names of ministers who entered the big door in the government of the Republic of Serbia and spend part of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Is there any responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the greatest deception of the century, unless it is proved that free bonds are even greater than so-called fraud. Fiat's engagement in Kragujevac? It's the ideology of the Serbian Progressive Party. We're not illegal here. We're not illegal here. Please don't ask Boris Tadic to return those mandates; he's comfortable with this situation, and while he has you like this, he can count on him to rule forever, until he has the right opposition, until you allow the right topics to be spoken here, but only about personal ambitions, his personal interests, his new shoes, which you will spoil, Mr. Todorovic, and you know how much new shoes cost. So as long as you're the subject, Boris Tadic can rule Serbia peacefully. It is not true that the SNS has no ideology and it is not true that I said we gave up on the defence of Kosovo. I only called on the SRS to give up the verbal struggle for Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't mean anything and it says so in that interview, but you're a very capable young woman, you can reverse my words because it suits you. So give up the story of fighting for Kim. Tell us how to fight, tell us how you fight. Give up the big Serbia story, Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica. Tell me how to get here. Take us, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals from Krajina, who say I gave up fighting for the great Serbia, and for four years I've been saying on behalf of all of you that this is our dream and that it's inexplicable. Today someone convinced you that it was feasible. Let's see. I couldn't find any words to explain on behalf of the SRS how feasible it was to get to that border. Come on, you who are smarter, you're all the smartest, tell us how it's possible. Maybe, I can, even, accept that we're involved together. After all, one day we slapped Philip Morris, who daily takes 15m euros from Governor Jelasic, blackmailing Serbia's entire new dinar course, and has already become "yellow" as the coalition is created. But as you react to the behavior of the one you love most, Tadic is calm, completely. (During the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13338	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that it wasn't a dream, that it was a rebellion. Obviously, the consequences remain today. It's interesting how some, after 18 years, easily give up what they've been saying for 18 years. I will remind you of the one who gives orders to Tomislav Nikolic, because what Tomislav Nikolic is saying is a loudspeaker, and the microphone is at Alexander Vukic's and he gives him orders what he needs to say and how he should say it. Let me remind you, Glina, on March 20th 1995: "I welcome the heroic people of Serbia's Banija, the Serbian Gline, you who first set out for Ustasha power," said Aleksandar Vukic, chief ideologist of the SNS, a crowd gathered in the hall. "Glina will never be Croatia, never will Bania be back in Croatia. You will live in great Serbia. There will be no deviation. You brothers do not fight here for what is not yours, but for what has always been Serbian and what must remain Serbian," Vucic said. We stay with every letter that's been said here. Are there any who said this? That's the question. Will those who said this again say they never said they stood up for the great Serbia? As for leadership, Mr. Nikolic, no one has anything to lead you anymore. You went astray and you just obeyed and obeyed orders, and Boris Tadic and Alexander Vukic. That's the end of things. I've already said in my previous statement that you are expected to have a certain end, which you announced at the very beginning. You had a choice, or you'd be an honorable man, or you'd be a traitor. You chose the path of betrayal. These are things that are completely clear. I'm talking to Boris Tadic as partners, not to Boris Tadic himself, but to the DS. I haven't spoken to Boris Tadic at all, unlike you. You were heard in the hallway complaining and complaining – don't do this to me, Boris, when it comes to these three mandates. That's all you have left, waiting for how much you'll be given. Your fate is no longer yours to decide, nor shall you decide at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13340	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13341	I'm glad you're quoting the vice president of the SNS, Mr. Alexander Vukic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13342	People's Messenger to Srboljub Zivanovic, I give you a second warning for banging the inventory case. Continue, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13343	After all, Aleksandar Vukic is such a good young intellectual and politician that he wrote almost all the speeches of Vojislav Seselj who were read publicly. He never wrote me a single speech. You're saying I betrayed you. No, I left Vojislav Seselj, who told you and me in The Hague, in a cell, – we can enter power, now Kosovo and Metohija are lost. So I'll put my hand on the Bible, put you on it, and see who lies. I don't expect you to believe me. Whoever wants to sleep quietly, let him tell the truth. The truth is Vojislav Seselj claims that KIM was lost and that I had nothing more to look for. The truth is that we all talked about Serbian territories and big Serbia, and the truth is that we didn't do it. The truth is I'm asking you now, I'm sorry, and how? That's when we fought the war, and then we thought we'd be able to stay in the territory. Now I ask you, what, which one of you? There's something I don't see that you were involved in the war back then. Which one of you is going to go today and take your children, or report them to go alone, voluntarily, to war, as we Serbian radicals did? Stay away from that. You have your own party, you have your mandates. You deserve them and you have the right to have them. We have our mandates and we deserve them, we have the right to have them. It's all clear here. I just don't think you have any idea where you're going next. You seem to be reading too many 1990 books, and now it's your new ideology. That's not gonna happen. In this world, in which we advocate to have Kosovo left, because we recognise internationally with KIM within our borders, you cannot tell Croatia – we do not recognise your international borders. This can be done by Russia and America, they can have double standards in international law, and we need to barter for Serbia's recognition in the UN. How is Croatia recognised to you? The way she is today. Talk to your Tadic that diplomatic relations with Croatia are reduced to a minimum due to the burning of the Serbian flag, but you cannot discuss that you will arrive at the borders of the great Serbia. Another way to make your utopian idea come true, I don't see it. (During the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13344	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). I remind the People's MPs that they are not allowed to throw away, and I ask you to respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13345	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to member 104. I must note that Tomislav Nikolic once knew the answers to some of the questions he is asking today – how and when we will return the Republic of the Serbian Krajina and, behold, the same situation with Kosovo and Metohija, but he does not know because Vukic did not tell him, and he did not bother to find and see how he would do what he actually decided to do with the SNS. The first interview, following a definitive decision to join the newly founded SNS, Aleksandar Vukic gave for the Zagreb weekly "Globus", titled "We Will Sanadenize Serbia"! So they think they should work, accept the borders of the occupied Republika Srpska. We are aware of these facts, that we fight neither will nor can, but neither France has fought, but it has brought back Alsace and Loren. That's how we think conditions will be created. I can find at least 50 speeches from Tomislav Nikolic in which he repeated this. Now just, again, one simple question – when he was telling the truth, when he wasn't telling the truth, when he believed something, when he didn't believe? These lies, related to Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo and Metohija are lost, are not true. Not to the Bible, but to the church, so nice... What Vojislav Seselj said is the fact that Kosovo and Metohija were kidnapped and not lost, and the SRS will never reconcile with the abduction of Republika Srpska, neither Kosovo nor Metohija. The world's conditions change, and the fact is that things change in favor of all those countries, which, unfortunately, in the last two decades of the 20th century, have experienced the trampling of all international rights, the Charter of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the most difficult experience has been experienced by the Serbian people, but we are convinced that international law will win, that the circumstances will change. Here, we have an undeniable fact that we are announcing the withdrawal of the Americans from Iraq. Something has changed, under public opinion, under the defeats they experience. We might not even be in this situation if for eight years now this ruling majority did not accept all the functions of America and the EU. There would be no Kosovo and Metohija in this situation if they had run a responsible national policy. It wasn't the SRS, it was, first of all, the DS. That's why we're in the situation we're in. Then when we have the responsibility and the ability to implement our policy, we will show. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will recognize it, as they recognize it now. See what happens, those who have so loudly announced the two-party system in Serbia, slowly, every day, collapse, change that ratio of strength, and now, because they want to get their hands on the election at all costs, because they know that every day, every hour, their ratings, they want to get out as soon as possible. As far as the SRS is concerned, we've never run from the election. We will go out whenever they are called, but we will never lie to the citizens of Serbia, we will not flirt, we will not go after voices, we will talk about our politics, our ideology. When they realize that, they will vote for us and we are sure that after that, Serbia will go straight to recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13346	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). The messengers of the people earn, how long will it be? At the meeting of the heads of parliament's groups, a clear agreement was made to make a working continent by 15.20 hours. Since, apparently, we did not respect the agreement, the insistence of MP Ljubomir Kragovic, he gets the word, whether it is transmitted or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13347	I'm sorry, since there's no transmission, I'm giving up my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-27-0.u13348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for today we are finishing the session of the National Assembly, and we will continue tomorrow, at 13 o'clock, because, on our request, we have received notice from RTS that on Wednesday, 28 January 2009, we will not be able to attend a direct transfer of the match to the Second Programme of RTS. People's MPs, I didn't say that today's work was over, nor did I inform you when we're going to begin tomorrow's session, so please, if you're interested in this information, take your seats. Thank you. At the end of the match, RTS would be involved in the transfer of work to the Assembly by 20 hours, so for today we are completing the work and determining the continuation of work tomorrow, 28 January 2009, at 13 p.m., by discussion in particular, by application and order of MPs. The first, in turn, is the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Nikola Krpić, Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, Riza Halimi, Laslo Varga, Nikola Novakovic and Sava Čočić. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL PARTIES OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS (continuing) During yesterday's working day, we met in a debate in accordance with the order of the National MPs, and according to the application for a single debate on the proposal for a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, by the fact that the MP Dragan Stevanovic expressed his wish to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to receive words on the basis of Article 100(1).
