ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29953	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Dr Pai Momchilov has been authorised on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29954	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the final account of the NIS, the first to be handed over, was a profit... Madam President, please, if you could just shut up a little bit, I really can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29955	Gentlemen of the Parliament, please let's hear from a colleague of the Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29956	I suppose that's a bit boring for some, but I have to say, in the first final account that was handed over by NIS, the profits were two billion dinars. The audit made by the Russian partner says the loss is eight billion dinars. The super audit, which was carried out, says that at least eight billion dinars is a loss. 90m euros went missing somewhere. In the year when Serbia charged 400m dinars from the mining rent, it lost eight billion from NIS, or 90m euros. The loss of "Srbigas" – 170m euros, 35m euros went to Jugorosgas. I have to ask the president of the NIS Shareholders' Assembly, otherwise, the Energy Minister, Mr Skundric – is anyone responsible for this? What about the board of directors who ran NIS by the end of last year, while NIS was owned by the Serbian state? What about the director of NIS? You guys are aware, 90 million euros! We were counting. It is, Mr. Ilic, if there is, 10 million vaccines. How many pensions is that? Those three thousand people that we discussed the other day, about the reduction in public service, might have kept the job if someone had run the energy sector in the right way. Once again, I am undermining 400 million dinars from mines, and 90m euros from NIS in losses. "Srbigas" - 170m euros. We paid Jugorosgas 35m euros for the commission. Is it possible that citizens will suffer this loss, through the prices of constantly jumping gasoline and constantly jumping fuel? I have to ask the question of the responsible in this country - will the citizens bear it or is someone responsible for such a loss? Or might there be an opportunity to increase the stakes of Russian, or Russian, in NIS? That's my question, Minister of Energy. A question for the Prime Minister – will the NIS monopoly be extended due to these losses? Madam President, this is the topic we've been talking about for a year and this is a topic that we've only been getting one answer on for a year, which is silence. So someone's responsible and someone has to answer. People are going to jail for the fish's tepsy. Someone pushed NIS into a 90m-euro loss within only two months. In October, NIS was 20th on the success of European companies, at profit. In two months, such a loss. Last year the price of oil was high, everyone had profits, all the companies that deal with fuel. You have such a problem over this country. Someone who runs this country, first of all, that energy sector, has also put citizens in a position to bear the consequences because the fuel price is increasing. We will discuss here in a few days whether it will stand – Novi Sad, the main or administrative center of the province's organs. The citizens of Novi Sad are much more interested which is why the company that was the bearer of this city's development is in such a loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29957	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29958	Dear President, I have a question, first of all, for you. In order not to waste my time, the whole of Serbia knows what I'm going to ask. I'll repeat in 30 seconds. The Director of the Government of the EU Association Office, Belgrade Mayor and Councilors of the President of the Republic for the last four years, with marketing operations, have received over 500m euros, i.e. on average, per day, over 500,000 euros. 34 days ago I asked a question about this, that the competent institutions and authorities were to check that this was possible, that this was correct, that everything was legal. I am now asking you, since in the announcement of the autumn session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have apostrophe and supervisory role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to control, above all, the implementation of the law by you and the National Assembly. I think the data I'm presenting is about corruption, and we've passed a lot of laws that are about corruption, or preventing corruption. Please tell us here and the citizens of Serbia publicly what you have done about the clearly ignoring attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the individual ministers to whom I have asked questions and who do not want to answer them. We were recently witnesses here, when Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic visited, that he had one of the questions I asked him, which are all these questions, said he knew the answer but that he would not answer. I would like to remind you that in the spring session, in my famous question of building a playground for people with disabilities, you have publicly mentioned Minister of Youth and Sports Mrs. Markovic. I ask, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia and on behalf of the MPs, and believe that everyone here, especially from the ruling coalition, wants an answer to this question. At least nine DS deputies came to me individually and said they would especially like to hear the answer to these questions. So, I'm asking you, what are you going to do? Is the first step not to make a selection of similar and inadequate ministers, so that all of these ministers I have asked, headed by the Prime Minister, may you give a public notice from that place, as you did to Mrs Snezani Markovic, Minister for Youth and Sports? It's the least you have to do to protect the dignity and integrity of this congregation. We've been witnessing these days that there aren't enough respirators, that we don't know how many beds there are, and everything about this new flu. I say, I think most Serbian citizens think there's enough money not to be 700,000 hungry, but that so-called. Social distribution, maybe this is a term of some self-government time, but I don't know a better, unfair one. I want to remind you and your ruling coalition that you won one of the slogans - "Social Justice". Where is "social justice" here that some do not have, not some, but 700,000 people are on the verge of hunger, and some earn 500 thousand euros a day with 11 employees? Or, let someone deny what I'm saying, and this is the data from the Agency's business register website, so, the state authority, this is not a political pamphlet, these are all numbered figures. I want to encourage the media and the press not to come near me with their heads bowed down in the Assembly's rooms to say they're guilty, but they're under pressure, especially at the Public Service, because they need to fire 600 workers there. So, I call on the Public Service because it is paid by Serbian citizens to schedule a show, to ask these people -- how can they earn tens of millions of euros with 11 employees? That it's a private company with a private company, that we all commend, but they cooperate, they co-operated with public companies. This sucks out the budget, the money of Serbian citizens, and invests in some marketing, political promotions of parties and individuals. Therefore, Madam President, the least you have to do right now is give public notice to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and all ministers who refuse to answer these questions. I've received answers from several organizations who can't answer all of them, people's words, shush-mush, so they can't answer. I call on the public friend Rodoljub Sabic, the Information Commissioner, because the legal conditions have been met to start a man doing his job because it is being paid by Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29959	Thank you. On several occasions, your expressed doubts have been passed on to the competent ministries and the government. We will do so this time, but given that you should get the answers from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Information and some other ministries, we will now focus not only on the Government, but we will focus your questions specifically this time and express your doubts about all the ministries that can give serious answers. Whether you will be satisfied with these answers, in that segment you really cannot enter, but surely, professional services and myself, we will do it again today. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the SRS a question to the government of Mr Mirko Cvetkovic and the Ministry of Health – how is it possible that there has been such a degree of public disturbance over the current situation with the threatening influenza epidemic caused by the H1N1 virus? You've all witnessed the last few days of what's been going on, and when I talk about anxiety, I'm thinking about a few things. First, why was there a delay in applying prevention measures, vaccinations? I will be free to remind you that the WHO statement of November 5th made it clear that 5,700 people have died from this flu since July in the world. Furthermore, it is clear that this pandemic is rapidly spreading and will rule the world, and we have also been told a long time ago about the dangers of the flu epidemic in our country. I would be free to remind you of Mr. Cone's exposure, the president of the epidemic monitoring commission, which in the article in the "Blic" list said nicely: "Epidemia is inevitable", even free to say that two million of our citizens will suffer from this virus. The other thing I would like to explain is the contradictory information provided to the public by medical professionals who are not allowed. You have a situation in Belgrade today that schools don't work, and in Novi Sad, children's institutions work. So in the same country, thanks to this vague information, you have a different situation. What's interesting is that Mr. Minister here allowed himself a rude violation of human rights when he ordered that parents' signatures be sought from preschool institutions who did not want to vaccinate their children, and even in one interview, he said that he would seek these signatures and from citizens who received the vaccine, which further disturbs our public. What is not allowed is that adequate information is not provided by the Commission on vaccines at all. It is known that the best and most effective "dead split vaccine", without ajuvants, should be told to the citizens, not afraid of blurred stories. In the end, we have to mention yesterday's scandalous tender, which was obviously staged. Why was that tender set up? First, why wasn't that tender public? Why was there no advertising, to register those who could participate in the tender, and such producers in the world have 20? We weren't able to make our own vaccine at this point, I'll say a few words and why, but it's not allowed to be one monopolies, Miskovic and "Delti", let them distribute the vaccine. For what? We have a WHO licensed distributor, sixth in the world of 60 apps. Torlak has been granted a WHO licence for the distribution of vaccines. Imagine a country that skips an authorised distributor and gives some Miskovic the right to get rich! What else is inadmissible and scandalous about the whole thing? The Chinese vaccine is the best of all offered, and of this Novartis, which is twice as expensive. If it's twice as expensive, why is it the best? Because the split vaccine is dead, there's no ajuvant. Those adjuvants, those supplements make complications that people are afraid of. But what's wrong? They did not have bank guarantees and was not confirmed in the EU. Well, of course, China's not in Europe, she's got confirmation of her medicine agency. That vaccine would be tested in our agency, according to our laws. That's the way it has to be. According to this, the government has to plead. What she's doing, it's an additional threat to the nation's biological integrity, and she has to account for the people of Serbia, not the Parliament, for what she's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29961	Thank you. We have information that the epidemiological situation at this point is not the same in all parts of Serbia, and healthcare professionals and doctors have an obligation to provide the right information and not to use the health status of citizens for political purposes. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic. What's the basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29962	I wanted to replicate to you, if you'll excuse me. For the sake of political correctness and political honesty, I have called the owls' speakers until the construction of a playground for disabled people is completed and I am a little nervous about your attitude here. That's the G17 minister who did it according to the Rules of Procedure, answered my question and built that playground, and when I ask 35 days about DS members, you have two criteria. So, you have made a public note to Minister Markovic from that place, and these people I called here, or ministers, especially because the prime minister, sitting in front of you, said he knows the answer to that question, but he won't answer, you're not. In my case, this raises further suspicion that you are selecting, or politically selecting, some ministers. Some may be publicly warned about what they didn't do, and I want to point out that because of the personal attitude, both political and human, and for some ministers who are from the DS, people who are from the DS and people who are in the President's office, you get into that circuit and protect them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29963	My only minister is the Minister of Health, because I'm a doctor and a health worker. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29964	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me, Madam President, that you should not boast that your only minister of health is your only minister of health. It's not good for you, and here, you'll hear why when I ask this question. So, I suggested, it was not adopted, that a special session of parliament be held in connection with the influenza pandemic H1N1. A question for the Government and the Minister of Health – why is no tender called under the Public Procurement Act? First, the vaccine could be obtained cheaper, by definition and logic, and secondly, could be obtained in a timely manner, because what it means is that the last two tranches will arrive at the end of February, or at the end of March. Until then, who lives, who dies. The answer was that, apparently, there were no vaccines and couldn't be bought before. Well, then how was it discovered yesterday that Novartis' vaccine vaccinated 42 million people when it wasn't there? Secondly, how in July did Slovenia buy from the company Glaxo Smith Klein 1.3 million doses of vaccines at the price of seven euros per vaccine? Now in the media, it's wrong to say that yesterday was a tender, that there were tenders. It's a lie. There were no tenders, but three addresses were sent to send these companies an offer and reportedly the only correct offer was "Norvatis". Furthermore, Mr Tiodorovic, a member of the H1N1 Working Group on 26 October, said the price of the vaccine would be between 6 and 7 euros. Yesterday, the same man, Maltene, said in a speech that we received it cheaply, at 8.45 euros. The difference, at 3 million doses of the vaccine, is 4.5m euros. Next question, we are approaching the finale of this issue, what is the commission of "Yugochemy Farmation", a representative, or distributor "Norvatis"? I don't know if it's true, they say it is, that the majority owner of Jugochemy Farms is Miskovic. I don't know. I'm looking for an answer to that question. Listen to this, do you know who was the biggest donor of the political party G17 in 2004? The largest donor is "Yugochemy-farmation". Maybe it's a coincidence. I don't know, but I don't believe in coincidence anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29965	Your question will be forwarded to the government and the resolution ministry. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29966	Mr Batic, unlike you, G17 plus has always lectured transparent financial reports, with donor names, both legal and physical. I responsibly argue, as former party director, that "Yugochemy" has never been a donor or a sponsor of my party. You can check that out. The Finance Committee has all the documentation from the moment G 17 plus became a party, since the end of 2003 until today. I ask you not to make such a lie, as it is not quite appropriate for you and your position to add such false questions as these.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29967	Mr. Batic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29968	It's wonderful how the head of the parliamentary group responds to the truth with lies. Here's how, "Blic", September 29, 2005, page 4, and you can see that on your party's website, you don't need "Blic". So, what it says in "Blica" of 29 September, and the data was downloaded from the site of experts from G 17 plus: "I last year donated the company "Yugochemy Pharmacy", from Belgrade, with modest 225 thousand, and 200 thousand dinars were allocated by the company "Lek NS" D.O.O.O. from Novi Sad's. Some of these drug companies are major donors to you, but it is not a problem, but some private faces, Branko Drsanovic from Loznica, your former Member Nadika Momirov, etc. So this is official data. This is not a lie, this is the truth, and I expect your apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29969	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29970	Thank you, Madam President. What all of us citizens ask the most is what awaits us next and next years. What we as MPs of the National Assembly cannot say is that in economic terms it will look next year, for the simple reason that the budget, although it should have long been in the Serbian Parliament, has not yet arrived. What is safe and only certain is that next year, wages and pensions will be frozen and inflation is expected to be around 5% next year and GDP growth is about 1 to 1.5%. What about the pensions they'll be in years to come? This is an integral part of the arrangement and is negotiating with the IMF; pension policy and reform of the pension insurance system is an integral part of the arrangement with the IMF. The government's deputy prime minister in charge of reforming the pension system, the president of the PUPS party, says the next years of pensions will be brought into line with profit growth. The signator of an arrangement with the IMF, Radovan Jelasic, and the finance minister say it is not true. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has a neutral response. Serbia currently has a million and seven hundred thousand pensioners. More than 14% of Serbia's population is over 65 years old. It is absolutely incorrect to create a picture in public that pensioners are responsible for what will await us in the coming years and that the future of the country depends solely on whether these people, who have earned their pensions, who have made them according to the laws of this country, will receive pensions or not. What exactly is the deal with the IMF? If we listen carefully to Governor Jelasic, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic and IMF representatives, they clearly and unequivocally say that pensions are agreed to be coordinated exclusively to inflation in the coming years; in the event that GDP growth is greater than 3% after 2011, pensions are adjusted for growth of more than 3%. What is most important, Governor Jelasic said at a press conference after the negotiations were concluded, is that by 2015, the share of pensions in GDP will be reduced from 13%, as it is today, to 10%. So, by almost 30%, there's going to be a lot of pensions less in the next five years. If it is known that we are facing very mild growth, if it is known that every year the number of pensioners is increasing, if it is known that our country is, unfortunately, among the oldest in the world, then it is clear that this is possible only by making pensions first unrequited by the rate of inflation, and that after that, the mass of pensions will be drastically reduced, hence pensions. The World Bank has done one study, and it is just warning that this approach is not good, because, in the long run, pensions will reach 9% of the average salary. The study is called "How to achieve more with less". The basic question is: why do the highest state officials create confusion among all of us, not just pensioners, but all of Serbia's citizens? If Radovan Jelasic and Diana Dragutinovic, the governor of the NBS and the finance minister, claim one thing, Deputy Prime Minister Krkobic has the diametric opposite, Mirko Cvetkovic has a completely neutral stance, then who in Serbia knows what is agreed? We can't ask the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic for everything, what's the deal with the IMF. Our question for the Prime Minister and the governor of the NBS is very simple – what is agreed on about pension policy with the IMF?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29971	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, and then the Rules of Procedure advertise Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29972	President-in-Office, member 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have injured the dignity of the National Assembly. I have no intention of apologizing to someone who's constantly telling lies about my party, I don't think I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29973	Please use appropriate terms and you and all the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29974	I'm sorry, I was just quoting that term from the previous speaker, so you can take that as a quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29975	It's the same thing to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29976	You didn't warn him. So I don't think I'm going to apologize for something that's been known as a lie for years. There are parties that meet their obligations in order, in accordance with the Party Finance Act, and deliver their reports. Never, but never, never, as a member of the Finance Committee, was I able to see the financial report of the party of the gentleman concerned. Please stop him, just like you did me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29977	Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29978	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for a word to clarify some things. I'll be very brief. I respect your comment on my presentation, but I'm afraid you haven't realized the point. I urged the government to answer the questions I asked. The central question is the role of "Torlak". If "Torlak" has not been trained since 2000 to make a quality vaccine, thanks to the lack of material resources provided by the EU and the European Bank, 20m euros are at stake and waiting to be activated, if we do not already have our own vaccine, and there is Hungary, which could have been produced by a private company, this new vaccine, then why is the right to distribute, when we have already been licensed by the World Health Organization? "Tarlak" has obtained this right to license, and is given to an imaginary firm, which is completely unclear to me. What I'm saying is, that's what I end up with, please, you said that I've kind of abused this subject for political purposes. No, I am a politician, you are a politician, whether you feel like it or not, I think it's the job of a politician in this home to control the government. Parliament's control function is precisely to deal with life's problems. If I were in London, as I was last week, with a delegation, the minister would be answering my question today. Every day answers half an hour of questions from ministers in the British Parliament, and there is a cradle of parliamentary democracy, while once a week you have a prime minister. So, if it's politics -- it's politics, just tell me if it's a dishonest policy, and I say it's a political task, and I don't feel hurt at all by saying that I've been giving a political speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29979	Mr. Marash, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29980	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Article 27. You have allowed this to go to dialogue between you and the MPs and between the MPs themselves in the day when the parliamentary questions are asked. In accordance with Article 27, you should take care of the order at the session and conduct the session. I know you're gonna say you're keeping her in line with the Rules of Procedure, but she's not. We're here listening to populist stories. We calculated, eight billion or 90m euros -- 10 million vaccines could be bought at the latest price. Let's not talk about it anymore. Someone is this country, or government that led and the people who set it up, have made the country miserable for big money. No one's responsible. That's not true. Someone has to answer, and then we'd avoid this kind of discussion as we've heard before.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29981	Mr. Maras, thank you for the idea to minimise the replicas, but Article 235 does not exclude the possibility of replicas. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but if you're not satisfied, we can do it in voting day. You won't. Okay. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Excuse me, please, Irregular injury, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29982	Madam President, Article 104. I know the truth hurts. I haven't told a lie. As part of my parliamentary question, I found that the largest individual donor of the political party G17 plus in 2004, it is official data that can be found on the site, was the company "Yugochemy Pharmacy"; I did not make an illusion at all whether it had anything to do with the acquisition of vaccines from the Swiss company "Novartis", whose representative, or distributor, "Yugochemy Pharmacy". That's the facts. As for Mrs Grubjesic's quote, the DHSS has been neatly delivering financial reports to the financial committee responsible for finance; this can also be verified through an insight into the Finance Committee's website. DHSS has no sponsorship among the tycoons. It may be our fault, but what do we do when we're like that? Furthermore, DHSS did not have an affair with some banks in Hungary in connection with money laundering and was not a member or friend of the DHSS head of UBOPK, who covered up the affair. So much for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29983	Mr. Nikolic, please sign up again to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29984	Thank you for getting my word after all. I don't think you're having a good session, but I don't keep in charge of warning you, you do whatever you want. I have two questions. One's next. The Serbian Progressive Party has scheduled the Assembly for Sunday, starting at 10pm at the "Sava" Centre, and I need a notice – will there be a ban on gatherings or not, as delegates come from all over Serbia; there are renting buses, creating some kind of debt-confident relationship? We need to know whether the state is preparing to ban the gatherings or not? Will our reunion finally be allowed once? To remind those who decide that we should have held a meeting on October 18th, so we are banned, because at the time of the arrival of President Medvedev, three days before and three days later, no meetings are allowed. Then she was on her way to 19, singing calmly. I guess it wasn't a threat to the president of the Russian Federation. Please forward urgently to the Commission which will decide our question – will public gatherings be banned, so that we know how to organise ourselves further? Would that mean the Assembly won't work anymore? The second question is this. On Saturday, Germany marked its big day, 20 years from the destruction of the Berlin Wall. I suppose for most of Europe, it was also an opportunity for celebration. The day was also marked in Belgrade, a gala concert at the Sava Centre, under the auspices of some sponsors, and, of course, it was a public service. I have a question for the president of the Republic of Serbia -- why did he take advantage of that day to humiliate and hurt Serbia if he didn't already think he did the same thing with the Russian Federation? Namely, President Boris Tadic used the rally to give a long speech, saying that the destruction of the Berlin Wall was the destruction of the wall between democracy and dictatorship, forgetting that the wall had been erected by all the world states, which they thought was necessary at that time to completely destroy the seeds of evil that ruled Europe. When the time came to be torn down, they knocked him down, and it's none of our business. He then said that on October 5th, the same wall was brought down in Serbia. This placed Serbia in dictatorial countries until October 5th, just days before the International Court of Justice ruling on whether Kosovo could be an independent state, while the main asset is so-called. Kosovo's independent states in the fight for independence that they lived in a dictatorship, in which they were completely disproved, and are called for a precedent, the court's case-law, which found that people who have been completely deprived of human rights, who live in dictatorship, have the right to initiate a procedure to create their own state and have the right to be recognised by that state. I ask you, all of you who lead this Serbia, now, as publicly as you lead it - refrain from accusing your country only because at the time you accuse it you were not in power. Yesterday I listened to a debate about who was in the government and when someone proposed a bill and whether it was the one that affected it or not, or whether it was just helping to rule in that coalition, or whether it was a direct decision. Once again, please show a little more concern for the country and the people. Serbia was not a dictatorship until the DOS came to power. If you mean it intimately within yourself, keep that opinion, but that is not the opinion that the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, can deliver, the one who represents us in The Hague. I'm already hearing the hints of these MPs of ours, who are talking about Serbia being a dictatorship. So I ask Serbian President Boris Tadic -- what is his goal, which would satisfy him with the ruling in The Hague, whether the ruling that Albanians have the right to independence, or by ruling that Serbia has the right to KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29985	He has the word Mr. Djuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29986	Mr. Obradovic raised one issue concerning talks with the IMF. It is precisely because of the contradictory statements that were made in public some time ago, and this is likely to continue, that yesterday, as a parliamentary group, we had a meeting in the government with Vice-President Krkobbic, where we received a presentation of the government's conclusions on what was really agreed at the time. In that sense, we are presented with what he said publicly about it. I fully agree that it is here to deliver what is really agreed, that the Government presents to the Assembly this real result, not what appears in public after the talks, contradictoryly, which everyone declares in their own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29987	He has the word Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29988	I'll say it very briefly. What I quote in favour of asking questions is the current monetary macroeconomic policy, the Radovan Jelasic Press Conference on November 5th, which you have on the NB site, where he explicitly speaks about what I said. The second thing is the report the World Bank made at the request of the finance ministry, where it is also explicitly said -- Serbia, how to do more with less. The rest are statements we're all aware of. On such an important matter, it is important to present the facts before the MPs of the congregation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29989	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. I am informing you of the absence of the Members of the People. They were prevented from attending MPs: Momo Colaković, Sinisa Stamenković, Milica Radovic, Željko Tomic, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of proposing Milan Markovic, the state administration minister and local self-government, called for the session to be attended by Zoran Petrovic, an assistant minister. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON A SINGLE PURPOSE (the sequel in principle) here you go, Mr. Minister. There's a word for Gordan Rajkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29990	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have returned to the debate on the draft law on the single electoral list, above all, I would like to say that the G17 Group will support the adoption of this law, because it should ensure the accuracy and urgency of this data and in a unique manner regulate this area. What I would like to talk about in this debate is a member of the 15th law, which provides for the introduction of the possibility of voting in the place of residence, which several MPs voiced some concerns and concerns yesterday. On the other hand, I would like to point to those groups of citizens who, for the first time in many years, will be able to finally exercise their civil rights and participate in the elections. In addition to various other groups, in which Mr. Minister mentioned students yesterday, I would like to mention people who have long stayed in institutions for a long time outside their place of residence, such as old persons or persons with disabilities. An example of this, which I have been trying to present for two years, is the House of Adults Disabilities "Dragisa Vitosevic" at Bezanski Kosa in Zemun. There are 24 people staying in this home with disabilities from 18 municipalities across Serbia, some of whom are 400km away from Belgrade. Also, there are 56 people with disabilities with 13 Belgrade municipalities, including suburban municipalities, such as Grocka, Barajevo, Obrenovac and Lazarevic. This means that only in this one, relatively small institution, 80 citizens and citizens of Serbia cannot exercise their basic electoral right. It is clear that people who stay in long-term accommodations have some difficulty in moving, cannot go to their place of residence on the day of the election, because it requires special transportation, requires help, requires additional resources and, of course, none of them can achieve it. I would also remind myself that in Serbia about 10,000 of our older citizens only resides in state homes for old people's accommodations, and we know that there are private ones, of which, about 8,000 of these persons, actually have no place of residence or of the territory of which these homes are located. Practically, 8,000 people in these homes can't achieve this right. Otherwise, we have a habit of forgetting that people go to such a home. They don't stop being citizens of this country, and they're interested in what's happening in the country, and they want to affect these things as much as they can. To make things more absurd, before each election, there is almost no political party that suddenly doesn't start visiting these nursing homes, or homes of people with disabilities, having conversations, watching what they can do to help them, and, yes, these people don't really have the opportunity to express their preferences in the elections. For this reason, I think it is necessary that this proposal of Article 15 remain that way in law. If there are any misunderstandings or misunderstandings, further discussions can be specified and clarified, of course, I suppose that can be done. I really stand for it, because of tens of thousands of our citizens who will be allowed for the first time to use their electoral rights, to vote for that provision. The G17 Plus Parliament Club will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29991	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29992	Just to thank you for deepening the discussion on Article 15 and to assure you that this member will surely remain with our fellow citizens in the country. So all of us will be allowed to vote in the place of residence in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29993	Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, the minister, Mr Markovic, said in a replica to one of the MPs, and on the subject of the bill on the single electoral list, that everyone in this hall was in power and that he had the opportunity to pass this or this law. In order to remind the public, Mr Markovic, on a proposal from the SRS, a Law on the selection of MPs was passed in October 2000. This law, with some minor corrections, applies day and day. That law has brought two, let me say, revolutionary democratic fluids. One is a unique voter's list, the other is the board of directors. At the time when the law was passed, the SRS succeeded something that had not gone hand in hand with the proposal of this law and its adoption – we united both the government and the opposition. We did the same thing in 1993, when we were able to act to pass a law in which Serbia is one electoral unit. You, like your colleague, the minister of justice, went into reform, where, without any cover, you boast in public that, by amending these electoral laws and laws that are accompanied by electoral laws, you will change political life in Serbia. Mr. Markovic, first of all, some things in this regard are being done contrary to Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the recognition of the role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens. You want these reforms to push out political parties in every way, which is completely abnormal in democratic societies and in parliamentary democracy. That's what we have in that bill of yours on local elections, that's what we have in your announcement of a law on the state election commission. I don't just know how you plan to overcome Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees a proportional system at the republican level. You're already announcing that you're going to change this law. Of course, this is all some sort of introduction to the debate on this law, the bill on a single voter's list. We'll talk about these others when the time comes. Article 12. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs says -- in the Republic of Serbia, a general polling list is being conducted by municipalities as part of a single connected system. Yesterday you said this didn't mean a unique voter list. Ministers, it is clear and loud that this law has already foreseen the existence of a single electoral list. What's the problem? The problem is that in nine years, you have not technically prepared yourself to form a single electoral list, not because you are not capable, not because you do not know it, but because it does not suit you, as in the last nine years neither the Supervisory Board has functioned in any parliamentary or presidential elections. That obligation exists in law. The problem is that in 2000, prior to the adoption of this law, during the election campaign, during the work, then, RIK, members of the RIK who represented the SRS fought bloodyly to make a single voter's list, to actively include the supervisory board in the election campaign. What is most interesting, representatives of your political party, the DS, then as part of the DOS, absolutely supported the members of the RIK of the SRS. Since 2003, Mr. Zoran Krasic and I, in the extended composition of the RIK, have reminded and quoted what Maja Vasic, who was then, after 2003, the head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic, said Biserka Zivkovic, wife, later, Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Every debate they had at the time began with – we agree with the attitude of colleagues from the SRS. The problem is inconsistencies, Mr. Minister. What you're talking about and what you stand for when you're in opposition, you should apply when you come to power, but unfortunately, that's not how you do it. You don't do that because these and the other laws you're preparing, in fact, you want to put, you from the Democratic Party, I don't mean personally, but the Democratic Party wants to put their paws on the election will of the citizens. That's inadmissible. You of these laws, in fact, want to keep the election process absolutely under your control and make the election results in some of the next elections as appropriate to the Democratic Party. The law on a single polling list should never have been passed at all. This doesn't mean we don't need a single polling list. On the contrary, we need it. In these nine years, Mr. Markovic, you could have done it a long time ago, not to wait nine years; at the time of the first government, you could have provided technical conditions for the formation of a single polling list. So, we have it in the law, but you haven't made an effort, you didn't have a wish, you didn't have a need, because you don't have a single vote list, you don't get the right state in the elections, and all the elections so far, you admitted it yesterday, Mr. Markovic, all the choices you call democratic were illegal and illegal, because we didn't have a unique vote list. We of the SRS have spoken and advocated this since the founding of the party, but we do not change our opinion. We're consistent. Every time after the elections, members of the RIK, members of the SRS, made objections and did not sign the RIK report, explaining that there is no legitimacy until there is no single voter list. After each election, we filed a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has, for the past nine years, shown, on many occasions, that it defends not the Constitution, but the interests of the Democratic Party. What you have presented to us as the law on the single voter list, Mr. Markovic, is a unique voter list only in the title of the law. In the text of the bill, there is no "j" of the single electoral list. We will again have a set of electoral lists per unit of local self-government, which will be united as it is today. The proof of this is that, in this law, the proposal says that the voter lists will, at some point, conclude the units of local self-government when we speak in detail about the members. Where's the unique polling list? It is again a collection of notebooks that will one day, 72 hours or no matter how much before the elections, will be physically brought from all over Serbia to RIK. The meaning of the existence of a single electoral list is not what you tried to explain yesterday, that someone might not vote on the day of the election, but in the place of their current residence, because you, my God, are making sure that students can vote, as if the students could not vote until now, as if all citizens could not vote where their place of residence is, and you did not hold that vote in the place of residence until the end of the vote. You have seen, if you have seen the amendments, that we have warned you with amendments that and if you think so, if you are going to do so, it must refer to all voters in Serbia. You mention again in this law the special voter lists of soldiers, the special voter lists of prisoners. Where's the unique polling list? Yesterday, you, in line with one of your fellow MPs, said that one cannot be entered twice, that it should be included in the list of elections, both in the place of residence and in the place of residence. Mr. Minister, that's not what it says here. The problem is, it doesn't say here. You probably think so. I have to tell you, I'm personally surprised that you're representing this proposal, because we've talked on the subject of the single voter list several times, we've had pretty uniform views on how it should look, and what it should essentially be a unique list of voters. The unique voter list, Mr Markovic, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, should mean that you can check your data in the electoral list at the same time and in Leposavic, and in Somboro, and in Kragujevac, and in Nis, and in the Sava Venice, and in every part, every local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We do not have such a possibility in this bill of yours today, because you do not make such a unique list, or you are not planning a single list at all. Where is your connection between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Mr. Minister? That's what you were supposed to do technically, and that's to regulate it by regulation, not by law. Every data, every change in address, status, every change that happens at the Ministry of the Interior must be transferred to that unique voter list at the same time. You don't predict it with this law. Once again, it will be possible for people whose deaths are reported in one municipality, or in one of the MUPs, to remain listed in the voter list, for example, where they were born, if they did not die in the place where they were born, there will again be a fact that for someone who is registered in one place, and has not gone to apply to the local self-government in the electoral list, there will be no automatic copying. There is no electronic connection, first of all, no networking between local self-government, then further, between the interior ministry and local self-government. It is the simplest and any understandable way to make a unique voter list. Yesterday, you also spoke very interestingly about small polling stations, about someone having a need to change the place of residence at the time of some elections, because, I don't know, it's about small polling stations, it's about a small number of people in one polling place. You, Mr. Markovic, act as if Serbia is only Belgrade, and that circle of two. Serbia has every village on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and it has villaged, Mr Markovic, which your dossage authority has destroyed to the point where you have between 20 and 50 old people waiting to end their lives in your village. You expect them to sign up on the Internet to come to vote, say, in a town closest to them, and they can't even go to a polling station that might be in a store or school, which is much closer to that polling place that you might have predicted for them. That's what you explained yesterday. You must take care, Mr Milan Markovic, if you will and if you truly advocate parliamentary democracy, for democratic principles, if not done by colleagues before you, then you should have done so immediately, in the first term. You were at a time when you were an opposition MP very often spoke about Serbia's lack of a single voter's list. Remember that affair in RIK, when Bakarec took that famous disk with the united voter lists from all over Serbia? Do you remember what number of voters were then talked about, how many more were listed in the voter list? Now, with your proposal for a single polling list law, there will be many more people on the voter list than the actual number of voters in Serbia, as will be a large number of those who will not be able to vote, and they voted in the previous elections. Every time elections are held, whether parliamentary or presidential, I can give you information that we regularly and neatly call in at least a hundred people who claim to have voted in the previous elections, and this is not where they are now, are not listed in the voter's list. It is also interesting that people who had such problems in the previous period were mostly people who had displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, or avoided and exiled persons, who in the meantime received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. Isn't that a bit symptomatic to you, that it was also a political uncle and your judgment, I don't think of you personally, that such people are reluctant to vote for the DS? Mr. Markovic, you cannot deceive MPs with such bill proposals, because here there are those of us who know the electoral process well, you know that, who have participated in election processes, from members of the electoral committee to members of the RIK. All you had to do was sort out all the problems, the life problems that were going on and we met in all the electoral processes, to have legal and legitimate all future elections. I'll talk about deadlines when I speak individually about members, probably, in the follow-up debate, now I'm only talking about what really are the problems that draw attention to the fact that this law is one big delusion. You have not written in any single member of the proposal for this law that there is a law on a single voter's list. You probably had some kind of public discussion. With who? With writers of this law. These are CESID members and other NGOs. All of what you're trying through these suggestions and these changes in political life, the political way you talk about in public, is to eliminate political parties from political life, and to introduce NGOs into political life. That's what I told you at one of those public debates, but I don't want to use time for that right now, so we'll talk about that when it comes to the agenda of that law whose legal debate I took part in. So, you can't have some kind of solution that someone puts you in this way to present. You will now boast and the President of Parliament will boast that this is not the law that Parliament has passed. You will, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Read the proposal. If this proposal means a unique voter list, then I can't read and interpret the law. (President: Time. Would you like time from your MP's group, to proceed? No, I'll do it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29995	Mr. Minister Milan Markovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29996	Mrs. Radeta, I really expected a different discussion. At times, we didn't seem to have the same bill as you and I. First, one lie and I don't know why you said it. I've made it very clear here, based on the analysis we've done, that there can be no question of the legitimacy of any choice so far. I said it yesterday, I'll do it again. So, we've run an analysis, the voter list is such that we can't dispute the legitimacy of all the elections so far, and we need a new electoral list, a voter list as a single base, for a thousand reasons, and one of these reasons is that no one would report back, I don't know who, and manipulated and insinuated that the results of the election are not good, when I say again, they're good. In particular, we have created a single pilot project, a single polling list in ten municipalities, including Belgrade, and an update in municipalities ranged between 98% and 99%, so there is no dilemma that our voter list, as far as content is concerned, is correct enough that we cannot speak of any illegality of our choices. Once upon a time, this whole MP group of yours is as if it's multiplied by minus one. Everything is so negative, everything is so dark, you throw, you insult, you're very strange and you're heavy. I don't understand why. If Mr. Krasic has problems, he needs to solve them somewhere else, not throw them to me, because I can't do it like this. You won't work unless the Ministry's representative is present. (President: Please do not disturb Mr. Minister by throwing.) You can't expect the ministers to sit here without you insulting them. You are, however, one smaller parliamentary group and a smaller party and you cannot take such a right. There are many larger parliamentary groups here, many larger political parties, and if anyone needs a voice to be heard, theirs will be heard. Yours, with your election results, cannot be heard as much as you insist. As far as the election results are concerned, the election results depend exclusively on the will of the citizens. Your election results are the result of your work. You're saying some citizens from some village should sign up for the Internet. Who said they should sign up for the Internet? Where did you even find in the law that you were supposed to sign up on the Internet for a voter's list? Then you don't know the basics. How can you sign up on the Internet to be on the polling list? You just said that, literally. You're saying I want to force the political parties out. No, I want to give the citizens the right that belongs to them in a democratic society, which is to choose their own representatives. The political party cannot choose, instead of the citizens, its representatives in Parliament. Who wants to be a representative in Parliament, local or republican, should be named and named to appear in front of citizens and should be a citizen to know who he voted for, not to choose 249 from the list to be a representative of citizens in parliament. So that's my attitude and I stand for it. It's not any push of political parties, it's a democratic principle that exists in all democratic societies. Unfortunately, Serbia, although it is a democratic society, still does not have such an electoral system, but citizens vote for the party, and the party chooses on their behalf, name and last name, who will be their representative. Where else is that? You're asking where the connection between the Ministry of State and the local self-government is? In Article 11(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: So you haven't read. Therefore, Article 11(2) clearly states that the information from the official records on the residence and residence of citizens, based on changes in the electoral list, is provided by electronic means to the Ministry of Administration within the time limit set out in Article 1(1). Also, I'd like to inform you that we have a pilot project here too, and we're going to establish a direct electronic connection to this data very soon with the MUP. You're asking who's closing the voter list? It's in article 17. What unit of local self-government concludes the voter list? I don't really know what law you read. You're saying it's a special voter's list for soldiers. Where did you find this, or don't you know a copy of the voter's list and a voter's list? Where did you find a special ballot for the soldiers? You say, "You had a public debate there with someone, and in the following sentence you say that you yourself attended a public debate." You're contradictory. Every political party represented in parliament has been invited to a public debate, not just political parties, everyone is invited. It was a huge public debate. I don't understand what's bothering who's gonna be able to vote around the place. It is simply not normal for its own citizens to be denied the right to vote towards the place of residence. You ask where it says it. It says here that a copy of the electoral list cannot find a face that is located in one place, in the place of residence on another. It's in the law. It's like we haven't read the same law. It's only important to be negative, negative, negative. Your 2000 law was so good, it doesn't say a single body runs the voter's list. Bring your law to see all together, us 250, which body runs the electoral list in the Republic of Serbia. You mention the state election commission. RIK is a concept that needs to be changed and that's my opinion, I'm a minister. When you come to power, you make such an election commission that people go directly from the central government to the electoral commission. If I ask myself, RIK will not be composed of political parties. So, we obviously, it's not a secret, we think of everything differently, our political parties are diametrically opposite, but there's no need to expose the truth. I literally said yesterday – all elections so far have been completely legitimate. I said that we did a check and that 99% of the voter lists were absolutely correct, i.e. they were correct, from the level of regularity, 98-99%. There's no need to say here that I said something else when I didn't say it, because it could have consequences. Someone's watching this, and they're gonna think it's true what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29997	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29998	Madam President, I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 113 concerning Article 104. Mr. Markovic, as former MP, once vice-president of the Assembly, knows that the rules of the Rules of Procedure apply to all participants at the session, and he is the one. You, Mr. Minister, have misused the possibility of reporting given to you by the Rules of Procedure after each speaker's presentation, and you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly by being completely uninformed, uninformed, rated and qualified by one political party, its weight, residences and participation in parliamentary life, in this case our SRS and the SRS electoral lists of SRS - Dr. Vojislav Seselj. If you know the results of 11 May 2008, then you must face the fact that the SRS and its SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj won the single largest number, 78 mandates, not taking into account your DS, that ZES coalition, the fraud coalition, headed by Boris Tadic, who has deceived citizens into producing 300 thousand units of the new fiat model. Today is D day, when an annex is to be signed, and none of it, that Serbia in the EU, that citizens will live with good wages, we will all have new houses, cars, apartments. People in poverty and poverty, and you talk about what the influence of a political party is. The influence of the political party to which I and Mrs Radeta belong, who, with the highest legal qualifications and as a longtime parliamentarian and, earlier, a member of RIK, has literally made a retrospective of all abuses so far, and has said that this law alone has a unique electoral list, which has hurt you. Learn something, Mr. Minister, unlike those of us who know it much better than you, I have been participating for 20 years in Serbia's parliamentary life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u29999	Mr. Zoran Krasic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30000	Since I am directly mentioned in a nervous context and exposure, I must draw attention to Mr Markovic. Mr Markovic, two laws in Serbia's modern history concerning the elections have been passed as a result of compromise and agreement between authorities and the opposition. The first was the one adopted in autumn 1992, and as a result of the lack of the law was created in 2000, a law that was common law and authorities and opposition. Be careful when you criticize something, when you plead a minus. About how legitimate the elections are and whether good results are from the polling list's point of view, so, just from the polling list's point of view, it's enough to remind you of what happened in Peća and Gracanica in the last local elections. All the media explained how those who were enrolled to vote in the King could vote again in Gracanica. As a result, the results of the vote have also been cancelled and a re-determined day has been set for the vote. At least read the paper. At least take some solutions to some of the organs that monitor the election. Don't think that every day he can throw the current news into oblivion of what happened yesterday. There are people who do prescribing, there are people who remember, there's a website, there's an archive, there's your file at my place what you said, when you said, why did you say, what you said, that I always remind you, that the public would see when Milan Markovic was real, did today, did two years ago, when he came to Verica Radete's office to write him a law on local elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30001	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30002	That's so pathetic what you just said. It's just like everything you do otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30003	Mr. Minister, please use the terms of the appropriate House of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30004	Then I suggest we cut off any kind of private communication, it'll be my pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30005	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30006	Mr. Minister, you've been very correct in communicating with the MPs so far. Mrs. Comic, allow Mr. Secretary to listen to me. I'm speaking to the Minister, please. So, you, Mr. Minister, have so far been very correct in communicating with the MPs of the people, of course, every time you've represented laws here that are so much, from the point of view of the policy that you defend, you've been defensive. You are today a law that you cannot defend, whether you like it or not. The law will not form a single polling list in Serbia. You have no argument to defend yourself from it, and then, which you really didn't like so far, you were also rude, and angry, and you insulted the MPs and the MPs, without the President's reaction, which is particularly interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30007	Please, here, I'm reacting, you can't tell the Minister that he's rude and angry. I'm responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30008	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Minister, try to answer your arguments. You may have a problem, when you talk about some other political parties, because you realize that the faction in the DS that you've defined isn't very good, but that's your problem and solve it elsewhere, not here, in this House. Why don't you actually need a single polling list? Because you DS have ballots from all municipalities in Serbia. Your activists go door-to-door and carry a photocopy of the electoral list and you, in the name of these photocopies of voter lists, which Democrats have in all municipalities, steal elections. You steal by rounding up people you know for a fact that they died.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30009	Please use the terms that are appropriate to the House of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30010	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I really don't know a different term than stealing an election, stealing an election will. If someone circles dead people and gets an election result, it can't be called otherwise. If you have another appointment, you say it and I'll be happy to accept it. That's why you don't need a unique voter list. You want to work on these lists based on which your activities go door-to-door and carry food packages, hygiene packages, carry money, and that's your way of winning power, the way the DS works in all the election campaigns so far. Like it or not, ask the citizens of Serbia, ask those who vote for you, what packages they get. You have never answered the question – what and whose money do you bring trucks of food that you share in election seats, or family members, to vote for you? You are used to infringing the will of citizens, as you do in this House, in violation of constitutional rights, as you do in this House. The best example is Elena Christmas-Talian and Lydia Dimitrijevic, who cannot use their constitutional right. They resigned, you don't accept that resignation. You determine who will be the Messenger, who will not. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are now looking at me, and you have done nothing in this House to respect the Constitution, to respect the Rules of Procedure. I ask the most beautiful of you to remind any MP who violates the Rules of Procedure in the future, but to treat the ministers as well. They're not our bosses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30011	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30012	I don't mind asking the people, we asked the people in Vrbas, and the people answered. You have a problem with asking the people, the answer you get from the people isn't exactly what you want. I expected you to say that you wrote the Law on Local Self-Government, as counterpart Krasic said here. I expect you to be so honest, so you can tell me if you wrote the Law on Local Self-Government. That's what I'm interested in here. Every question you ask I will answer is no problem, but here I am now telling you, since Mr Krasic was so incorrect and such a lie, I suggest that we end private communication completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30013	Mr. Minister, as long as we don't use the terms. As you can see... A few MPs of the opposition, from the place, "Give him a warning." Please, he can't get a warning. He shouldn't get a warning, he didn't say anything more intense, no more emotional, no more unpleasant, no less, than what we unfortunately hear from the messengers. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30014	I'm reporting because I think I'm entitled to a replica. Given some of the things I said, Mr. Markovic thought it was pathetic. Of course, that's his opinion and I'm not mad about it. We really need to get this straight. Is it possible that the truth can get such a qualification? You know, when the DS tells you it's state-of-the-art, then make sure it has destroyed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and now it's working to create two new states -- Kosovo and Vojvodina. When DS says we're going to hire 300 to 500 thousand people, know that so many people are going to get fired. Simply, when he tells you something DS, turn around, see where the sun is, is it time to say good morning, good day or good night, who else can trust them. Finally, please, if we are talking about some things, is it possible, in 95% of the municipalities where the courts returned mandates under the law in which Mr. Markovic participated, that now this same man said that nothing was right, that it should be thrown out, that it should be deleted? We have a problem getting the ministers and the government to respect what the Constitution is and what the law is. That's the central problem. Here we have a kind of demonstration by the DS that the Constitution and the law are fluid matter and that they're always right, although it's the diametric opposite of what they said a year ago and what they're saying today. This is a virtual reality directed by the DS, and we need to be all the victims of it, so in Serbia there should be both misery and misery, and that no one knows where the borders are, that no one knows if there's a guaranteed job, whether it's going to work tomorrow, what's going to happen to social incomes, what's going to happen to the flu, what's going to happen to the gatherings. It's just, it's all chaos, because it's demagogue and promoting policy "the worse, the better". Let's remember who went "condom versus cordon." Let's remember who was looking for lex specialis and gonzales. They forgot all that. Why? Because now it's another interest, because now there's something else to be done, there are other goals to be achieved. It's DS and when they're told the fact, the truth, the proof, then whoever says it, he's a loser, he talks miserable, it's beneath honor, he's lying, he's milking. You can get all possible labels, and you, citizens of Vozhdovac, citizens of Serbia, know how you live. You live by the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30015	On behalf of the ZES Group, the word is Mrs Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30016	I know, fortunately, that the citizens have not forgotten anyone's role, nor yours, that the citizens have not forgotten anyone's results, nor yours. That's what citizens best show in the election. I think what they show you in the election, denying your support, show us, too, by giving us support. I think it's inadmissible in parliamentary debate, whatever the subject is, and what's now said is certainly not a topic, and in that sense everyone should get a warning to stick to the topic, because this is absolutely not a topic. What's inadmissible is that on the basis of harsh untruths, the most terrible qualifications you've now said are being expressed. We know a time when the words "issue" and "sale" and so on. They've led the country to ruin, but I think we live now in a time where we won't refer to each other; we can talk about whether our tools for achieving our goals are the best, whether the goals we set are the best, or if there's a better way to go, but I think it's unacceptable to return to the rhetoric that you've served in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30017	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic. (Srdjan Milivojevic: I give up my words. ) The word has Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30018	To support what you said, Mrs. Kolundzija, tell the citizens of Serbia how many parties you've been in. Do you feel responsible, as a member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, for the previous period, or do you think that you are the party that was defeated at the eighth session, so you transfer to those who were winners at the 8th session, until May 2008, and now you join them in the coalition? As a member of the Democratic Alternative of Nebojka Covic, so now the DS, can you argue responsibly that you are not changing your attitudes, that you hold your word, that you have always represented one view, which was intended only to make the citizens of Serbia better? Support this evidence. This is how we can conclude, Mrs. Kolundjia, that you are taking personal interests, that you go where it suits you and that, accordingly, you have your own opinions and your views, etc. Mrs. Kolundjia, I really don't know what it takes to convince you that you said what you said. I really don't get it. I read you a stenogram, that stenogram is not an objection, you are the head of the parliamentary club and you have allowed yourself, which no one has ever allowed, except for your President Boris Tadic, to divide citizens into first-class citizens and second-class citizens, or MPs to first-row MPs and second-class MPs. In doing so, you accuse the SRS of a ten-year-old part of Serbia in which the SPS was the headquarters of the government, and now you are with them in the coalition. I ask you, where is your morale? Where did you get the moral right to say anything to anyone? How can you transfer us if you are now sitting with the SPS in the coalition? That's the basics of things. Everywhere, in every business, especially in politics, there must be morality, and you don't have it. You don't have any morals. You robbed this country. It's enough to see that vaccine tender yesterday and make it clear to everyone, and you're giving us these lessons. In the mouse hole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30019	Again a very inappropriate way of speaking, which citizens also follow. They're following the citizens, and they're estimating. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30020	Always, and that's perfectly clear, when you have no arguments and when the facts speak to your harm, you go into personal assaults. At that level, I don't want to bring down this debate or myself. What you're trying to say by attacking me is, in fact, something you're talking about yourself, not me. So you can't hurt me with dirty attacks, personal attacks, which are unauthorized and inadmissible in parliament. I didn't attack anyone personally. I didn't touch anyone personally. I'm talking about what it is to be the politics of both sides. I'm talking about a policy that gives results, and these results are what citizens say in the election. What the citizens said in the elections is that what you did doesn't support, that what you want to do they don't support.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30021	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure, who wants to? (National MP Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I said - replica. Well, there's no basis for replication. Who wants to go through the Rules of Procedure? I remind you, Mr. Todorovic, that you do not throw away and ask that the atmosphere be worthy to return to the topic on the agenda. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30022	Ms. Djukić-Dejanović, Art. 100 and 104. Rules of Procedure. I have to distract myself. I rarely use anything in my personal life or anything personal. I hardly ever talk about it, but I have to take this. You have to act. Why do you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, have to react, not only as president of the National Assembly, but as vice president of the SPS? I appreciate that you now have a high threshold of tolerance over some attacks and some untrues, but it is untasteful to accuse and transfer something to the SRS for the period from 1991 to 24 March 1998. From who? By those who were actively involved in the SPS government at the time. If you have anything against the SPS, Ivica Dacic has been a spokesman for years. He was also a spokesman at the time when you ran a "condom against cordon" performance, and at the time of Gonzales, and at the time of all those events – Dafina, Jad, etc. Sit down, and make a deal there, but don't, criticising the SPS policy, use the words – the SRS. Just to remind you, you were with them as much as possible in the coalition and you were also a pick-up worker when needed, even for Avramović you were a pick-up artist. It's over. One time you finished it at 8th session in one way. Now you've come to terms with it, and we understand it, but don't be angry if we bring the truths as the fact that the time of Stambolic has come...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30023	It's been a while. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30024	Article 27, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, which, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You were just talking about some incorrect atmosphere in this House. Remember how it started – I was talking about the bill on a single polling list. In no letter have I offended the minister or the ruling coalition or anyone. I was talking about the fact that this law does not provide for a single electoral list, and that's true. But Mr. Markovic reacted very inappropriately at the time, and you didn't react. He said, about how, in line with how the head of his parliamentary group, Mrs. Kolundji, performs, and I'll take a stenogram later, that he doesn't care about the opinion of my political party, because we're not big enough and we're not important to him, let those who are bigger and who are more important. Likewise, the Messengers of the party of the first and second order did not respond either. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, are responsible for the fact that the debate that, I say, was very professional, experienced, but hit the minister, what to do to him. He left, he came out now, probably to miss answering the question I asked him in his first address – who wrote him a bill on a single polling list? Whom has he addressed to the law on the electoral list, and there is no letter – a unique voter list? This bill is the basis for any future theft by the DS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30025	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the parliamentary groups of New Serbia, the SPS - JS, the DSS, the NS, the SRS, the ZES. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30026	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is pleased to return to the agenda of the assembly session, to an extremely important legislative proposal, a bill on a single electoral list. Before we go to a concrete story on the proposed legislative solution, I would like to say, in front of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, that we understand the reasoned story of all fellow Members of Parliament on concrete legislative proposals. We understand and legitimately are the right of the opposition to be held in this room and has a critical reference to legal proposals. What we expect from Mr. Minister, bearing in mind his correct attitude towards this home, according to fellow MPs, is that in this room he does not express his personal position. We expect the RS government minister to hold the RS government's position. That is what is extremely important, because he is here a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it was about the electoral law and some kind of personal attitude about the electoral law. Today we are talking about a bill on a single electoral list, and we will talk about the electoral law when the time comes, that is, when we have this bill in the assembly procedure. On the other hand, there's a reference to Verbas. And we asked the citizens of Vrbasa what they think of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition policy and we got the trust of 19.5% of the citizens of Vrbasa, but we don't think this home is a place to talk about this topic. So, when it comes to an extremely important legislative proposal, which is the bill on a single voter's list, what is quite clear, what is completely evident, is that we have a rather unarranged electoral list and that voters' lists are made in local communities, i.e. that we have electoral lists that are made in local self-governments, or local municipalities. Today, we have about 160 seats in Serbia and every local environment, each municipality, holds a voter list for itself, and after the election, these voter lists are united. On the other hand, I also want to say that when it comes to this area, there is also a clear lack of existing legal solutions. So what we have today is certainly not and cannot be defined as a unique voter list. What it wants to achieve by adopting this legislative proposal and, in the opinion of the SPS-SJ Parliament Club, is extremely important and fully acceptable, is that Serbia has a single electoral list that will be run by only one competent authority, i.e. the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. This legislative proposal provides for the establishment of a single polling list to be led through modern technology, as an electronic database, as is said among other things. Of course, it is fully understood and justified for us and the goal which is to achieve the adoption of this legislative proposal, which is, as stated in the reasoning of this law, the existence of an accurate, up-to-date and unique record of all voters and of a easier, more efficient and economic process in which voters will exercise their right. We are convinced that the adoption of this legislative proposal will remove all possible doubts when it comes to some future electoral procedures, i.e. that this legislative proposal will increase trust when it comes to some future electoral procedures. Of course, this process is neither easy nor short, it is complicated and long, but extremely important, and will contribute to obtaining information in one place about all Serbian citizens with voting rights. One of the basic preconditions for the overall implementation of this process is very high-quality data on citizens and therefore it is very important that the MUP, among other things, began to settle its records, in terms of issuing new ID cards. What, then, is achieved by adopting this legal proposal? It will allow voters to vote in the country's place of residence if they are not in place on the day of the election. We are convinced that all misunderstandings will be removed after the debate is concluded, and the issues raised through the debate in principle and which will be asked in the discussion of the details of this particular position, explained. On the other hand, exchange of data between competent authorities will be possible, which is also extremely important. What I want to point out once again, in the end, is that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30027	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30028	Dear President, Mr. Minister, who is not present, respected fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer. I'm really sorry that the minister isn't in the O.R. right now, because I would have asked a few questions about this law, because I think he's, I really think, quite frankly, very expert on these issues, and if he hadn't entered a political tribune here, I would have really asked him a few questions. I ask you, President, will the minister be here soon, so I know how to address him and the citizens of Serbia? Is the minister coming? Is it a short break or a longer break?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30029	The minister must be in the building, everything will be passed on to him, as soon as he finishes what he came out for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30030	Okay, President, I'm gonna talk like the minister is present, because I've been getting warnings and punishments because I insisted that ministers are not present, and he's talking to them as if they were present. No problem. As for the law on the single polling list, it belongs to that group of laws, I'm talking about timing when they propose, when citizens justifiably seem to be asking questions – and why now? So there was time a few years back. It seems to me to me that this same Mr. Secretary was holding the resistor that he now has. Why didn't he suggest it then? It's an interesting history of voters' lists and manipulations. Should I remind Serbian citizens that 104% of Serbian citizens voted in one election, perhaps in the first multi-party elections, according to official indicators and reports by the then RIK? Should I remind the citizens of Serbia that an Albanian village, I think, was called Junik, with 100% vote for then-elected President Milan Milutinovic? So, I'm sorry, I say again, that the minister is not here. I would really have a few questions, given the importance of this law, which is not a dispute, or the adoption of this law. The questions are next. What happens if presidential, republican and local elections are scheduled in the same day? One citizen says if he is from the town of Cačka, then a student, as the minister said, should enable students, and he reports that he will vote for local elections in Cačka and for the republics, for example, in Belgrade or Novi Sad, if he is studying. Is that what this law says? What's he gonna do? Therefore, in opposition, this law, as it is destined, does not slow down the importance of adopting this law on a single voter's list, raises some controversy and some questions. Furthermore, the law says that the funds are needed, if I read correctly, this year 40 million, and the next year – 170, 2011 – 40 million. I was going to ask the minister where he sees these budget funds for this year? Where's he gonna find that 40 million? I have to repeat to the citizens of Serbia. In these days, ofers have been paid 12,000, and for vaccines, we don't know. As much as this looks like I'm jumping out of the picture, I wanted to, directly here, face the minister, see if he's really thinking seriously about what he's talking about, or is this now to fill this agenda out of some, I don't know how much? Are there five MPs here who know how many items the agenda has? Almost every day they come for two or three new points, I think, more than 60 points. So I wanted to communicate with him personally here, in a cultural way, if he could endure and endure such communication. Given that I belong to a parliamentary group that is smaller than the SRS, do I have the right at all, that I should have asked you before I started speaking as a MP, are we equal here and do New Serbia's MPs represent some citizens, as I think each of the MPs here represents a number of citizens? Those who had more are the authorities, and those who had less, they are the opposition. Is that what the minister needs to explain? Then I'd like to respond to some of his statements here, in controversy with my colleagues from the SRS, where he spoke about the electoral system. I think my colleague Milicevic noticed that it was not a topic. If that's what the minister was talking about, it's our turn to say something. So a few years ago, when DS was an opposition, and my smallness belonged to the ruling coalition, some informal talks began with the then president of the National Assembly, Mr Markovic. I want to report to the public, as well as the uninformed DS MPs, the only two parties that were for the absolute majority system in the local elections are DS and New Serbia. When DS changed his position on the election system in the local elections, I'd like to know? Then, in co-operation with CESID, here, so to speak, he released a test balloon to the public – neither majority nor proportional, nor combined. Then what is it? This raises doubts among Serbian citizens, and therefore I would especially like to invite the citizens of Leposavic to take a good look at the voter lists, because there are soon an extraordinary local election, to take a good look at the voter lists, not to manipulate them, as much as the resident of the municipality of Leposavic is the current KIM resolution minister, Mr Goran Bogdanovic. So, I call on the people of Leposavic to see the election as much as possible and to take a good look at the electoral lists, to well control the elections in Leposavic, so that all the citizens of Leposavic realize that these are not just elections for the local assembly in the municipality of Leposavic, that they are strategically important elections for the defence of the north in KIM, and mostly because of last night's statement by Minister Bogdanovic. Visiting on show B 92, I want to believe, knowing him, I can say, and in private, that he's a decent man, but he's lost something -- inadmissible. So the resolute minister for KIM was not allowed to state what he said. What did he say? Madam President, you should react, too. You know what he said? Calling on Serbs not to go to the election that was scheduled by the so-called Serbs. The KIM government, told them that one citizen cannot have two states for an employer to give up. I know about Serbia. I was in Leposavic on Sunday; and we from New Serbia and those citizens, all of them, only know about Serbia. They don't know which other state it is. So, Mr. Bogdanovic should answer -- which is another state that could be an employer to Serbian citizens, to say, Serbs, above all, in Leposavic? I ask a serious question – did his words go a little ahead of his mind, is it a lapus, or is there something behind it that hides? I think he's hiding and insisting on one television, forcing 30% of Serbs to go to, so the people say, the Cyprus elections. It is propaganda that as many Serbs go to the election as possible, so that the government in Belgrade, the Serbian government, is handcuffed, that foreign factors and some others, sitting in this hall, say -- well, there are Serbs who went to elections in such and such percentages. Some who have sold themselves down at KIM, should say openly, which will go to these elections that are scheduled by a false Shipage state, know why they did it, but the minister has to weigh every word. So, gentlemen, he said -- no one can have two employers, no one can work for another country, thinking, probably, to use benefits from the budget. I ask him - and what is the other state in the territory of the southern Serbian province, which is called Kosovo and Metohija? That's what he has to answer. It's a very dangerous lapus. I still want to believe it was a lapus. In this regard, when I mention KIM, since the minister is not present here, I would have to ask him – will all the citizens of KIM enter this unique polling list? How will he determine how many adult citizens there are in KIM? I said "citizens," and I mean Albanians, and Roma, and all the citizens who live on KIM. How will his ministry, or government and him as minister, determine how many people there are in the KIM, and will they be on this unique polling list? On account of what previous colleagues have said, and regarding the minister's statement that the parties will have no insight into the unique voter lists, I will say the following. Everyone who participates, and all of us here participate in local campaigns, knows that every DS municipal board has a polling list and that they go from apartment to apartment and offer – food packages, mobile, washing powder, everything. At the same time, this government, whose headquarters is DS, leaves 700,000 hungry people on purpose, because someone is sucking money out of the budget. It leaves citizens hungry and then it's easy to manipulate them, it's easy to buy a voice for a mobile machine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30031	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Mikhailo Puric, a National MP. Go ahead, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30032	I would like, first of all, to talk about the bill on a single electoral list. I want to say that we have a very important bill, which provides for legal assumptions for the creation of a single electoral list to be run through modern technology, as an electronic database, based on a unique methodology. In Article 1 The bill is defined as a single electoral list of public documents, which keeps records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote. The polling list is constant and is updated regularly. The voter's list is a condition for the exercise of electoral rights. The bill clearly defines that the voter can only be entered in the voter's list once and that the voter's list is kept on official duty. The existence of a single polling list will contribute to Serbia's finally getting information in one place about all citizens of Serbia who have the right to vote, which has not been the case so far. Respecting the need for the process itself to be as economical and efficient as possible for citizens, the single polling list is foreseen by only one body, which is the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. This is clearly defined in Article 2. Proposal for a law on a single voter's list. To the same end, it is intended to update the electoral lists in the local self-government area, and to lead to changes in the electoral list, such as erasure, alteration, supplementation or correction, to the conclusion of the single electoral list by the municipal, or city administration, and after its conclusion, up to 72 hours before the election date – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Dear colleagues, under Article 4 of the proposed law, are listed in the voter's list as having the right to vote, following the decision to call the elections, and underage persons who are entitled to vote at the latest on the day of the election. Article 8 of the proposed law defines that a special record of polling stations, including the number, address, description and seat of the polling post, is kept with the voter list. Closer rules on how to keep special records of polling stations, as well as the content of these records are prescribed by the minister responsible for the state administration and local self-government, which is a very important thing when it comes to the single polling list. One of the legal papers proposed by the bill is that voters are allowed to vote in the country's place of residence if they are not in place on the day of the election. Such a legal solution makes it easier for voters to exercise their electoral right, respecting their personal, professional obligations and needs. After the elections, these data are deleted, according to official duty, from the voter's list, because the law creates an assumption that the voter will vote on each of the next elections according to the place of residence. The draft law shall specify the procedure and allow for the subsequent exchange of data between competent authorities that keep official records of citizens, which contain data of importance for the conduct of the electoral list, as defined in Article 11. It's a bill of law. Modern conditions mean that this exchange is ensured by the use of modern technologies, by electronic means. Also, the bill provides for the polling list to be conducted as an electronic database. It is therefore necessary to establish an adequate information system, and then implement the process of uniting existing local voter lists into a single electoral list, which requires time and funding. As a result, it is foreseen that the law on a single voter's list should start to apply after one year from the date of its entry into force. Dear gentlemen, I would like to say that the bill on a single voter's list is one of the rules in the set of laws that will reform electoral legislation in the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia -- Boris Tadic, in voting day, will vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30033	I thank Mr. Puric. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30034	Dear fellow MPs, since the minister is not present, I will address respected citizens, who have not been able to read the law on a single voter's list, and try to explain what a unique voter list is, so that citizens will be able to give their own court on whether or not it is necessary in the Republic of Serbia to have a unique voter list. First, they need to know that the single electoral list is a public document that keeps records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote. The voter's list is based on official duty. The polling list is unique, permanent and is regularly updated. The polling list is used during the election. Today in the Republic of Serbia, we do not have a single voter list. Now, let's ask the minister -- how many citizens are in Serbia with the right to vote, he wouldn't be able to answer you correctly, because that information is not available and it takes time for him to collect it. The reason is that voter lists are being compiled today in local self-governments, according to polling stations. Each municipality has its own electoral list, and before the election, the list is sent to the competent ministry in Belgrade. When voting lists are collected from all municipalities, one united, central electoral list and the accuracy of that united, or central electoral list depends on the quality of the voter lists from individual local self-governments. The Central Election List, what we have now, is a free set of electoral lists from local self-government. We often have a random or deliberate discrepancy of the number of voters with the number of voters in the voter lists. It happens that, when a citizen changes residence, he is listed in a new address in the polling list, not deleted from the old address, or deleted when checked out from the previous address, and does not sign up for a voter list in the new address, or people who have passed away or have been permanently relocated appear on the voter's list. (President: Please reapply.) Today, the number of voters in the Republic of Serbia is unknown. The fact that we don't have a single polling list shows how inefficient our administration is, as well as the government that runs this country. Neither the authorities before 2000 nor the authorities after 2000 wanted to create a single polling list, even though it was said in 2002-2003, budgets were even allocated for these purposes. So for 20 years since the introduction of a multi-party system, Serbia still does not have a single voter list. When you do not know, and you do not know the exact number of voters, due to the absence of a single voter list, there is a possibility of hunting in a blurry during the election. The unlicensed voter list in the elections allows several percent more votes for those in power. There have been various violations in the elections, there have been irregular election lists, irregular election records from polling stations, changes in election results by election commissions, cancellation of election results in courts, correspondence of voters, voters who are permanently absent or died, pressure on employees to vote for certain parties or candidates, organised inserting filled ballots into boxes. These irregularities are possible if the ruling parties, with the help of the electoral administration of the state apparatus, increase the number of voters. We of the SNS are certainly in order to regulate this matter around the voter lists, because the proper conduct of the single voter's list is essential for the achievement of the general right of vote. When we get a unique voter list, then we'll have an insight into how many voters there are and how many citizens are going to vote. Making a single polling list is a long and complicated process, i.e. it is not an easy job at all. That is why it took much earlier to access a single polling list. In order for there to be a single voter list, there must be good coordination and communication between the police and the municipal administration, which today is not good quality. Quality polling lists also require quality parentbooks, which is why they must be done impeccably and in electronic form. The existence of a single polling list will contribute to Serbia's finally getting information on all people in Serbia who have the right to vote, which is not the case today. To conclude, in order to make a high-quality voter list, it requires, above all, the government's goodwill, computers and computer programs, as well as trained people to use these programs. It all takes time, a lot of money, which we have, and maybe we don't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and after the adoption of this law, it will be a long time and a lot of choices until we get a high-quality voter list, even though we need it. It is necessary because the way the elections are conducted should not and should not depend on the daily political interests of the parties in power. Thank you. Now you can shut me down.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30035	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30036	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I remind you of article 87. A Rules of Procedure which stipulates that members of the Government take part in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, not to read any further. You've already interrupted the session several times, of course, because the government's representative didn't sit here. Nowhere in article 87 does it say that if the minister, if he gets angry or does not like what the MPs say about the bill he represents here, he can leave the hall without answering the questions asked during the debate. So I ask you best – either provide the Minister, or do what you have done so far every time, that is, lately, when a representative of the Government was not present in the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30037	Thank you. You know Mr. Secretary is in the building, and he'll be here any minute. He is giving reporters a statement about the essence of the law, which is extremely important. It also informs the public about it. Mr. Free Marash, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30038	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the same occasion, but Article 27. We really need Mr. Markovic. This is a very important law. We at the LDP said it was necessary, etc., but the question I have to ask him, and I can't because he's not in the O.R., is he – will the unique electoral list run by Belgrade's "Informatics"? I must remind you that Belgrade's Informatics was bought by the Serbians, which is 170m euros in losses, and our debt to Russia for gas amounts to about that much. One day, and very quickly, he may own Belgrade's Informatics, so they will have a unique voter list. That's why my question would be addressed, first of all, to the Minister, but how can I direct him when he's not here? So, will Belgrade's Informatics run a single polling list?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30039	Mr. Minister, as soon as he's finished with the representatives of the information funds, he'll enter the O.R. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30040	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO, as the right-hand side of the ZES list, has since the establishment of its political party requested that there be a single electoral list in our country, as a basic prerequisite for the election and election will of citizens to be properly expressed in the elections, so that the elections are correct and fair. I think Minister Markovic, whom we from the SPO consider one of the best ministers, and his ministry, one of the most active ministries, has prepared a good law. Through the analysis of the legal solution itself, we wondered which side and which argument that law would be challenged. Argumentation is what it is. We had in our political life and the dispute and various political views, which had the consequence of paying a higher price, as far as Serbian citizens are concerned, compared to the statements we have today, but the fact is that, unfortunately, many who talk about the law do not understand the very concept of public documents. So, a public document is a document that, within its legal powers, a competent state authority, in which every interested citizen, at any moment, can exercise public insight. Thus, the unique voter list is a public document in which every day, during working hours, every interested citizen has an insight, and in a particular case he is certainly interested in whether it is listed in the voter's list, whether the data are correct. This law also allows some broader opportunities for citizens, unlike previous solutions, that if they are currently out of their residence, or abroad, they exercise their electoral right by enrolling in the voter list. Since there was not a single law that regulated the update of the electoral list, which is important not only for the selection of MPs, because so far we have regulated this area by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but also for the presidential and local elections, so far computerised but separate records, this legal solution has been systematized in one place. I think, technically, citizens need to understand the Ministry of State and local self-government's intensity, which is good. Of course, municipal and city administrations will keep records of citizens, i.e. they will change the voter list, delete, enrollment, change and so on, because if the job were organised by the Ministry, then it would mean that the Ministry must establish its offices in each municipality, hire a number of officials, which would be unnecessary additional costs, because these jobs have so far been carried out by municipal and city administrations, and they are still left to them as trusted jobs by the competent ministry. Also, I think that many MPs have overlooked the fact that the minister, the special instruction he will make within 60 days of the day of entry into force of this law, will arrange the process of unifying existing electoral lists that are in computer records, but which are not united in one place. Perhaps now, in several members, this law could contain this procedure, or procedure, but I believe that this instruction will also be public and that everyone will have the right to criticise and challenge and to keep an eye on the voter list daily, especially at the time of the election. What is significant to our citizens, however, many of our citizens are constantly or temporarily outside of their place of residence, is that this legal solution allows them to vote where they are temporarily. Legal terminology says – in the place of residence, and we know that many citizens, the minister mentioned it yesterday, especially the students and those who are constantly employed, and are engaged in field affairs, were often prevented from expressing their electoral will, because of the fact that they are often hundreds of miles away from their place of residence and what would be a way of expressing their electoral will to them first expensive, and, on the other hand, rather complex. What is important for our citizens living outside our country's borders is that the law gives them an even wider opportunity than the existing state, to vote not only in the country where they are on election day, but also in our country, if on election day they find themselves and if they report to the authority in charge of recording their will to wish to vote in our country on that day. The Serbian Renewal Movement will give full support to this legal solution in the voting day. We would not be talking about other solutions now, given that we are young democracy, that in this multiparty life, which lasts for 19 years, we have seen everything and everything, there have been a lot of abuses in this sense in the early 1990s, I don't think we have had a dominant impact on the election will of citizens, but for a time the presidents of the local communities went with some ordinary notebook from house to house, recorded someone, someone not, etc., but I would agree with the assessment that the electoral system is in our constant perfection and advancement. We have, as far as the election results are concerned, a phenomenon that was unimaginable before 2000, that, for example, a representative sample of 2.5 or 3% already largely defines the electoral will of citizens, which was not during some periods, especially in the conduct of elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia 1997, when Adem Jasari's terrorist nest in Drenica voted in favour of the then rival SPO and candidate ruling majority, around 3,800, or 3,700 Kosovo Albanians. They boycotted those elections and we were convinced that it was not their electoral will, nor that the election list was well done at the time. I say, for all the reasons presented by the minister, and by colleagues who support this law, SPO MPs, as the right-hand side of the list of ZES, in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30041	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. Now, it would be Mr. Zeljko Tomic, who is not here, so let's tell Miss Natashi Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30042	Madam President, I protest that the minister is not in the O.R. because this is a law that has long been announced. When I looked at my reminder this morning, I saw that the minister, from the time of the adoption of the law to today, had made at least 30 - 50 statements. I don't have time to comment on his statements. I would very seriously like to discuss this issue, especially because of the fact that it is also known to your associate, Deputy Secretary, Mr Pudar, that the parliamentary delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, organised by the Council of Europe, was held in Finland a month ago by a very serious expert debate on electoral law, electoral lists and why Serbia does not have a single electoral list. I will begin with that theory, which is known by all of us in parliamentary practice, that the electoral body, in accordance with the theory of national sovereignty, represents and is considered to be the bearer of the sovereign government and voters on the day of the elections, by voting for political parties, for the president of the state or council, part of their sovereign right to be transferred to the parliamentary life of our country and every democratic country, which Serbia, unfortunately, is not for many reasons to the holders of power. If we go into what the electoral body represents and how it registers, and we talk about a single polling list, then we come up with some three theories that have been developed. That's the first thing, basically, that voting rights are individual rights and that they are available to everyone. The second is that it is a constitutional category and that therefore you, too, who are the president of the National Assembly, and my smallness, and each of these 250 colleagues in the O.R., are represented in the right sense, using our right to benefit from the citizens, the constitutional category. The third is the general one, equally, that it is acceptable and that the state itself is democratically developed if there is one theory that is based on the fact that one man must be established – one vote. In replication of the Minister's nervous exposure and in his principle discussion, and Mrs Radeta, later and Mr Krasic, made one retrospective of the events since 1990, when a parliamentary multi-party system was restored in Serbia. There have been various abuses and various inabilitys of Serbian citizens, which are, for the time being, listed in the voter's list, 6,725,157, this is the last piece of information I have found, to use their electoral rights. counterpart Markicevic had just voiced concern that his electoral right could not be guaranteed in the constitution, guaranteed by the 52nd member, his final position, to use our countrymen in the KIM for the upcoming elections in Leposavic, without talking about the fact that Prof. Vojislav Seselj convincingly beat SPS candidate Zoran Lilic in the 1997 elections to elect Serbia's president. Later, in the re-elections, and Milan Milutinovic, because of the fact that it has manipulated about 400,000 non-existent votes from our southern province. I must remind you, because you know this well, Madam President, as vice-president of your party from that time and MP, that in the village of Prekaza it was recorded that about 2,600 voters were somewhere, and there, the Serbian army and police were unable to enter into a tank until the occupation, let alone to conduct an election procedure, to vote for an SPS candidate, and Professor Vojislav Seselj had not received any votes. If we were to go back and talk about the manipulations since 2000, tell Mr. Kostunica who came out, likely to calm down a little because of these facts that we're presenting, DOS could never have done it on October 5th, or in the period after that, to prove that Vojislav Kostunica, as a candidate of the then unique DOS, who soon fell apart and each went to his side, as horns in a bag, and thus functioned, won that there were no Serb radicals records. Both Zoran Djindjic and Cedomir Jovanovic and other DOS representatives came to professors. Seselj to the SRS to beg us to give them records from the polling stations because they were unable to follow the election process. This "single voter list", for example, is not like that in Finland, because there is a state institution there called the state registry, which is self-registration for itself, knows Mr. Pudar, with an apology for mentioning it the second time, or one of the colleagues who was with us, even the director of the state register where the voters are registered, which is used not only in cases where it is necessary to conduct the electoral process, but because it is risky, because the state institution is of great importance. The minister denies the fact that the Radeta colleague has repeated twice – that this is not any, however, in the name, a unique electoral list, but only represents copies of the records, and the question is whether they are both up-to-date and how the units of local self-government, which are a set of data that exist. This "news" to vote on the place of residence, not the place of residence, and it is necessary, and it is not necessary. It is necessary due to the fact that it is always manipulated, most often, to students, which we have already mentioned in the principle debate, but, on the other hand, the legislator did not want to give more assistance than is prescribed in just one part of the article, which we are going to talk about in the context of the amendment, to the MUP, which is only able to verify the data, or to update data, change the address from the ID card, when reporting for voting is done in advance. Also, Mr Markovic did not have a clear answer to the remark why this is not better specified, because there is a greater possibility of manipulation. Anyone who deals with parliamentary life in Serbia knows whether it is you who represent the parties, whether it is the various analysts, whether those from CESID, who, for various reasons, have, above all, financial nature, been entrusted with projects, so, as the Deputy Minister for Human and Minority Rights said this morning, will be the ones who are to be held by the Council of National Communities, and they will have, the only ones who, the gentleman concerned, will have an updated list of voters representing national minorities, so that they can abuse, as they abuse, their function and on the day of the elections themselves. So there are major problems in the electoral system itself. Here, now we've absolutely absorbed, this isn't a unique voter list. If it were, there would be a central state registry and, as we have said, at any time this voter, wherever he is, whether in Leposavic, whether in Kragujevac, or in Belgrade, Subotica, in Odzac, where elections will soon be held, would have to know that he is just being listed on the voter list. This way, through applications to different addresses, there have been many abuses, as well as in Montenegro, you know that Milo Djukanovic, and false ID cards, and applications in several polling stations, won elections, it was the same thing in Serbia, so, since there will be no single electoral list, I will return to the beginning of the story, then there will be no respect for the basic democratic principle: one man – one vote, because it is possible for one man to have two or three votes under this law. How can we know that when we are not networked and in some of these statements, which I have reminded myself of, the minister says that such a system, which is referred to in this law, which is not unique, will function in 2011, and possibly, even in 2012? So, even today, 20 years after many electoral processes, how the election for the MPs, and for the MPs of those already torn apart by mentor Boris Tadic, the state union, or the SRJ, I see that he is rising by it, including yesterday, marking the 20th year of the Berlin Wall, which has been torn apart by our country, which Serbs have broken apart, which has kidnapped our territory, which is occupied by the Republika Srpska Krajina. Then the question really arises – how can someone be so hypocritical, not to use a worse term than Minister Markovic, when it is well known, and is currently not in Mr. Buha's hall, to confirm to you as Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in persecution, that even today many of our countrymen from the occupied Western Serb republic have no electoral right? You know that very well. I can't manipulate the number of those voices right now. Why don't they? Because they don't even have citizenship. What are we going to do with those of our compatriots who do not want to suffer a dictatorial, separatist, first of all, criminal government of Milo Djukanovic, who is seeking discharge from the citizenship of the Montenegrin state and wants to come here to Serbia? First of all, they're waiting a lot for it and secondly, it's a long time for them to get that right to become citizens, and they can dream of coming and being on the ballot. That is why one DS official could vote for both the elections in Montenegro and the elections in Serbia. Then where is justice and where is general equality? That you want this law, according to this third theory, which is known in political and legal practice, to restrict the right to vote, also speaks this example of prisons and pitems at the Academy, with soldiers. Why triple-choice lists? Since Article 52. The constitution guarantees that there is a possibility of constitutional and legal protection, and this is the constitutional category of voting rights, explain to me, please, you, sir, cannot, but tell the minister who does not want to listen to our argument – how can the voter be protected when in more than 8,000 polling stations in Serbia, I guarantee you, one third, and these are mostly presidents from the DS and from other parties made up of the ruling coalition, the presidents of the election committees who are unable to conduct the election process? You know very well that every manipulation at the polling station has been threatened, by the Criminal Code, by one to three years, and has just been taught not by the presidents of the election committees of the DS, who, in their trainings and camps, have not learned how to carry out the election process, but only how to share those yellow bags, packages, to manipulate, to record Tadic's voice, to harass people in two or three hours of the night, this is the case in Kragujevac, misfilling the record. It happened twice, in two consecutive election processes. Very often, the municipal or city electoral commission must re-establish the results of the vote. You know why? Because the Democrats, in the G17 and other parties in power, are revoted when determining the results on the ballot, and then you have three percentages of invalid ballots. Even RIK issued a warning about it and no one respects it. There will be invalid ballots in those percentages. There will also be a vote by one person in several polling stations, I guarantee you, until you are ready and able to face the fact that democracy is not only in its name, but that it must be implemented as it is in its work, in 1748, "The Spirit of the Law", Monteskje imagined – that not all should be in the hands of one ruler, or monarch, who is now in Serbia Boris Tadic, but that more of us who are the representative body of the Serbian state can think more. The minister has shown, first of all, that he is not in the O.R., that he is not ready for democratic processes and that his party is simply called democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30043	Thank you. The word is from MP Bajram Šehovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30044	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Sandzak Democratic Party, within the ZES Parliamentary Group, support the adoption of a special law on the conduct of a single electoral list, first because keeping voter records cannot be like so far, part of the law or provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs. The voter's registration must be separate from the procedure regulated by a special law, as the voter's record is used in the election process both for MPs and for the president of the republic and for local elections. In addition to this current formal lack, it is high time to establish an up-to-date and complete voter record. So far, the voter lists, although improved over time, have had many shortcomings. I only mention some, for which all citizens who have participated in the electoral process in any way, whether by voting they have exercised their civil right, or that they have participated in the work of electoral bodies, as members of election committees, or municipal and republican election committees. If, for example, we add up the number of citizens with general voting law, i.e. adult citizens, and the number of minors in the record, and let's compare that number to the number of residents according to the last census, that number should be approximately the same, assuming that population growth in the observed period was zero. In practice, however, this was not the case, precisely in municipalities where the mortality and birth rate was approximately the same, which in some ways speaks of the fact that the voter lists have been incomplete so far and have had shortcomings. Data in the polling lists were also lacking in cases of changes in residence and changes in last name in women. Election lists included persons without a home number, which created the possibility of a single person being listed twice in the voter's list because the program did not recognize a person without a home number. So, there is no dilemma that the voter lists were not up-to-date, and because the voter list was run separately, according to municipalities, the update of the changes was only done by the municipal authority of the administration, as trusted jobs. In the follow-up procedure, a general single voter list could not be established. If it is known that the law allowed the voter list to be conducted and in the form of a file, it is clear that the computer system could not be put in place until the end. It is therefore good that this law declares the electoral list a public correctness as an electronic database and updates it according to a unique methodology of the Ministry, which will be the central state body for managing the single electoral list and responsible for the accuracy and accuracy of the data in it. In addition to a good programme to update the single voter list, the importance of the State Administration Minister's instructions, which should be prescribed closer to the way in which the data is exchanged between the authorities keeping official records of citizens, the authorities responsible for the adoption of a solution based on changes in the electoral list, between the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government, as well as between the Ministry of State Administration and the municipal, or city administrations. The procedure for this instruction must also specify exactly who made the failure in case no change is required in the list. So far, the functioning and connection of the MUP services and municipal administrations have not been good. It is therefore necessary to establish exactly the kind of electronic system that the proposal for this law requires, but so that the instructions of the Minister establish a complete correlation of data, without holes and with full and prescribed responsibility for those who are obliged to supply and import data. A good solution to the bill is that voters are allowed to vote according to the place of residence if they are not at the place of residence on the day of the election. The vote abroad is also better resolved by the bill than it has so far. So far, the practice of keeping special records of voters abroad as accompanying records has been complicated. The bill stipulates that data on the voter referring to his residence abroad will be kept as others and the voter list will be listed as voting towards the place of residence abroad, which will be deleted from the voter's list after the election. The bill promises a major qualitative shift when it comes to the appearance, accuracy and up-to-date of the voter list. It is also important that within the legal deadline the minister adopts a precise instruction which will remove the current subjective Greeks and which will establish responsibility, since there is no doubt that the missing voter lists, among other things, were the reason for a smaller voter's response to the vote, as the general single voter list, complete and up-to-date, allows and certainly gives the voters greater turnout in the next elections. At the end of my presentation, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question. I believe he'll answer me when there's a debate in particular. The question concerns Article 7(2) of this Act. In what way will this Article 7 paragraph 2 be implemented in practice? I will quote Article 7 of Section 2: "The name and last name of the voters who are members of the national minority are twice entered: the first Cyrillic letter, according to the spell of the Serbian language, and then by letter and according to the spelling of members of the national minority." So, on the basis of which public documents or legal acts, the responsible person who records and registers voters in the voter list will identify the voters of a particular national minority, in order for his name to be entered in the language and letter of that national minority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30045	Thank you. Mr. Mica Rogovic is not there, Jovan Palalic is not there, Aleksandar Martinovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic, too. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30046	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at first I will make a small introduction, because there are a lot of young people in Serbia who are studying law, so they need to pass constitutional law, and the entire electoral system is part of constitutional law, so it is hard for them to find in books some things that they need as a life experience in order to pass the exam more easily. I'm probably also authorized to do some historical inspection on how it's been going with us ever since the multiparty system started. The first elections were, you know, themselves in 1990, a majority electoral system, and then it was a mixed electoral system in May 1992. What happened to the voter lists back then, you can only assume. Then, in the second half of 1992, two boys, Dacic Ivica and Goran Percevic, who broke up Zoran Djindjic, Professor Micunovic and others on the round table, because the round table was supposed to be a compromise between the authorities and the opposition, so that the opposition would go to the December elections in 1992. That's when the president of Serbia was elected. At the time, your candidate was Milan Panic. It was then that MPs were elected for the Federal Assembly, for the Greater Citizens, and MPs were elected for the Republican Parliament. A few years later, it was found that the election law was not good. He did promote a proportionate electoral system, which was the requirement of all political parties, except for the SPS, but it was noted that, with a large number of electoral units, there was disproportionate representation of political options in the Assembly. As a result of all these failures and the lack of the 1992 law, in 2000 the SRS took the obligation to be a kind of laxmus between the authorities and the opposition, and in the second half of 2000, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which represented the full consent of all political factors, as after a few months it came to what took place – October 5th, Kostunica was elected president and inevitably went to the republic's elections. Practically, the December elections in 2000 were the first test of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and of this substance that is now subject, which is a unique electoral list. For your sake, the grief of MPs and young people, I must draw attention to the fact that in December 2000, a CD appeared in circulation as a reflection of the single electoral list. I would ask you not to faint, that voter list, that CD brought to RIK at the time only this way was shown to the Director of State Security, or the Chief of State Security, Rada Markovic. There were also complaints about a single voter list. However, I must draw your attention, the Democrats did not object at the time. In the next elections, which were presidential, where the provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs on the electoral list are applied accordingly, I must tell you that everyone objected to the Democratic Party, which was then in power, which is not a single voter's list. The unique electoral list, as defined by several members of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, includes a unique information system and implies the responsibility of the competent ministry for the Single Election List. Why? So that what happened in the past wouldn't happen. I'll take an example of the election on KIM, where the voter lists are just a regular number, a name and a last name. When after the elections, you look at how people voted, then you see a round phone spiral. Protagonists are present in this building today. What happened on September 24, 2000? I was in Montenegro, controlling polling stations, among other things, where the people who escaped from KIM voted. Since we couldn't prevent counterfeiting and quasi-biking lists, which, minors, complemented by names and last names on election day, I had to break four boxes, pick up materials and happiness saved me from three services – Mila Djukanovic, the Army and Bulatovic, which would sooner arrest me, etc., and yet I returned to Belgrade. The driver was reportedly detained at Brodarev's place. We also wrote a constitutional complaint on over 1,800 sides, with very concrete examples of violations of the rules regarding the voter list for each polling post. It is the first constitutional appeal filed in history by the federal constitutional court. Of course, she was rejected for some entirely different reasons, not legal reasons. Just to remind you, it has to do with the election, that Vojislav Seselj was simply arrested in Gjilan. For your knowledge, that you know who was then arrested - special forces from Ivalia. That's how it is with the elections in Serbia. A unique polling list should be, above all, a computerised document, which includes all voters, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia with voting rights. As the excerpt will later appear, it depends not on this law, but on the decisions of the competent authorities where everything will be the polling stations, the schedule of polling stations, etc. We don't have anything like that. In 2002, the excuse why there is no single polling list was to have 16 computers missing. There's also a computer donation, but we don't have a single polling list. There are some problems, resolutions. Every 7th MUP's solution to determining the unique number of citizens is wrong. The question is – do municipal administrations that are tasked with keeping track of voters do so in quality, as part-time government work? The competent ministry at the republican level has also now the obligation to update these electoral lists and to exercise control. This law, as proposed, is not necessary. We have a regulation relating to the protection of personal data, as well as other sublaws. When things are arranged, then the law is respected. Let me remind you, the copper allegedly took this, so the Democrats chased him around the bathroom in the National Assembly. When the checkup was carried out on that alleged single polling list, computerized, not to tell you which data came out. They wouldn't let me take over, but in the service, I could have made an insight, and not told you what was going on. Should I remind you of the four rounds of the 2002 election, when the presidential candidates were, thanks to DS signatures, and Pavkovic and others? Of the 10,000 signatures, you couldn't find two thousand valid. All of this can go away unless there's a unique voter list. A unique polling list means that the same person cannot be listed in multiple places, even later, when they are performed for each polling post in the single polling list. There is no willingness to create such a unique computer document. That's the basic problem. Why? Because they need to be manipulated. Someone accused me of saying something that wasn't true this morning. You are all witnesses to what was in Gracanica, what was in Peca in the additional election. You have disbanded local self-government units of Serb municipalities to hold elections according to your own idea and four rounds of elections. Why? Those who voted in the King are now enrolled in the cancelled polling stations, whether in Gracanica, whether in a village, it doesn't matter, perhaps I make a mistake in the name. How is that possible? Anything is possible when DS takes it into his own hands. A few minutes ago, someone said they're standing up for some electoral system they're not going to be on the list to be president of the National Assembly. Who chose Natasa Micic as Parliament Speaker, and where was she in your list? What are you telling us? That's what you did. But, no, you throw a lie here and then it's like it's on the other side. That's all you've been doing. That's why you need absolute control of the voter list, and you have it. As you are now collecting papers on who will be the judge and who will be the prosecutor, depending on what your municipal board will say, so you have complete lists for all voters in the Republic of Serbia. And you're unmistakably sending blue, yellow packages, probably now with some virus, and these friends of yours are hiring. Imagine what things happen in Serbia? From your best intentions, you enter with some friendly country into some other business, and NIS is a good job. Then the government, this one here, takes over, let me say, powers over that part and immediately begins with abuses. There in Vrbas they say – there, we've hired 16 guys now, we'll hire these 60, just vote. She got hooked on the gas. Now you abuse strangers for your purely political needs. Where's the right to vote? Where is the principle – the same vote of each voter? Where's the free will? The Law on selecting MPs also has special provisions on the Supervisory Board, which should control what the media is doing, what participants are doing in the elections, in order to freely form the will of each voter, without any media influence. The first thing you did in December 2000 was – that committee does not exist. And today there's a obligation in the law, but it's never been formed. Why? So that you might be in electoral silence, two days before the election, to go with your parolees, a few months ago -- that arrest, and then the billboards, two Vojislavs, then this, then that. That's how you respect the law, as much as it suits you. Is it possible to pass a normal law on a single polling list? It's not necessary. Anything can be solved by sublegal acts. The whole matter is the substance of a sublegal act. Why? Election law is resolved by the Constitution and the Law on the Selection of MPs. What's a unique election list? Technical means, and they engage in special performances, so they perform for polling stations abroad, and now they show great humanity towards persons who are not in place on the day of the election, but are staying in some territory, so they could vote there. What happens when there's a house vote? I can talk to you for 15 days, I can talk to you about brandy and acidic cabbage on election day at the polling station, and about Tutin, where one man comes and votes for his whole family. The court case, I hope it's over, if it's not over, then you know why it's not. Who answered? How many criminal charges have been filed for an open violation of the Law on the selection of MPs? Who answered? Bata Bane in Nis. That's the kind of election you want, that's the kind of law you want, the laws with the hole, the laws that allow you discretionary authority to interpret it any way you want. Until a few months ago, the minister boasted that he was extremely smart when he came up with an article. 47, 49, 56. Law on local elections. What's he saying now? Now he's preparing the court for the Constitutional Court that needs to make one decision. What's that? The way you imagined it, the way it suits you. Where's the Constitution? This is a country where ministers give themselves the right to say – the Assembly can have 150 MPs; although it is a constitutional norm, it says – we can now go to the majority elections, and it is well written in the Constitution that a proportional electoral system is. What's that worth? You're not bound by anything. You're losing partners, even, from abroad. Who was the first Serbian minister in a separatist Kosovo government? Goran Bogdanovic, that's the first. Do you remember in 2004, who invited Serbs to go to the election? Boris Tadic, past Resolution and Declaration of the National Assembly, passed by 0.16%. Think about it, this Oliver Ivanovic is infallible, he's there all the time, working with everyone. Why don't you tell me who's in power at Gracanica? Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica and Tomislav Nikolic. Why don't you tell the public why the election in Leposavic was called? Is there any explanation for the decision? There isn't. For what? Two relatives following Goran Bogdanovic provoked people, someone threw a stone, and he says, "Oh, I'm calling this election, I'm disbanding this assembly." It's the law and it's the regulation. It's not the law, it's not the regulation, it's just your will. You're trying to sow fear for the citizens. You won't get away with it. What more citizens can you scare? What else can citizens lose that they haven't already lost? They're losing because of this government, because of this kind of manipulation. Look how many topics you've opened, you haven't solved any, but you're swimming on a specially formed public opinion that would be able to swallow anything you suggest, so, like, there's no other alternative. The global economic crisis – there is no other alternative. One minister says - we will earn, another says - we will fail, the third says - we will waste on a spoon. Did you hear what your minister said a few days ago? This agreement with the IMF is good, it gives us the basis to start solving this crisis in 2010, and the first good results will be felt in 2020. Will someone survive your reforms? What are you reforming? When you got caught, it dried up. You're doing well to form an independent state of Kosovo. You have prepared a starting position for Vojvodina, and not to expand further. They already know the citizens. You think you can, sitting in fear of the SRS, do something. You can't, citizens must inevitably sober up, come out of that story that was promoted on October 5, 2000, they have to. Is there more violence in Serbia than October 5th? It doesn't exist. Who stimulates you from abroad? Whoever cares about being bad in Serbia, they stimulate you, they support you, they praise you. Why are you being praised? Imagine, the one who dropped thousands of tons of bombs on Serbia praised you. He praises you. Why should I praise you? You're cheaper than a bomb. That's why I thank you. This law is unnecessary. All it takes is a sublegal regulation that would regulate the technical aspects of one computer system and one computer document, where every citizen could carry out an insight, where every political party and all participants in the election could make a change, and hopefully we will soon be able to explain the other part of the idea, which is based on CESID taking over the election. Remember, we had state commissions, we had election commissions where they were only holders of judicial functions, so it was the most trouble, so you burned this building down. Remember, people who are proposed before the SRS for an extended composition have always been expelled from these commissions. On September 25th, no representatives of the SRS were allowed in. Remember who didn't give. I can also show you the stenograms of all the sessions, as we consider a unique voter list. Then someone comes to us with a swan song. How can you fool us? How can you fool me when I'm the most directly involved in this business for 20 years? You change your mind from time to time, so sometimes you support my attitudes and attitudes of the SRS, and sometimes you don't support it. What's that all about? Of your current interest. Remember, Zoran Angelkovic, called Bucky, said what was nice on September 24th and how wrong it was that you didn't take into account all the voters who were enrolled and who voted in the KIM territory, I have to remember whether anyone was answering or not. He told the big truth. And who's in the mood now? Who's in the mood now? Experts for a set election. When did the DS stage a legal election? You can't conduct legal elections at your place. Six times in Krusevec, he had to decide who would be of MPs, as he said five times that he would disband them all unless his favorite was his chief ideologist. You're talking about some democracy. What democracy? For you, democracy is when a child draws a drawing, then writes down, this is a horse. Since you are now in this kind of drive against fascism - the death of fascism - freedom of Seselj!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30047	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. The presidency accepted Mr. Batic and Mr. Maras Slobodan, who applied later this morning, but not only to be SRS MPs, I now give the word, so Mr. Sreto Peric will after that. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30048	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I support the bill. I find this literary performance of Mr Krasic and his rather selective memory very indicative, since I am someone who has been on the political scene for the past 20 years and in some way I have witnessed history, at least when it comes to political events. I would like to remind myself of some things and some failures that Mr Krasic, knowingly or unconsciously, did, but not to deal with and deny what he was saying, but because there are some common facts about it. First of all, Mr. Krasic, you will remember that in time you said that your latter partner in the 2000 elections was "the greatest criminal," "the traitor", "the marriage couple of Ceausescu", "the red witch" from Dedinja"; these are the literary compositions of your party's president and I didn't dispute that at the time. The problem is, afterwards with the greatest criminal and traitor and the red witch, you've all joined the coalition. That's kind of a problem. You will also remember, and you mentioned it well, that there were elections someone won with 100%, or referendums with 104% of votes. You will remember that Milan Milutinovic won the presidential elections by voting for him by all voters in Drenica, Djakovica and in places where there were practically no Serbs, or very few Serbs. (Zoran Krasic: Why is it my fault? It's not your fault, but you went into the coalition with them afterwards. Also, this is the only country where the OSCE had to interfere, where the international community had to intervene, where Gonzales' report was, where Parliament brought a lex specialis, where the theft was recognised. I'm sorry that some of these people, who were symbols of these thefts, were amnesty, abolized. Some of them, even, are sitting in this room. It bothers me intimately. I speak for myself and for the Democratic Party of Serbia. After all, we have to remember that October 5th was organized for another attempted election theft, due to another attempted forgeries, due to another attempted abuse, and these are facts. But don't say anything now, making a parallel with today and then, which the birds on the branch know isn't true. Remember the lines for milk, for coffee, for the most essential provisions of life, for bread, for the peaches. Remember the empty shelves, remember the largest hyperinflation in mankind's history – a bucket and a bottle of gasoline on each corner. It's not DOS' fault, it's the blood of some other people, some other government, and now it's expected that we all forget it. I already said, "Forgive me," but it can't be forgotten, because it's elemental stuff. It's like collective amnesia has taken over. We all know what it was like. Nobody's crazy around here. When it comes to this law, I would appeal to the Ministry in one segment, and that's something that bothers me constantly when it comes to the electoral list, which should finally be recorded and brought into order. To mention once again, Mr. Krasic, unfortunately for me personally, as a participant of all events, October 5th is quite a failed revolution, not because it happened, but because it wasn't finished. That's why I think she's been let down, that's my personal position, but one of the biggest flows of October 5th is that the elections after October 5th have become free, democratic, which has no electoral theft. My appeal is to try to keep our people abroad on that unique list. There's a complete enigma, a complete riddle, and I'm afraid there may be more of them there today than here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30049	Two replicas, Mr. Zoran Krasic first, and then Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30050	Mr Batić, I fully understood what you say, however, it is not nice to use my name and the name of the SRS to describe the time of Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr Dacic, Mr Ruzic, Mr Mrkonjic and others. That's when I wrote the lawsuits, that's when I wrote criminal charges, I chased them, they chased me, they arrested me, they arrested me, but it doesn't matter. We finally managed to achieve something, to master some elemental democratic principle. Do you see how they affected them? Do you see that they've broken the DS? You see, Hope criticises us, only Covic to criticise us for 1996. How about Covic criticises radicals for 1996, or Mile Ilic criticises radicals for 1996? That's impossible. But here you go with a replacement of thesis, instead of saying it was a bad time. Whoever's there, come on, put Vojislav Seselj, the radicals, it's probably their fault, and that has nothing to do with the facts. We're talking about what's today. The motives and objectives to be achieved by this bill are not allowed. Evidence? So you see what you had in Gracanica and in Peca a few months ago. Everyone criticized that solution, so that whoever was enrolled in the King's overnight would cross over and be enrolled in a village there and vote again. Whoever did this is radicals. Well, we don't have voter lists, Mr. Batic, like you of DHSS don't have those lists, but I tried paintingly to tell you who waved everything on the CD, where there's supposed to be a unique list. Is it hard to build a computer program and connect 150 or 180 computers into one system? It's not hard, but you don't want to do it. Why? Because you don't care about the election will of the citizens at all, you care about keeping this power, and the tycoons will open up, to pay as much as they want. Why do you think there's pressure on "Vile Water," on "The mouth," and if we're going to legalize, we're not going to legalize? To raise money to buy elections, Mr. Batic. When will the election be called? When Boris Tadic feels it's the best time, when they've collected enough to buy every vote. They don't care about Kosovo either, and Vojvodina, and the standard, and the flag, and the Machine, and you, Mr Batic, and me, they care about 126 votes that they know about security, so these sticks, they're going to pick each other up. Who's the victim? Citizens and their elemental interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30051	Gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are on a thorough search of the bill on a single voter's list. Mr Miletic Mihajlović has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30052	President-in-Office, I suppose I have the right to reply, as an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, to be exposed to Mr Batic, who, in the presentations, is the most important political argument in his programme to win the SPS voters, according to what was his programme and authority in the past time, of course, in an indirect manner, and now. I think it offends the dignity of all MPs and citizens of his statement that once the President of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic, who he did not mention this time, did not mention his name, but in the context clearly that he thought of him as the greatest criminal. I remind you that Slobodan Milosevic received a large number of votes in many elections, by millions. It is therefore inadmissible to give such a flat-rate and subjective assessment, which is below each level, because at such a finding we could continue the story that some other criminals, including Mr Batic himself, who had been robbed by a car in Pogorevec and then took away an automatic weapon of Kalashnikov, for which he had no license, had already been illegal, etc. One might think that the criminal was then a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for that. Let me remind Mr Krasic to talk about the time of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Mrkonjic, Dacic, Ruzic, to remind you that these people were members of the SPS, but they were not in the front lines. The time mentioned by the SPS is now, it is their time and future time, based on what is political action and the SPS programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30053	Thank you. Mr. Batic first called, so you, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30054	First, if Mr. Mihajlovic had listened carefully to my exposure, or if he had listened to it, if he had tried to understand it, then he would have realized that I had not mentioned Slobodan Milosevic at all, in no context, but on the other hand, it seems to me that Mr. Mihajlovic is the last protector of the character and the work of Slobodan Milosevic. The SPS should go the other way, not give the heritage its new political strategy and its new programme on the face and work of Slobodan Milosevic. Then it's a mistake, but that's your problem. I spoke to Mr. Krasic, and I did not say that Mr. Milosevic was the greatest criminal and traitor. I was just quoting the words of Vojislav Seselj from "The Great Serbia" and quoting the titles of his books "The Marriage Couple of Ceausescu", "The Red Witch of Dedinj", etc. I didn't say that, because I mean much worse, but I haven't delivered any of my judgments at this point. So I think I'm misunderstood. I answered, and in some ways, I was thinking about what Mr. Krasic mentioned. I didn't even deny the accuracy of Mr Krasic's testimony. I was just expressing my surprise, how come after all these findings, which are quite accurate, some kind of political coalition with that same man? I don't mind, Mr. Mihaylovic, that you continue to take a pilgrimage under the lip to the Fireman. It's your right. That's your intimacy. I don't want to do history at all. History belongs to historians and let historians bring it to court. I don't see the need for you to talk to me about this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30055	Mr. Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30056	I need to correct some facts. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic was in politics as early as 1992, 1990, etc. I didn't say anything wrong. I support every man who has his own political stance. I may not like the attitude of Vladan Batic, but he has his own political stance. He's evolved now. He supports you now, Mr. Miletic. He doesn't support us anymore. He supports you. He's voting for your laws. You got him wrong. He attacked the SRS with quotes, which I do not dispute. It's crazy to argue with quotes. That's what someone else does for a living. Yes, Mr. Batic, it's all written like that. It's all been published. I know you keep reading our books, and that's good. You see, you're making progress. You know, I know when you were at the wedding, where you were at the wedding, but that's not the point. The point is to find a political solution. The political solution is that each vote is respected. That's the point. Mr. Mihajlovic, in 1996, I held 360 stands against the SPS and fell in Nis, but I was hit by a planetary disaster – Bane Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic arrived on January 27, 1997, and ruined Nis. I'm telling you very openly about these things. Do not defend Milet Ilic, my friend, from me, or defend Slavica Djukic from me. Why would you defend Slavica Djukic from me, when we probably agree 99.9% in political understanding. There's no need to attack me and defend one of me. There's no need. I'm making bare facts, Mr. Miletic. There is no Peter Jojic to tell you that he passed the 1997 elections in Gjilan. His car got set on fire, chased by socialists from the polling station. Did you watch the films we showed through Studio B in 1997, how your activists beat the SRS MPs who came to exercise election control? Those are the facts, Mr. Michaelovich. You can't change that either, I can't change it, no one can change it. It's been published. There are videos. I'm saying it won't happen again, Mr. Michaelovich. You have to endure these criticisms a little bit. You can't. You've made your point, so you're new. He can't. Everything has its roots. Everything has its own history, its future. That's life. Because of the future, I tell the citizens - stay away from this yellow wonder, it's dangerous. You see, it's some special hepatitis, it destroys everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30057	Three minutes. Thank you. I estimate we've moved to the field of political conversation. Assemblys and congresses are places where an evaluation of both the past and the present and the future of all parties, including the SPS, is given to my great pleasure. Mr Miletic Mihajlović. Excuse me, Mr. Gjorge Milicevic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30058	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of replicating it, I just want to make a few points, given that the SPS has been mentioned on several occasions in a recent discussion. What's the point is that today we're talking about a bill on a single polling list. As for the past of the SPS, I want to make it very clear and openly clear that we are proud of what happened before 2000. We want to affirm today everything that was positive, but also to learn lessons from what was negative and what was not good. The fact that some in their past didn't know how to learn is not our problem. The period of government until 2000 was clearly assessed when we felt it was necessary, that it was necessary, and everything else was history and time would show who it was and whether we were right. If we're talking about mistakes, one of the biggest mistakes was that we weren't aware of these mistakes in the period when we were in power, but after 2000. If anyone needs and finally wants to implement this famous October 6th, we absolutely have nothing against it, but it requires political strength, which requires a foundation in the electoral body. What is the basis at this time for the SPS and the SPS-JS-PUPS coalition in the electoral body, clearly state the results from all elections, extraordinary, local elections, which were in the past period, and in Kovin, Koseric, Vozdovac, Zemun, and which will certainly be held in the next time period, where it is also in the absolute number of votes, and a percentage double result compared to the May 2008 results. How do Serbian citizens assess the SPS-JS-PUPS coalition policy? It is a very clear response that citizens give in the extraordinary local elections held over the past year, and that is the only thing that is relevant and credible for us at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30059	Thank you. The word is Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Batic, we remember and how we remember the 2003 hyperinflation, we remember everything that was wrong. We also remember calling on the death penalty for at least one or 15 minutes, and that's why we're here, so it never happens again, even if it's not the guilt or the responsibility of the SRS. I also have to say something to my young colleague, Djorđa Milicevic, because he is mostly expert in discussing legal proposals, but today, on two occasions, he called for election results. Neither you nor those of the Democratic Party should call for election results. Do you think the citizens of Serbia are happy with the victory of the Democratic Party? No, they're not. They don't have any of that. They only have a hard life, and before that, and after that. One more thing to remind you, one witness admitted, of course, this time I don't want to talk about the process against the former mayor of Zrenjanin, that on three occasions he gave 45,000 euros to the former mayor on behalf of the Democratic Party, because he has confidence. After these, I don't speak to you anymore, but I'm just saying that you two are calling the elections twice, say, in Vrbas, and the Deputy Prime Minister has no better business and smarter than he has gone there to some villages; we also know that in Koserić, it has happened in all places. Serbian citizens are not happy after the Democratic Party's victory. That's why we're here and we're trying to tell them what's going on. Madam President, I understand when ministers here try to demean this home, it is today, I must admit, for the first time done by Mr Milan Markovic, as Minister of State and Local Self-Government. It's never happened to him before. He went into the political debate today, but we in the SRS can also talk about it, and we can professionally talk about legal proposals, which I will do later. You have accepted Mrs Gordana Komic's manners, as it is still a short break for which ministers are entitled to represent the laws here. We can conduct this debate without his presence, but he gave me a good clagworth in the middle with Mrs. Verice Radet, who was most professional in talking about this bill. Now I can call on some specific members he was talking about and deny, that's not so. So, I fully join what Mrs. Verica Radeta said about this law, as an authorised representative of the SRS, and Mr. Krasic, as the only participant who speaks in principle before me. What do they say and what do I think? The unique voter list needs citizens of Serbia, and the bill we have today in the process aims to affirm the exceptions proposed in the law, which will allow the irregularity of the conduct of the elections. I'm not saying it'll always be like that, but his essence and purpose is to do so. Someone here was saying what was foreseen in the first article of this law. We have so far had countless legal proposals and we say what will regulate this law. Now we're going to be able to professionalise on this legal proposal. He says what will be the subject of the law in all his 30 members. Already in article 1, it defines what a unique polling list is. It's nothing, I'm glad. Here's what Article 2 says. The proposal for this law, I will not fully quote it, but only one part: "The conduct of the electoral list by the management department includes: the analysis of data from the electoral list", as well as the update of other actions. I find this "analyzing data from the list of voters" particularly interesting to me. So we see if anyone's listed or not, what needs to be done. Will you ever, Mr. Minister, and your government, analyse the voter list by seeing that in the municipality of Mačvanski County, in Krupanj, a similar situation is in Ljubljana, in Mali Zvornik, as well as in Loznica, out of 18,000 registered citizens for the last census, 16,000 has the right to vote? Does that suggest anything to you? It suggests that only 2,000 of those aged from one day to the full 18 years. You need to analyse these indicators that you will get, or which you will have in the single polling list; nothing else could serve you as a serious analysis information. In Article 3, of course, all of this could have been regulated and it shouldn't have been subject to this law. Is it a unique polling list? Yes, I repeat again, but this is not a subject that needs to be regulated by this law. Perhaps Mr. Minister Milan Markovic didn't mean to, but so-called The civil sector, NGOs, has stepped quite a bit into this problem and wants the RIK to shut down as well. That's what the minister said, but he forgot the minister, and we haven't forgotten, haven't forgotten the citizens of Serbia, that until recently in RIK there was someone who was today the minister of justice, at the time, I think, the State Secretary at the Justice Ministry. What happened then? Is this a shortcut to some great mind and some great demand for change? Do we need to perfect our legal system? We should liken it to the real life of citizens in Serbia. Is that how we do it? No, we don't, or you don't. The desire of the SRS and all those who support us is precisely to imitate the legal regulations of life, the conditions in which we live. It is necessary that this polling list be kept as an electronic database, in order to connect each other with information systems based on a specific software, or user programme, which should enable the determination of the accuracy of all data contained in the single polling list, to prevent two or more times the same person from being found in the polling list, to disable the same for dead persons, which has not been the case so far. This causes particular harassment among members of the election boards, as others may not be able to look at the voter list for a particular polling post. But someone sitting on the election board, the day the election is held, can see, to find his closest relative, who has passed away, in the electoral list. It used to happen that even a few years before these elections were held, all the data relevant to the conduct of the elections would be recorded. There's something that shouldn't exist on the ballot list. Unlike those of you who have commented, although it is your right, and what the minister has said, you should only commend it in your own way, I have talked to participants in the conduct of elections that belong to different political parties, mostly to parties that are in power at this time. What about them? Because they're head of the administration, because they're presidents of the election commission, municipal election committees, and they told me that this supplemental information, the additional record you want to place in one of the data on the single polling list, related to polling stations, is unnecessary. I don't know, Mr. Minister, do you know, since you were born a Belgrade citizen, you're mostly here, that we have polling stations where the vote changes? For what? Very often, it is also in unconditional schools, where it threatens to collapse the building that very day. That's our Serbia, that's our villages. We also talked about the list of agriculture, but in a magical way, in a way that does not reflect the situation in Serbia. How are we going to change that if it's the subject of a single ballot? So, representatives of the Socialist Party, the Democratic Party and the G17 plus say this data is absolutely unnecessary, and I also think it should not be the subject of this regulation. Will there be co-operation between different authorities related to the update of the single voter list? The minister responded and said he wanted between the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Management, or what is called otherwise at this point, but, well, not to be precise until the end, the law is not passed in one day. In Article 11, you have set certain deadlines for the ministries to intervene and react, but you say – at the time of the elections, or the elections, scheduled, immediately. Why this level of alertness? We ask that all changes be recorded immediately, not prescribed and set some deadlines, which are very often misused. The right to go to elections, so active and passive law is one of, I would say, very important rights. We often, not the MPs, but the citizens of Serbia, in general, differ, sometimes this life and circumstances in which we live, so there is not the same treatment in society as someone who should treat us in such a difficult situation and someone who deals with agricultural production. When elections, on election day, are both academics and patrons, to say those in Vojvodina, or peasant, have the exact same meaning, the same importance, but you don't want it to be that way, because when elections, you go with your list, and not with a single state, I'd say, the state's electoral list. Have a good time with the polling stations, and then you try to blackmail people like that. Is there anything worse than to influence someone, to press them, to change their electoral will for a little bit of material value, which basically takes a day or two, or to change your election will, i.e. You create his electoral will. The exercise of the right by appeal, or appeal, is provided for in Article 13. Let it stand for you, but it should be something that will rarely be used in practice. The demand that the voter can be defined as voting on the place of residence no one supported you from those who are longtime members of the municipal electoral commission, RIK, election committees, which are either secretaries of the municipality, or perhaps management chiefs, who have participated countless times in the elections so far, because it can cause great, I would say, the greatest abuse. I can accept it and maybe it's a rational announcement the minister gave yesterday. There, students will not have to travel from Belgrade to Ljubovija, for example, to Blace, but will be able to vote in Belgrade. Elections don't take place, Mr. Minister, every month. They are being conducted, in principle, once after a few years, and it is a good opportunity for our students and others to just go to their place and visit their relatives and also vote for who they want. By what you said you're trying to create a gap, like, you'd like to allow our students to vote in the place of study, and here, representatives of the SRS are not for it. They are for students, or anyone else, to have additional problems with that vote. Traditionally, in Serbia people like to vote. They're especially preparing for that day. Let us do something, or you, as representatives of the government, that when they vote, they benefit from it. Have you won so far, I won't repeat myself in any way, in several municipalities in the snap elections, and did the very ones who voted for you benefit from it? Of course not. This is where you foresaw the funds needed to implement this law. They're not small. I have to be honest, I haven't been able to run an analysis of whether it's gone too far with the amount of those funds, but when it comes to you, when it comes to DS, I can, I have to admit, on a case-by-case basis. I see the dynamics of spending these funds. That says enough, especially when you say in your last argument that there are no means for communication systems and anything else. I initially thought that everything that was intended to be cash should be spent right in the procurement of communications systems, possibly, perhaps, as you say, in the education of those who need to finish this job. There is one more thing I must resent for you, Mr. Minister, and for the complete government, especially the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister. Why didn't you in one serious and different way warn the people of KiM what going out in these elections meant for this country, not just for them personally? They, under the difficult conditions they have there, can sometimes give in. It cannot be expected, after so many years of terror over them, and even by this authority occasionally, that they always make a decision. You should say – don't go to elections, there are no conditions. You should have been brave, you should have been bold and defend your country from such a place and say – in no case do not go to elections, you will do something that, apparently, Boris Tadic does otherwise, and wants to do for those who helped him and help him to come to power and who are still holding him in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30061	Thank you. First, the violation of the Rules of Procedure – Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30062	I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - insulting the dignity of MPs, above all, I am referring to the SPS MPs. Before that, it was about yesterday, I really apologized to all the people's MPs and citizens, because yesterday, when I spoke to the National Assembly, I personally addressed another MP, who disturbed me during my speech. Of course, I shouldn't have solved it by my address, but it was the duty of the chairman, who didn't do it. That's why I apologize to the MPs and the citizens. When it comes to what I want to say, yesterday I was talking about this law and the 1990s, and after the 1990s, after 2000, that there were mistakes and perhaps abuse of election lists. It is likely that neither the SPS members who were in the electoral bodies, such as other members, were immune, so I believe, nor the members of the SRS. I very much appreciate your honesty, which you are talking about, and it is good that Serbia has at least an image of honesty in you, when it comes to political parties. But be careful, because too much potential honesty is suspicious. If you're so honest and we're being dishonest, why did you join us in power in 1998 and 1999?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30063	Time. Thank you. (Miss Radeta, from the scene: What's the injury? ) The Dignity of the Assembly – he said. There's a word Mr. Free Maras. Here you go. (Miss Radeta, from the city: This is the injury of yesterday. It's in the stenogram, we'll see. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30064	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam President, first to you, because what you hear from the scene is quite standing. It is unacceptable for you to allow an MP to be called to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, advertising what happened yesterday, and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30065	Mr. Marash, the MP first looked back at today's atmosphere, and then he remembered that something like this was happening yesterday. I took care of what he said. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30066	Mr. Minister, I answered at one point, for the simple reason that you were not present in the O.R., and I know that you must have been prevented, because if someone respected this congregation, or loves, I don't mean in a bad way, to share their thoughts with the MPs about the law that it makes, it's you. You've been gone a long time. At that point, I asked a question that came to me as justifiable, although the LDP supports this law. I have expressed my doubts about the next thing – who will run this unique voter list? Whether it will be Belgrade's Informatics, which is now owned by the public company "Srbigas", or not owned, but the public company "Srbigas" bought a large number of actions in "Informatics". Why is that so controversial to me? I'm slow, I'll try to explain it slowly, because for many years there is an old debt that Serbia has towards Russia for gas. That debt exceeds the value of the company itself, "Srbigas". I'm afraid at one point, a Russian partner may come into possession of that unique ballot. That's why I expressed my concern that it wouldn't happen to be Belgrade's Informatics that will guide it. There's been a lot of exchanges, but I think some things are mixed. Fellow MPs tried to talk about some abuses of a single ballot, so instructions on how packages, shoes or gas connections are shared in certain situations, etc. They also mentioned the recent Vrbas elections, where all this was. We of the LDP tried to show all the absurdity of such promises or gifts, so we promised to be an airport in Vrbas. Of course none of this is going to happen, as not a lot of what was promised during the campaign there will happen. Whether there will be an abuse of a single electoral list depends, above all, on the intention. The point is to know who used not only a single polling list here, but also the election process itself, and was twice caught stealing – 1996 and 2000. I'm sorry that my SPS colleagues left the O.R., but they tried to justify themselves a little while ago and share that guilt with others in this room. The LDP will, undermining, support this law. We think it's useful, we think it's written in a way that requires the situation in which the voter list was so far. We think that the path you've set is good, but please answer my question – will Belgrade's Informatics have access to that unique polling list?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30067	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30068	Mr. Maras, thank you for reading the law carefully and for finding out what you've realized, regardless of its contents, and I'm glad you support the law. As far as leadership is concerned, it's run by the Ministry, it's a business carrier. You're right, someone's probably gonna have to apply that solution. Preliminaryly, what I do know is that in Serbia, JP "PTT traffic" and perhaps someone else is able to print out the copies in the number needed. I don't know anything about this company, about this Informatics, never showed up in any tender, maybe we had one tender for these two terms. I can tell you what we did with the parent books. My request was that the parent books work for a public company, so that they remain within the state. So hosting, paying, everything will go through JP PTT Serbia, so that everything stays within the state. It was my request and the government made that decision. Two reasons led me to such a proposal. One is that the parent books, which will grow in this home register, are data that are confidential in nature. Secondly, I think the public enterprise is capable of doing it on its own. It's someone of my own personal identity. If this definition is feasible for the voter's list, my personal definition will be to keep it in the public system, not to be with the private, although I respect the private sector. My definition, when it comes to this kind of thing, is that it's the state. In the surrounding countries, there is a slightly different approach, but in view of some atmosphere that governs us about it, I have defined myself, when it comes to this much bigger and more serious business – the parent books, to be in the state system, and we will see what it will look like for the voter's list. Kind of, you know what my commitment is, but we'll see how it turns out in the end. On the other hand, I shouldn't hurt any rights. If it had to go to open tender procedure, then it would have to. We'll see if there's any basis for classified procurement, or if they don't exist. If there are, we'll go to the public system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30069	The People's MP, Free Maras, wants a right to replication. Before he gets the right to speak, just to let the MPs know that, as a rule, we're taking a break at 14 hours every working day, we're going to work until the debate is over on this agenda point and then we have a break. People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30070	Mr. Minister, everything that has been done on your part so far has given me confidence that you are working with good intentions. I don't doubt your intention to trust such an important business to a public firm, but yet you have shown a real basis that there is a possibility that even a private company will get a chance to do so. First of all, it's because we have a vaccine situation, which is current. So, "Torak" was skipped, and it appears as an intermediary of a company owned by Mr. Miskovic. For this reason alone, I have volunteered to replicate myself to you, in this context that I truly believe in your good intentions, I believe that the path you're going is in the context of entrusting it to a public enterprise, quite all right and I think it's only right, but I'm afraid there is no abuse again, because it depends not only on your ministry, but also on the government's position, as the government's position was regarding the vaccine, as the government's position was regarding the approval of the "Serbian" to buy Belgrade's 'Informatics'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30071	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. She was last reported on the list of MPs. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 16 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30072	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of the public, first of all information that Kolubar and Moravia County, unfortunately, were unable to monitor this Parliament's work at noon, for more than an hour, so they reported; they had a picture, they had no tone. Also, for the sake of the public, I don't think it's nice that Mr. Milan Markovic wasn't present as we discussed the proposal for this law. Actually, not only isn't it nice, it's not in accordance with our rules of procedure. It goes to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's soul, who said here that the minister is giving some short interview in front of the press hall, but it obviously took quite a long time. It's not nice, because the minister has no right, nor does the MPs, to act like children—if I get angry, give me back my rags. We're doing our job here, we're doing ours, ours, ours. The minister must hear everything the MPs have to say about his work and about a concrete bill representing him. The minister, on the contrary, has no right to speak any political language here. The minister can talk about the draft of his law and that the MPs answer the arguments. He should be aware that he is elected by the congregation majority here. He probably has the support of the congregation majority now, and we don't question that, it's not a dispute, but everyone needs to know where he belongs. Also, to the chairman-in-Office's soul, I took the stenograms from the first part, when the minister, by doing nothing, made a series of replicas here, most harshly insulted the MPs and the largest opposition parliamentary group – the SRS, and there was no reaction. He's working the public again, just a reminder. The minister says, "You are still one smaller parliamentary group and a smaller party, and you cannot take on such a right. There are many larger parliamentary groups here, many bigger political parties, and if anyone needs a voice to be heard, theirs will be heard." Such an insult and such a threat to these major political parties is something unrecorded and unheard of. A moment ago, the minister said he was glad that the LDP would vote in favour of the bill. Well, LDP is a small political party. I have no intention of insulting them in any way, their legitimate right to vote for or against the law. We've also shown that we haven't made a question about what you've given Mr. Batić, and Mr. Maras, past this established list. We don't mind the fact that someone is a smaller party, and we don't have much of a problem with them being a bigger party. We, Mr. Minister, were, individually, the largest political party in the last parliamentary elections. By the will of Boris Tadic, we have stolen mandates. You're supposed to be acting as the minister in charge of the state administration. You didn't react. Despite this theft, we are still the largest opposition party in Parliament. Whether you like it or not, it is indeed your personal matter, but such personal assessments do not have the right and must not be presented here in Parliament. You have not reacted as a competent minister nor to the fact that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are not respected in this House, that Elena Christmas-Talijan and Lydia Dimitrijevic resigned and that these resignations have not been accepted until today, that someone, by their own free will, only because they have a majority in an authority, or administrative committee, makes them pass their will as MPs. That should be, among other things, your job, Mr. Minister. You can all who participated in the debate to say both this and that about the SRS, but never, ever, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has participated in any election theft, ever. We've always been the most honest and combative, to say the least, fighting every election theft. I'll remind you of the 2000 elections. In the municipality of Zemun, we had a president of the Municipal Election Commission, we had a majority in the municipal election commission. Dr Vojislav Seselj has lost four votes in his polling post since then to an anonymous young man from Batajnica. It didn't occur to us, nor did it occur to him to do anything, and if we were, God forbid, as representatives of these "yellows", we'd be setting that score up in no time, but it's not the SRS's manners. We want legal elections, we want a single electoral list, we want control of a pre-election campaign by the board of directors, and how many citizens they're going to give votes to, that's not a priority. The priority is to be consistent, politically moral, to stand up for your views, and citizens will evaluate each and every one of us, and that is the right of citizens. You, Mr. Minister, also, quote from a stenogram, that morning, out of your nothing-provoked anger, you said -- can't have a political party choosing over the citizens of his representatives in Parliament. You said something similar yesterday, so you mistakenly commented on what I said - that from yesterday's presentation all the choices so far were illegal and illegal. From this sentence of yours, Mr. Minister, it's the same thing. If you claim that the political party cannot choose over the citizens of its representatives in Parliament, then how are your DS colleagues in Parliament? Was that good then, and today is not good? Then was it in accordance with the law, not today? Mr. Minister, I have to tell you that in that little debate you got a little tangled up, like a chicken in a doghouse. There's one more thing I'm going to tell you, you don't know the basics. I quote you here, too, because you told me. You had no argument to prove it, and I will now prove it to you, or to the citizens of Serbia, above all. In the light of the draft law on the single voter list, you wrote that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 42(2). The Constitution. Mr. Minister, this member and that position in the Constitution are said to be collected, held, processed and used by law. This has nothing to do with the law on a single polling list, but with some law on the protection of personal data, but therefore, Ministers, you should have read the whole of the Constitution and if you had come to Article 52, then you would see that article 52 talks about electoral law and says – every adult, business-worthy citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be chosen. The second attitude – the electoral right is general and equal, the elections are free and direct, and the vote is secret and personal. Item 3 – Election law enjoys legal protection in accordance with the law. Here, Mr. Minister, you could and should have found a legal constitutional basis for the bill. In your explanation, you further say, 'Determination to regulate voter records by special law, and not, as has been the case so far, by law governing the selection of MPs, is based on the following. First, keeping voter records is a clearly separate procedure from the election process itself. '"Who slows it down? Many of the procedures regulated by the Law on the Selection of MPs are separate from the conduct of the elections itself. The decision to form a voter's committee is also separate from the election process itself. Does that mean you're going to propose a bill on election board members? Really, amazing. Next, what do you say? "The election process of MPs is only one of the electoral procedures in the Republic of Serbia, which uses voter records," and it stands in brackets – in addition, there are elections for the president of the Republic and local elections. Is this what you were going to say, Mr. Minister, that the single electoral list should not exist for both local elections and presidential elections? Or maybe you don't know that there's a subsidized application of legal regulations? I think you've had so much legal knowledge before. I don't know what's wrong with you today. So, what is not prescribed by these laws on local elections and elections for the President of the Republic, unless you change those laws, which is not impossible, in that part, is certainly subject to the subsidiarity of what is contained in the Law on the Selection of MPs. It's in both of these laws. It is truly amazing that you have come to Parliament today so unprepared. Really, it's not characteristic of you. Further, in your explanation, you say: "After the establishment of the information system, a process will be implemented to bring together existing voter lists in the Unique Election List, which includes the conversion of data from existing local polling lists, their harmonisation and the elimination of shortcomings. It is also necessary to provide funds for the definition and testing of the procedure for centralised preparation of copies from the polling list, classified by units of local self-government and polling stations, as well as for the maintenance of systems. ' 'Of course it's worth it. You predicted that this year it should be paid 40 million dinars, in 2010 – 170 million, in 2011 – 40 million dinars. This law, as you have written, takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication, is an article 30, in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and is beginning to apply after the end of the year from the date of entry into force of this law, except for Article 26, which begins to apply from the date of entry into force of this law. So, are you already telling us this job won't be over in a year, because you have to define some money for 2011, or does this mean something else? I hope you get involved in the debate, so you can talk about it. Now, in these few minutes, let me say something that my colleague Krasic spoke of – some of the malfeasances that took place in Tutin during the last presidential elections. We filed nine criminal charges against the president of the electoral committees because they apparently stole election will, stole votes, indeed, the second term cannot be used, and they steal it for the benefit of the DS. That's what people said, I have all these records, because I represented the SRS in the Tutin Court and I can make you quotes and decisions and records from those discussions. The woman is double-listed, 56th and 57th, with absolutely identical data. She intervened several times in the municipality. Every time they tell her, no, no, it's one more vote, just come and vote. She voted twice every time. That's what the court said, and the court says it's no big deal, because it's just one vote. I'll state the case of a woman who says she never went to the polls in her life, that her husband votes on her behalf and on behalf of other family members every time. The judge says, well, you know, I know that's how it is, but it's in this neighborhood of custom. You tolerate all this and you know it. There's little time left, but at least let me start with Article 1. It's a bill of law. In Article 1, you wrote: "The unique electoral list, in the text below, is a voter list, is a public document which keeps records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote." We have already interviewed this 1st member of the amendment and suggested that it be written that it is a list containing a single census of citizens of Serbia, in order to draw attention to the need to report on a single polling list, rather than some set of individual lists per unit of local self-government. We have not yet received the Government's opinion on our amendments and I am very interested in how you will react, will you accept this amendment and thus acknowledge how wrong your concept is, or will you reject it, and with what explanation? I repeat what we've been saying all day, a single polling list is the basis for holding legal and legitimate elections. The fact that we're still in Article 12. The law on the selection of MPs has been regulated, the existence of a single electoral list, and if you have not applied it so far, says in favour of our claim that you do not want legal or legitimate elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30073	16 minutes and 30 seconds. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Minister Milan Markovic picked up the words. Before I give my word, I shall inform the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working after 18 hours today, by discussing the point that at that moment is the subject of our work. The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30074	I am pleased that we have come relatively quickly to the end of this discussion in principle and that most parliamentary groups have given up using their time, which tells me that the law is really well done and that there are not many reasons for controversy. As for these insinuations that we in the government don't know, we're unprofessional, etc., that goes for the last nine years. A few thousand acts were in the process, for all several thousand SRS acts she said we were ignorant, that we don't know, whoever suggested them, was this majority, or some other majority. You have to understand that we are people of modest knowledge, apparently, and humble minds, and that your extra-time and extra-space achievement, that legal range that is decorated in Mrs. Radetti, is denied that we understand, i.e. to make peace with the fact that we're not as smart as radicals. What are we supposed to do? We're just as sorry as we are. I didn't expect you to like this one of those several thousand laws. If you didn't like the previous 3,000-4,000 acts, you can't even like this one. When the previous 50 ministers, in different governments, who appeared before you, were ignorant, unprofessional and whatnot, I didn't expect to be professional either. I'm convinced you're really above us. It's something that we ordinary mortals cannot understand, so I will address, first of all, those who understand this lower level of discussion that I can provide. So this law is very important. This law provides security for all voters tomorrow. This law really brings us into a new era in our electoral right. The basis for this law is in that part of the Constitution that speaks of citizen records, because this is not an electoral law, this is a law whose essence is the record. Therefore, it is clear why, in our humble knowledge, the constitutional basis is in that part of the Constitution that speaks of citizen records. The state, based on this member of the Constitution, has the right to make such records. This law certainly does not belong in election laws. It is completely unserious to choose one of several electoral laws and put ten provisions on the voter list in that law. What's important for citizens, what they need to know, is that when this central voter list is established, every citizen, through his computer, will very simply be able to check where he votes, when he votes, which is the polling place, whether he's listed or not. That's very important. The code for each approach will be the home number, which is why the parent numbers should not be given to political parties. The second thing, which is very important, this list will be 100% up-to-date. I repeat, that because of irresponsible statements our citizens would think otherwise, in the Republic of Serbia the elections were both legitimate and legal when it comes to the electoral list. The polling list is 98.5% correct and that showed the analysis we did. Don't let us bring unrest into the citizens and tell them that the voter list isn't up-to-date, it's quite up-to-date. Of course, it's not a complete emergency. All we can achieve is a single voter list. What else is good for citizens to be passed by this law? It is that they will be able to vote towards their place of residence. Why make people go to their place of residence? Imagine a student from Belgrade who is studying in Belgrade who has to travel by bus for six hours to go to vote and come home? Why not let a young man vote in his place of residence? It's his only way to sign up. Given that it is a single base, that is directly operated in the central application, his desire to vote towards his residence will immediately be entered. It was a question of whether it was possible for someone to stay at the residence. It is obvious that it is impossible, because there is one last name in central – Marko Markovic, his data and notice whether he is voting at the residence or not, so it is impossible for that man to appear in two copies. That's just impossible. That's why it's a unique electronic base. Imagine the situation, this is a colleague from G17 speaking, a person with disabilities. Imagine how many faces we have in nursing homes, these are all persons with residence. You know that the election board is obliged to provide a vote for those persons who are objectively unable to go to the polls. Does anyone really think that the voter board from Medvedje will come to Belgrade and secure a vote by 11 o'clock on the person here in a home that takes care of such persons? Therefore, let us allow all our citizens what we have made possible for all our citizens abroad. Every citizen abroad votes at the place of residence, after reporting that he will vote. Why can't our citizen living inside Serbia do that? Are we that incompetent? I don't think so, we can do that, and there won't be any problems. As far as abroad, we had 55,000, 56,000 persons in a special record for voters abroad. It's a number that's probably far less than the number of people who have the right to vote, to vote abroad. We had 56,000, and in the last election, only 18,000 voted. Now we will no longer have such problems, because the same provision applies to them, that they, depending on their own desire, report whether they will vote at the residence or residence, so that we will know exactly. Practically, it's coming, I don't know exactly how long before the election, so I don't count deadlines now. We'll know exactly how many people will vote abroad. Twenty days before that, we will know exactly the number of people who will vote abroad. We'll know exactly where those faces are, where the polling stations will vote, so it won't happen if we open the election board somewhere without anyone voting. Question - who's running this? This is the first law that clearly defines who leads, how it leads. Head of the Department of State and Local Self-Government. How's the connection going? It's done by defining this law. Someone asked - why the law now? Because no one has adopted him before. Why hasn't he been adopted before, I don't know. Why hasn't anyone worked before, either, I don't know. Someone asked – why isn't it in the previous term? Well, because in the previous term, the Ministry had eight laws before this assembly in eight months. It's just that the time has come. It's good to do it. It would be bad enough if we didn't do it now and remain the situation it's been. There's a reference to the parent's books. It's progressing quite well. The motherbooks will have an electronic database. It'll be the electronic base of all citizens tomorrow. I was just talking about it. I expect that in April, let's say, someone from Leskovci, if the game is found in Kragujevac, will be able to go to the city administration in Kragujevac and take his birth certificate. I expect we'll have that system in the spring. When he takes that copy, he'll never need to take it again. It will be permanent, protected, on a special form that works for the Banknote Office. It will be until spring, and within two years, I hope, for every municipality and every citizen in Serbia. We'll all be in one register and then there'll be an opportunity for what's often mentioned, when we come to some counter and say that we want to do something, we file a request, there's no need for that guy from the counter to say, bring a copy from the books, so not even older than I don't know how much. No, because then with his code he goes into the central database and pulls my data, my request, my approval that he can pull my data from the central database, and it goes extremely well and thank those colleagues who mentioned it. What is Corridor 10 in real infrastructure, Corridor 10 in the state administration and essential reform is the Law on Parent Books. He's gone quite undetected and it's perfectly understandable that people are not interested in matter, but believe me, it's the future E administration for the 21st century. Basically, that's it. I'm sorry that the discussion at certain times went off the table. This really is a law where it's obviously a maximum possible consensus, I say, maximum consensus. I don't believe anything is more possible to achieve. This is one of those laws that got the greatest consensus possible, in terms of the general content of the law. Of course, I respect certain different ideas. Some of them are very respectful. The question is, are they enforceable at this point? We have different opinions about these things. We'll talk about it when they're amended. In any case, if one part of the discussion is excluded, I think we had a very nice discussion and that the citizens could hear what was expected and what was good for them by introducing a single voter list. So, the voter list as a unique record for all voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30075	Right on the line, the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30076	Thank you. The minister once again said he wanted to address only one number of MPs, he said to those who understood him. I suppose, Minister, that you were thinking of those who would vote for your law, so I remind you to look that you have only eight people in the O.R. who will vote for this bill right now. Of course, that's your problem. It is not true, Mr. Minister, that we are without reason criticising the bill's proposals. It is true that we do not vote in favour of government proposals, because we are the opposition, but you have repeatedly experienced talking positively about some parts of your laws, the proposals you have represented here, and your behaviour in the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, our people say, according to the saint and the troupe. Do you think we're going to let you insult us and then, as an offended bride, run away from the O.R., and we're going to crumbly praise something that doesn't look like the law. This is a regulation, Mr. Minister, whether you like it or not. Mr Minister, before you run away so rudely, tell us, of the several thousand laws you've passed, I just don't know which country, how many apply, how many applicable laws have been passed in this House? What Mr. Minister said could be voted in the place of residence, among other things, so that students could vote in the place where they are currently studying, is not the real reason. The real reason is the smaller cost of DS. The Democratic Party of Milan Markovic is the one who buys people, pays for transportation, pays for sandwiches, pays for some of the votes of people who take them to their place of residence. That's the only reason this is going to happen. It's a story about a vote abroad. If the minister had just said that 50,000 people should have voted and that only 18,000 people had the opportunity to vote abroad, wouldn't that cast a shadow on the election so far and the legitimacy of the elections so far? It is not true that any Serbian citizen who lives temporarily abroad could vote. Only those employed in consular-diplomatic representations and those who were known to have voted in advance for the DS could vote. It's a public secret. Everybody knows that. The minister is now trying to tell us fairy tales, like we're the Tron Rose, so we just woke up from a deep sleep. We know you, Mr. Democrats, excellent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30077	Three minutes. Thank you. I am obliged, on the basis of Article 27, to remove any delusion from what is said in this room. The legitimacy of the choice cannot be associated with turnout, and I ask you to choose your words carefully when we talk about the legitimacy of the choice. Exiting can be a reason for declaring the election unsuccessful only if the law provides a provision that a certain percentage of the total voter's body is required. I find it important to repeat this because, if anywhere else, there are in this house, in the National Assembly, the Law on Elections and the Unique Election List of Important Themes. This concludes our work in the morning. (Employment of the Verica Radeta, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) We continue at 15.35 p.m., moving to a principle debate on the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move to the 23rd item of the agenda - Proposal for A LAW ON THE EVALUATION OF POLOVA (debate in principle) I hereby inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of proposing Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, called for the members of Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Natalija Micunovic, director of the Directorate for Gender Equality at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: Nikola Krpic – Pubic Group of PUPS, Elvira Kovac – The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, Natasa Micic – MP's Group of LDP, Miletic Mihajlović – SPS-JS MP group, Milica Vojić-Marković – MP group of DSS, Jelena Travar-Miljević – MEP group G17 Plus, Dragan Stevanović – SRS MP group, Bojana Stanojevic – MEP Group of ZES, as well as Milan Knezevic – MP group Advanced Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to present today the draft law on gender equality, precisely in the year when we have marked 30 years since the adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, which has ratified 185 countries, including Serbia. For two and a half years, the Ministry has been working on drawing up this law, which includes representatives of civil society, as well as social partners, with a fundamental goal of achieving the highest degree of agreement on the provisions of this important law, which belongs to the group so-called. anti-discrimination laws. By passing this law, we are completing the legal basis for further combating discrimination against different social groups, and this is also a sufficient basis for protecting and improving human rights in Serbia. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Articles 15, 21 and 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of equality between women and men, as well as the ban on any discrimination on any basis, and particularly on the basis of half. There are several reasons why this law is being passed. In them lies the basic meaning of the law itself. In February of this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality, and the strategy explicitly stressed that the adoption of such a law is one of the preconditions for the strategy itself to be operational and concrete in everyday life. Another reason lies in the fact that this is part of harmonising our legislation, especially in the field of human rights, with international standards and this law contains something that is the spirit of several important international conventions. I mentioned the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, the Convention Against Race Discrimination, and the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, the UN Committee for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, in its recommendation, at point 14, clearly urged Serbia to adopt a law on gender equality as soon as possible. In the end, but not least, I would even say that this is the basic reason for the adoption of this law, these are the devastating data and indicators that say that we have a significant inequality in everyday life between women and men, that these social differences and how they are exposed. For example, in all sectors of activity, men have more average earnings than women by some 16-17%. The male employment rate is 63 and the woman is 44%. According to the Agency for Business Registers, men make up a huge majority among directors, as many as 79.2%, liquidating managers – 71.6%, then company founders – 75.4%, board presidents – 8.57% and bankruptcy managers – 86.4%. All of this data speaks of the necessity of disparity that we have highlighted and the adoption of this law is just the beginning of a single process. It's illusory to expect that the law itself, in a short period of time, will correct all of this that I've been talking about so far. What is the basic purpose of this law and what is intended to achieve its provisions is to create conditions for the introduction of a policy of equal opportunities, equal opportunities for the exercise of women and men's rights, to take specific measures to prevent and eliminate discrimination based on gender, as well as the protection of persons exposed to discrimination. I'm going to say very briefly what the papers are in the bill of this law. I think that during the debate there will be opportunities to talk about the amendments that have been proposed, with the aim of improving the quality of this law. What the law particularly deals with, and what I would like to point out, concerns employment, social and health care. In fact, the area of employment is the central and most important part of the Law on Gender Equality. The bill lays down the content of a policy of equal opportunities in the field of labour and employment and sets out concrete measures to achieve gender equality in the process of work. The new solution concerns the obligation of employers, those who employ more than 50 workers. The original proposal included 500 workers, and, on a proposal from MPs, the number is now down to 50 and the government will accept it. Therefore, employers who employ more than 50 workers have an obligation to draw up a plan of measures to eliminate or mitigate the irregular representation of sexes and deliver it to the Republic of Authority responsible for gender equality. The purpose of this special measure taken by the employer himself, which is reported by the employer, is to ensure equal representation of sex in employment and in the process of work. The draft law defines a way of achieving the right to equality and accessibility of jobs and positions and determines the obligation of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities, as well as public services and enterprises whose founder is the Republic, the AP, the city and municipalities, to seek to provide, through employment policy, at least 30% of the less-represented sex in the organisational unit, as well as in the management and management and control bodies. The bill also prohibits favouring persons, given gender membership, in public advertising and the election of employees. In particular, the right to equal pay for the same work shall be guaranteed. The right to equal pay for equal work is linked to the work of the same employer. This rule aims to prevent unequal pay for women and men for equal work in the same employer and thus eliminates discrimination based on belonging to a particular sex, which is, unfortunately, present. The paper is also that at least 30% of the representatives of the less-represented sex are included in the membership of the Committee on Negotiations, which the bill provides for, in order to ensure that the collective negotiation process provides for equal participation of both genders. As the collective bargaining process identifies highly sensitive issues, such as working conditions and labour prices, there must be equal opportunities in this process for the participation of all employees, so that they can demonstrate their needs and achieve their legitimate interests without discrimination and on equal terms. In the area of social protection, in addition to voicing bans on gender-based unfair treatment, special means are provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units, in accordance with the law, to improve the material position of single parents and unemployed mothers. The possibility to provide for specific funds for these purposes is a basis for taking specific measures in this area, which would protect the position of single parents and unemployed mothers. Also, in the area of education, the paper is the principle that education on gender equality is an integral part of the overall education system. The bill predicted that curricula and education programmes should also have these contents. The achievement of this objective is also aimed at the obligation of the public administration authorities responsible for education to provide for such actors in the process of adopting curricula and programmes, textbooks, study programmes, teaching methods and normatives, school space and equipment, which will enable the implementation of equal opportunities policies for women and men. This legal solution represents a newspaper compared to the solutions so far contained in the relevant laws. It aims to make the policy of equal opportunities and gender equality an integral part of the educational process, in order to eliminate prejudice on the social position of women and men. As far as political and public life is concerned, equal opportunities have been guaranteed for women and men to participate in political and public life, a condition and a premise for the achievement of gender equality in the use of citizens' political rights. These rights and instruments for their achievement and specific measures, aimed at achieving gender equality in political and public life, as well as the obligation of the authorities to create conditions for effective use of rights in this area, are international standards, whose content is defined by international conventions, the signatories of which are also our country. The proposed solutions set out areas where specific measures are being taken to achieve gender equality – authorities in the Republic of Serbia, AP, the city, municipalities, political parties, trade unions, associations of citizens, international co-operation. Obligations by authorities, organisations that exercise public authority, institutions, as well as organisations and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the city or municipalities, and the specific measures they take under their responsibilities have been specified. In doing so, the law lays down the obligation of political parties and trade unions to establish every four years a plan of action to improve gender equality, as well as specific measures to promote equal representation of women and men in the bodies of the political party, or trade unions, and in particular when running for the election of MPs and committees. Also, there is equal representation of both genders in the assembly at all levels, which is provided by a group of special measures. Special measures concern the process of candidacy and elections for the President of the Republic, MPs and council members. The draft law sets out specific measures to ensure equal representation of sex in the executive authorities at all levels, as well as the authorities at all levels. This is a new solution in our legislation, as so far special measures have been established only for the selection of representative bodies, and not for the authorities of the executive authority. The condition for effective exercise of women and men's rights to participate equally and without discrimination in international co-operation within the framework of foreign policy is to take specific measures in this area. The proposed solution was new and there was no such thing as a legal system. International documents and comparative legislation provide for specific measures to achieve gender equality and international co-operation. The bill provides that the body seeks, depending on objective opportunities, to ensure that at least 30% of the representatives of the less-represented gender are represented by international delegations. And where gender equality policy is particularly achieved, at local level, some newspapers are foreseen. The proposed amendment of the MPs on the establishment of a special body that will deal with improving gender equality and at local level has been adopted. A large number of amendments have been submitted to the bill. This will be an opportunity to discuss the day when it will be discussed. Certainly, we will be prepared to continue to accept any amendment that will improve the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30080	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters, Mrs Mojovic and Mr Varga, want a word? Yes, she has the word Mrs Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30081	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Committee on Gender Equality of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia supported the law on gender equality in principle at a session held on 27 October, most of the votes. Why did they support this law, and why do we need a law on gender equality? Because, as Minister Ljajic himself said in his opening statement, the policy of equal opportunities, gender equality and the development of a strategic partnership between women and men is a fundamental factor that contributes to the overall modernisation and Europeanisation of the Republic of Serbia. The improvement of gender equality, which strengthens the role of women in society, is not a requirement for special privileges, but a balance between genders and the building of harmonic relations as conditions for achieving the well-being of the entire society. The remarks which could be heard at the Committee's session and in the public debates and discussion of this law mainly refer to the declaration of the individual provisions, the generality of certain members of the law, the fact that certain provisions of the law are given in the form of recommendations, the burden of criminal policy and the non-sanctionation of certain measures, which threaten the principles of gender equality. I am fully convinced that by adopting certain amendments, as the minister has already pointed out, some of these remarks will be removed. When we talk about the generality of the law and that it does not cover the whole matter of gender equality, we should bear in mind that this assembly, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has passed a whole series of laws and regulations governing gender equality; I mean laws and regulations in the field of labour and employment, health, education, laws relating to family, marriage, and all regulations of anti-discrimination nature. This law lays the basis for a comprehensive policy of equal opportunities for the exercise of the right to equality, for taking special measures against women, for better use of expertise and creativity and, of course, for protection against discrimination. Compared to the existing laws, which were mentioned in the opening presentation, which I also mentioned in terms of the areas in which they were brought, this law brings some important newspapers. I will not mention those mentioned by Minister Ljajic, I will point only to two or three others. Special measures and safeguards against discrimination based on belonging to a particular sex, especially because of pregnancy, parenting, and particularly on protection against sexual harassment, have been provided. As we have already heard, social and health protection measures have been established and confirmed once again, and in this law, equal treatment in the rights and obligations of spouses and outside partners. What is important in the fields and cultures and sports, it is an obligation, which is first introduced by this law, that 30% of the members of the less-represented sex are found in the boards of directors and supervisory boards. Of course, this obligation applies to other public services. Regardless of the objection relating to favor, let me say, criminal policy, which, in some sense, is regulated by this law, but also by other regulations in the area of justice, part of the law that applies to that part, is, in the most part, civil-law protection. In particular, conditions are provided for achieving the necessary speed in handling, especially when it comes to domestic violence, but also to other measures of effective protection against discrimination. To conclude, by passing this law, Serbia will be a step closer to achieving one of the basic criteria of democracy, which is equality between women and men. That goal was recognised by the majority of the Committee on Equality, and I am quite certain that most MPs in the National Assembly will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30082	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs Gorica Mojovic. I ask MPs who have issued an opinion on the relevant committees, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Zlata Djeric and Momira Markovic, do they want a word? Yes, Mrs Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, and then Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Gender Equality, I have issued an opinion on the draft law on gender equality, for several reasons. This bill of law is anything but what you want to present it to. It is neither systemic nor historic, nor will it represent an institutional framework for improving gender equality. He can't be ideal, he can't solve all the problems of gender equality, but he can't be as you suggested. Not passing one of these laws for nine years, since you've been in power, can't possibly be amnesting your responsibility for it. The SRS advocates ideological and programming gender equality, as well as the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence, especially domestic violence, women, but also advocates the implementation of equivalent measures and activities if men's rights are discriminated against. Men play an important role and responsibility in the process of achieving equality and equality. The law has a lot of discrepancies, inaccuracies and inconsistencies. You're saying that sublegal acts will solve it. You can handle some things by sublaw, but you can't solve key things. In view of the fact that the matter regulated by the draft law is multidisciplinary and that it enters into a variety of social areas and relationships already governed by existing laws, legal norms must be harmonised and must not be contrary, in order to ensure legal continuity and legal certainty, which is not the case with this proposal. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments, saying what our opinion and attitude are. Some Serbian citizens know that we want to contribute to the improvement of this law and that it can be applied in practice, not that it remains a dead letter on paper. I was drawn by a member of the 24th Law, which refers to health care. I quote attitude 2: "The Republic of Serbia provides women with health care by establishing health institutions at the primary, secondary and tertiary level." This bill has left out one very large population and, I can say, very discriminated against, and these are men. Women in Serbia account for 51.4% of the total population. According to the results of the Republic Statistics Institute, in 2006, the average age for women was 75.9 years, and for men five years less than 70.6 years. What's devastating and worrying is that at the age of 30 to 50, men die twice as much as women. One possibility of reducing the death of men is that they, as well as women, are provided with prevention, early detection of disease, health care by establishing health institutions at the primary, secondary and tertiary level. Research has shown that 35% of Serbian residents used health services in health institutions in 2007. The female population used them much more than a male. These criticisms are focused on the bill in the field of health care. They do not aim to achieve equal rates of mortality and mortality in women and men, but to provide equal opportunities, in order to preserve health and access to health services. Finally, if you want to institutionally edit a sensitive and important area of human rights such as gender equality for the first time, I think you need to formulate the text of this legislative proposal in a much more responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30084	Thank you. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word, then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when a bill like this comes before MPs, the first thing we have to ask ourselves is always the motivation to pass a law like this, because there are laws that are systemic, there are laws that are life and immediately needed, and there are laws that are declarative. This is one of those declarative laws that we are told are one of the conditions for entering the EU. I'd rather say it's one of the excuses, not a condition, because the content of a concept that implies a condition and the content of a concept that implies an excuse is two different content, and we all know that well. It's not about the quantity of the law, it's about their quality. This law has many members who are basically full of hypocrisies to those who should be protected. We put certain amendments on those members. I hope there will be a hearing to be adopted, because without it, the law will really remain just a dead letter on paper. First of all, the law is contained in words and every word must be clear, precise, accurate and applicable. When you use, for example, the verb "powers", it doesn't bind anyone. We've asked for some specifics to use the verb "must." Then it's the law and then he's binding on everything. It's just one of the examples I wanted to give you. We have already passed one anti-discrimination law, and it was meant to unite all forms of discrimination, racism, eideism, Juvenism, nationalism and confesism, sexism, linguism, and this problem that we wanted specifically to single out and that we are constantly interpreting as a problem of women discrimination. First, gender equality is a permanent category and permanent inequality, which no law can amend. In fact, we need to regulate other imbalances that occur in the organisation of the state and which are being misused in different ways. Serbia has not had a history so far, at least in its recent history, the problem, and mostly as a state, regardless of who was in power, had the same attitude towards men and women. Women have never been more vulnerable, I'm telling you as a woman, until the moment they started talking about their rights. Now, at the same session, look at cynicism and hypocrisis, we're talking about this law, and we're passing two more laws -- about reducing the administration in the republican and local self-government, and we know that it's mostly women who are employed, because these are the perceived differences that have led to some differences in the division of work, and that they are the ones in the largest number of jobs, so there are indications that some restrictions are also in education, where women are also women. Now I'm interested in how this law will protect all women who will come under the influence of these laws, and these laws, as far as I've seen, are very clear, precise and applicable, indeed, lifelike. What this law does not treat, so I say it is declarative, is that it did not deal with the very real position of women, because if it did, there would be some other analysis that must come from one of these laws and we would be aware that women are the greatest victims of this revolution that we call transition. No one has ever met Serbia's public with what has been the real consequences for women who have extorted and in some way brought about such a law, and the consequences of the transition period. How many malignancies are increased among women, exactly percentage, correct number? These are the figures that exist, which are ruthless and concrete. Since when does that number increase? How many patients are suffering from depression? How many women are left out of work every day without basic economic security, and we know that women are very important to feel equal in society? Another interesting piece of information, Mr. Minister, you might want to consider informing the public of Serbia. Since we have been witnessing lately that a brand has been made out of hunger and is constantly advertised that we need a double number of popular cuisines, that 700,000 are hungry, unfortunately in this unfortunate Serbia, how many women are going into the folk kitchen? Imagine how they feel when they go with the cane to get some food rations. Really, can you imagine that feeling for a proud Serbian woman? This law does not address fundamental existential issues, and it will remain only declarative until the end, unless it resolves the issue of existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30086	Time. Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30087	If this law had been passed so far, I think the president of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's assembly would have fit this law because you attended a typical violation of gender equality rules. Of the four of us who took the stand, the three ladies and I, all three spoke before me. I think this is a typical example of breaking gender equality laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30088	Mr Markovic, I must tell you that the MPs who had previously received a word from the Committee on Gender Equality, which is the parent committee, and you have issued an opinion on the Committee on European Integration when considering the Bills, and that order was in line with these facts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30089	I saw something was wrong. So, I'm not okay with the board, otherwise this is all okay. As a member of the Committee on Gender Equality in two terms, I think I have a lot to say, because in those two terms, I seem to have made a contribution to raising gender equality by at least one step in the state of Serbia. I don't think this law answers any basic questions when it comes to gender equality. First, the law would have to create conditions to prevent discrimination and ensure equal sex relations in every place and in every situation. This law provides neither legal nor any other equality. Secondly, the law would have to prevent abuses and going to other extremes, and it seems to me that we, as we were brought by that wave, that the sooner gender equality and legal arrangements, went to another extreme, and you'd be able to, breaking even language, and grammar, and normal speech on the street, meet now, say, terms, these are the liquids of a radical understanding of equality -- "the ambassador," not "the ambassador," "psychology," not "Mrs. Psychologist," "the lawyer," "psychiatrics." They haven't found a name yet, since we have women soldiers in barracks, I assume they'll be called "soldiers." Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? All absurd to absurd. Equality is not achieved by name, noun, word. Equality is achieved slightly differently. The equality is not achieved by these safe houses you've built, so now we've got an anti-substance, so there's a safe house in Jagodina for men. The man was in a house with more than a second half, not to say female sex. They beat him up, he came out of the house and formed a safe house for men. Thirdly, what is most important, this law does not contain the most important members of a binding norm, but only comes down to—it is necessary, it should be desirable, it should, it is due, or it is due, etc. I will, since my time is short, just to look back at these members who regulate the criminal provisions, to show you what an absurdity it is. The fines from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars will punish the institution, or from 5,000 to 15,000 responsible persons, if it makes gender-based discrimination regarding the conditions for admission and refusal of admission to the institution. Someone's gonna refuse to hire a woman just because she's a woman, she's gonna pay 5,000, and nobody's got a legal form. In conditions and opportunities to access permanent education, someone who is a director, and to be, say, a male chauvinist at a company, only men will send for education, and they will pay 5,000 for it, because they did not allow a woman who is employed, who is a worker, or a schooling, or a training. For example, Article 54 is particularly symptomatic. "The fine of between 10,000 and 100,000 dinars will punish the employer for a violation of the legal personality if he violates the provisions on equal pay for the same work of women and men." So someone will decide to pay half the labour price to a woman less than they pay men and for it will be fined by 5,000 dinars. (President: Time. Let me finish. Minister, it seems to me that this law should be completed and only then brought before the MPs, because we are one of the most serious institutions, institutions in the state. I don't think this law will do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30090	Thank you. Do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) First of all, Mr. Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30091	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I express my satisfaction as PUPS MP that the draft law on gender equality today is being considered in a comprehensive way, in today's session of the National Assembly. Consideration of the Law on Gender Equality, with the active participation of all, from legislators, above all, through the working bodies of the National Assembly and the Committee, to every citizen and citizen concerned by the provisions of this bill, enables improvement of the legal text. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Art. Fifteen and twenty-one. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia guarantees equality between women and men and develops a policy of equal opportunities, as well as that they are all equal before the Constitution and the law, that everyone has the right to equal protection, without discrimination, and that any discrimination is prohibited, directly and indirectly, on any basis, and particularly on the basis of gender. To remind ourselves, these are the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the internationally adopted act, and this is: the General Declaration on Human Rights, adopted in 1948, the Convention on the Political Rights of Women, adopted in 1952, the Civil and Political Rights Pact, adopted in 1966, the Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted in 1966, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, adopted in 1979, the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action of 1995, the Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Dangers and Armed Conflicts, adopted in 1974, the Declaration on the Elimation of Women of 1993, the Universal Declaration on Democracy of the UN, adopted in 2000, as well as the Declarations, Resolutions and Recommendations on the Rights of the Rights of the European Parliament and the Laws of Human Rights and the Laws of the Laws of the European Parliament, the Court of Justice and the Laws of Justice of the European Parliaments, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice, the European Parliament and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Parliaments, the Europeans, and the Court of Justice, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice and the Europeans, and the Courts, and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Europeans, and the Courts, the European Union, and the Courts, and the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the European Parliament of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Parliaments, the European Parliaments, and the Courts, and the Courts, and the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Europeans, and the Court of the Court of the European Parliament of Justice of the Court of the European Parliament of the European Union, the Court of the European Parliament, the Court of the Court of the European Parliament, and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the European Parliament of the European Union, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Union, the European Court of the European Union, the European Union and the European Parliament of the European Union, the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, the European Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the European The PUPS believes that the importance of adopting this law is very important and urgent, because of countless facts. Women are in a much more unfavourable position than men, both in private and in public life. In this respect, it is necessary to remove the consequences of large discrimination and marginalisation of women. It is necessary right away, tomorrow it is already late, to repair the difficult position of women in all areas of social life, including here, in the National Assembly. We are the last in an environment to pass a law like this, and in voting day, we need to adopt it. Why? Because, above all, it is a constitutional provision, because it is an international obligation, because it is a European standard, because it is an element of the modernisation and democratisation of society, because it is a condition for faster, more uniform and more efficient social development, because it is the way to improve social status and women and men, because of employment, social and health care, because of family relations, because of education, culture and sport, because of political and public life, because of judicial protection. This way, it obliges all public life factors to lead an active policy of equal opportunities and ensure synergy of action. Gender equality is also ensured when running for elections, all functions and all appointments in public authorities in the Republic of Serbia. The improvement of women's position is a common goal, to which our country has committed itself in several laws and strategic documents, such as: the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, Millennium Development Goals, the Strategy for poverty reduction, the National Sustainable Development Strategy and the National Strategy for improving women's position and improving gender equality. We believe that, from the point of view of the application of these laws and documents, it is extremely important that each local self-government is obliged to establish an institutional mechanism, i.e. a body that will deal with issues of gender equality, monitor and assist the application of those laws and strategies at local level. Therefore, we urge you to allow all local self-governments to take an active role in improving the position of half the population of Serbia. Today there are only seven municipalities in Serbia, Žitište, Stararari, Prokuplje, Kragujevac, Senti, Stari Pazova and Somboro. The President-in-Office, as a member of the PUPS, and with your help, I have had the honour to attend a round table with a group of MPs in Nis whose theme was "the equality of sex with the support of the UN" and to realize at that meeting that our citizens expect this law to be adopted by the government and our MPs. I can assure you that PUPS MPs, in the voting day, will vote in favour of this law, for the reason that Serbia will realise the commitments undertaken, as well as the constitutional commitment to achieving a policy of equal opportunities, thus ensuring the achievement of both genders' creative potentials. The adoption of this law provides a legal framework for the work of new bodies and institutions dealing with the protection of victims of violence and the resolution of the resulting aspects of discrimination. Women's shelters, safe houses, have just accepted women who have failed to protect their rights through the system of institutions, because women are more often left out of work, they are not entitled to property, they do not have legal assistance before the court, which makes it impossible for them to exercise their rights. The existence, i.e. the vote of this law, will allow the institutions of the system to deal with the problems of the position of women and create equal chances for members of both sexes. The President-in-Office, if it is true that Serbia is the last country in Europe that does not have such a law, please my colleagues, MPs of the opposition and positions, to help them also to correct and supplement their amendments to the text of this law and to be unique in the day of voting in the vote of this important law, which, as I have already noted, the Constitution obliges that we have it as soon as possible. PUPS MPs and I will vote for this law on the day set for the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30092	Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is another law for which the stars are now lining up here. We've heard nice stories, nice speeches, especially the previous speaker, what it takes for a woman to be happy. So, Serbian women, you'll be happy when this law is passed, you'll be overjoyed, and you won't have any more problems, because this is a law that leads you to the EU, because European law and will bring happiness to you and to your family, to your children and to your husbands, everyone will be overjoyed. It's not like that, gentlemen. What luck is there in one family if they don't have an apartment, if they don't have a job, if they don't have a baby for breakfast, if they're all poor, if they know they're going to be out of a job next month? You can pass thousands of laws that we will promote here and tell empty stories and, of course, bring them some happiness, because we grab to the EU with the mass of laws we have passed, now we will adopt 60 laws and that is capital for Serbia, and when we ask – why one problem is not solved, you say – epidemic, global crisis, these are major problems. So this is one of the laws to make EPP, to tell an empty story. No happy family, no happy wife without a roof over her head. How is it that every woman, every single mother, every wife of a dead fighter, a disabled person, gets to the roof over her head? What about these projects? They've been talked about for months, none of them solved. At least I didn't hear. Don't think that one woman is happy or one family is happy if someone goes to see her and takes away her computer and gifts. That's way out of line. We've seen it a thousand times before. Look at your leaders from the ruling coalition. How did Gilas allow women to be humiliated so much in Big Brother and Farm? These are your works, your masterpieces, gentlemen. That guy over there wants to beat up that lady, and publicly, all of Serbia is watching. So let's not make empty laws, tell empty stories, because in a house where there's an empty plate, there's no luck. There is no law there that will make a woman happy, there is no law that will make a child happy, etc. How many new jobs are open this year? How many new companies? How many companies were taken out of bankruptcy? How many Gigant companies around Serbia, which have not worked for years, have been launched? Almost none, gentlemen. What does the Minister of Economy do? What does he do? Now he's done all the work, so he's gonna buy, so he's gonna build highways, and that's all he's missing, tourism, even development, everything alive. How can a woman be happy now, when you talk about epidemics, talk about flu, and she doesn't have dinars? I was in Leprechaun the other day. The mother who took the child to a kidney transplant doesn't have a hundred dinars, let alone a bus ticket. How do I find a donor? How can he pay? How can he do that? Where, gentlemen of the government, are you to come across with a variety of funds, but just come in, cut yourself down, say you're passing European laws. Of course you pass European laws, but there is no way in the EU to enter before 2014. How do you survive these five years? How will a woman in the country be happy if the price of milk is 15 dinars? How will she be happy the one who had orchards, cherry, if it was a ransom price of 12 dinars? Survive from what? The price of plums is 10 dinars. How do you train your child? How can she be dignified? How does a mother who's waiting for her to get food feel to take her home for her child? How does the father of that family feel who has to watch it all, suffer it, because he has no job, no salary and has the same problems? Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, take it seriously. You bring the laws that life means, you bring those laws that will improve the status of life in Serbia. You bring these pro-European laws along the way, we all want to go to Europe, but let's do some work that is very important. We're not going to some of the funniest things and empty stories at this point when we're looking at the flu hara, the population confused, all terrified. It's dying in Serbia. Take as much as you can from Russia to China, how much more people die from the flu. Who got the tender today to import the vaccine? Mishkovic, it's him again. You have to go to Maxie's. You have to go check yourself out. You saw it. It means that your health care isn't working. Your ideologist, Mr. Miskovic, is a hat in this country. Why don't you entangle him? What are you ashamed of? What kind of ministers you have and governments when Miskovic is your main trick, as our people say. Whoever comes, the bear comes, he's all right. The American comes, he's in charge. It's all over the place. Every job, "Fiat," he's the chief agent. Now the vaccine's over it. Did one of the Torlaks run down and destroy it? Do you know what Torlak was in Europe for vaccines? The company's most elite, one of Europe's most elite. You can't move from him, he's got you locked up and he's not letting you take the air. So there's no good law here, and don't talk, we're wasting our time in stories, but come on, you're gonna vote all of this. No woman in Serbia will be happier after this law, no child. How can a mother have more children? Why is it a white plague? Survive from what? Take them to the People's Kitchen? Mr. Minister, 700 thousand people eat there. Come on one year, the other, but also in the most natural year in Serbia in the last 30 years? A kilo of apples -- three dinars, I repeat for the hundredth time -- that was never in Serbia's history. A liter of milk, a kilo of wheat - eight dinars, and it starves Serbia. What if it were a dry year, if he hadn't given birth as much as he had this year? What's Sasha Dragin doing? What does he do? You are now engaged in the Statute of Vojvodina, by transfer of jurisdiction. The people's doconies, the hundred responsibilities, the government is very busy, so they can transfer the Duke over a hundred responsibilities. Let's do it twice. Is Pajtic here the head of the coalition or is he Boris Tadic? Your chief ideologist, you know who he is. You were on his birthday the other day and you brought him, he's your chief ideologist, who shared calendars here for the new year – the Vojvodina Republic, publicly, and nothing. That didn't bother you. You'll get far with all the problems you're dealing with. You always find some problems. You pass a law of information, and after a month you are not fit by law; some are fenced, some have not voted, some have voted, etc. Where are we all going together? Of course, we don't even know about you. We don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. I asked a serious question yesterday, and you laughed here. Do you have someone normal to face this people and say whether to vaccinate or not? Do you have someone normal to say – women have advantages, pregnant women, mothers, single mothers, the only foster parents, etc.? No one, some say no, one that, one, will see, and Miskovic finishes his work. He gets vaccines, imports a man, works. Which hand is it imported from? Where will it be imported from? Through a Swiss firm, yes, but who's the manufacturer? It's being guarded, you don't know that. Can you do one job, gentlemen, in almost two years, correctly and in the right way? Here's the passport. You're stuck. Yesterday, there's a battle here to take out a passport. The simplest thing, but let's call for help from someone in Europe to help us take out a passport, so that someone doesn't take a very large commission and that the commission isn't late for years, but let's make that passport. Let's make one decision on time and time. The vaccine will arrive sometime before New Year's Eve, because the wave is expected next year, and now wait, so what God gives you. You're very disorganized, you have a lot of ideas, you're making a lot of laws that you're just covering for the EU. People, you work for Serbia, you let the EU go, it's one process, they'll take us there whenever they want, and you know what the condition is, Mr. Ljajic. You know what the condition is, you know well that they said – when co-operation is established with countries in the environment, and you know what that means. This morning, I listened to the morning 'Dnevnik', the KIM Minister. He said well -- Serbs who go to the Cypriot elections, to the Albanian elections, and vote cannot choose two states, must opt for one state. What are these two states? One is Serbia, we know that, and which is the other? I hope he's lost it, or he's got some better information that it's already over. Anyway, the man said it nicely, I don't know if any of you heard it, but Minister Bogdanovic said it. He said he couldn't go to the polls and that there was no policy in two countries, that there was no pay in two countries. What are the two states? Is Kosovo an independent state, according to Minister Bogdanovic, or was it not, or was it meant by another state? I'm not exactly sure. Please get serious, let's start thinking about why the empty part of Serbia, why people are leaving us. When this white Schengen comes, this youth will burst across Europe. We won't be able to see a young man on the street, how it went and how people are running out of work and what the situation is right now in the state. It's about Natalie not talking. Every year, a city of the size of Arangelovac, Gornji Milanovac, dies. Why? Because life conditions are getting harder and harder every year. We're getting more and more in debt. You can't charge a budget from a loan. Now it suits you to bring an epidemic into Serbia, everyone to rest, to die, to fear and to stop everything. Why? Well, you don't have the money to survive this year by the end, to pay off your commitments. I can't understand some people here, they've been saying, they've been discussing how they've transformed so quickly, that pensioners are happy that pensions are frozen. Do you know that the current will collect 25%? Do you know that gas is up 60%? Gas and oil, from New Year's Eve to today, are more expensive than 35 dinars, and agricultural products are cheap. How, gentlemen, to survive, it should be topics for this House, so we'll respect our beautiful ladies, but once we've secured existence, living conditions, conditions for children, conditions to live here normally. Maybe you're making a little noise, you've got world wives, here, this one's sharing with your husband, but she's got a good firm. You know how, you have an ideologist at the top of the party that has increased, since you're in power, traffic with his firm, which is shared with his wife, by 231 000 percent. They're a happy couple. She may be a lucky lady, but how many other ladies in Serbia have with such things? How to survive this winter in Serbia with this epidemic, with all these problems, with your uncleared attitudes? The Minister of Health, while a man, doesn't know what to do with himself, left the other day to run for the Academy of Science to get ten votes. Is he normal? If I were him, I'd resign at the same time. How is he not ashamed to come to the government? Is he coming, Mr. Ljajic, to the government? Ten people voted for him as an academic. What does that look like? There are a million health problems, not to mention a billion. Take a little more care and don't force some things; you've been busy all summer with that unfortunate gay parade. Now you start with the information law, then the Duke's statute. You forgot, Mrs. Djukic, about the gay parade. You said you'd fight, you said you'd be in charge. I was so disappointed when I read your statement that you'd be in charge, but what are you going to do? Therefore, we must fight that the family in Serbia has their dignity, that both husband and wife are decent people, that they do not embarrass themselves in front of children, that they can earn more money to buy them the most basic, to school them, to take them on the road, to increase their birth in Serbia, that Serbia is having more weddings, that there are more baptisms, and not like this, we will only declare some laws, put them in the box and say, here, we are ready for the EU. Well, we won't be there until we raise the standard to one level, until we reduce the number of unemployed, until we increase what they have set for us – the degree of infrastructure construction, etc. Gentlemen, two construction seasons have passed in this government. It's coming in the spring of the third. Don't tell too many empty stories that don't have any solutions. I'm going to ask you to put more serious issues here. Mr. Ljajic, sometimes I like it when you come out and tell some truth about the state of affairs, but don't get dragged into stories like this. Take it out to the government, as a resolution minister, and here in Parliament, that story, that we hear a little, too, to help. Don't expect anything to help those who just come here when it's voting day and raise your hand. Today the parking lot of the Assembly was full. When I got there, there was no parking space anywhere. Why, gentlemen, there are no MPs in the O.R. if the parking lot is full? What exactly happened here? Why won't the MPs enter the O.R.? This is now extraordinary that the ruling coalition has, I think this is a record, this is a hundred times higher than it is normal. The other day, with three MPs from the ruling coalition, we had a debate, and the previous days, when it was the Informative Act, there were five of you in the O.R. That's what I said in my presentation. You don't care about that. Now you're here, you think these smart women of ours, as I said last night, will just accept that you're taking care of them. You won't, that's where you crossed over. They see that this is a marketing story, an empty story. They know what life is, they know what they need, what their children need, what their husbands need. There will be no domestic violence if all family members have a salary, if they have a job, if they make a good living, if they have a roof over their heads, there will be a reduction of violence a hundred times, but if there are no dinars – everyone is electric, everyone is nervous, everyone will bite each other, just like you in the government. As soon as you don't have the money at the end of the year, you're evasive, you can't get together, but as soon as you have the money, ministers as you want, we can't accept as many ministers as we can. As soon as you don't have a dinar, you all shut up and run. Those key ministers must not rush into parliament. New Serbia has respected all agreements. We have over 30% of the ambassadors of women, exactly what the law requires. Now, here's the candidate for the Leader, over 50% are women. Gentlemen, how many MPs do you have in the ruling coalition, in the ZES coalition? You don't have anywhere near that number. How many directors do you have of women of public enterprises? You don't have any. You give them those resistors where they have someone, and you set up women to listen well. Set them up to decide. When will you propose, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the wife of the prime minister? Why was she never the prime minister's wife?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30094	It's been 20 minutes. Thank you. Otherwise, the law on gender equality is on the agenda. Mrs. Natasa Micic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30095	I do not agree with the previous speaker that the adoption of this bill is a waste of time, and not only because I am a woman, but also because anti-discrimination policy is an integral part of LDP policy. That is why, as a parliamentary group, the first in the procedure we submitted such a proposal for an anti-discrimination law, so that later, after a year, thanks to the votes of our parliamentary group, one such government proposal would be adopted. I am not saying this to highlight the merits of the LDP, but to point out how important it is to us in LDP to fight discrimination and to the one that deals specifically with women discrimination. But what is obvious, and what is disappointing, is that neither the institutions, this Parliament, or the government, nor the media have done enough to raise awareness of the necessity of adopting this law, that this is our civilization need. I would say that there are certain similarities in the manner and circumstances in which it was adopted and the general anti-discrimination law itself. I will remind you that neither this society nor this government, nor this Parliament have taken advantage of the opportunity to raise people's awareness that this is necessary for our social transformation, but instead the debate on the law was used to discriminate against a minority. It's a minority of a different sexual definition. What's worse, those voices that advocated discrimination were louder than those who defended her, and, in addition, they were supported by those who, in fact, did not understand or fight her for purely populist reasons. I will remind you, these were statements by the mayor of Belgrade, individual ministers, assistant ministers. It all ended so that those people, who had reached a legal guarantee of their freedom, could not walk peacefully through Belgrade. I'm afraid that, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of indifference, the lack of meaning, leads us to a situation that will be difficult and the application of this law. I'll only come from us, from Parliament. We know that there was an odyssey that this law was in the process at all, a multi-year struggle, and today it's on the agenda as the 20th point of the 54th agenda. Before this point is included a proposal that is contrary to the Constitution and the Expropriation Act. Namely, it's a law on pipeline transport. I don't know what else could have been worse, maybe if you'd combined the debate with some laws that were classified in order as the next item of the agenda, like. the mark law, or the protection of topography of integrated cars and so on. Secondly, the government didn't pay attention, didn't alarm society, and here, above all, my criticisms refer to the Secretary-General. Namely, one round table was arranged. The Committee on Gender Equality, whose member I was, was the organizer of that table. The minister did not honor us either to come to that round table or to come later, when this bill was discussed on the parent board. I think, Minister, that the one-time virtues of the acts you're dealing with are important, and I welcome that, it's nice, it's useful, but you could have sent for these individual acts the envoys, and for this one general act, which is reformist, which has the character of the system law, because it affects the overall transformation of society, it was necessary for you to attend, too, not to talk about that they didn't even have the media, so these meetings were conspiracies. My question is this - how do you feel about applying and implementing this law, since your ministry is competent, how will women ever get to know the rights that we guarantee this law? For example, how will a woman looking for a job know that an employer must not condition her family status, that is, by planning a birth, or how will she know that she can press charges based on discrimination? By reading the official messengers or by members of NGOs walking from door to door to explain it to them? That's not good, and I don't think that justification can be what's been talked about here before me, or that there are the priorities of this society. It is also to condemn the criminal policy that has been done on our behalf, it is also the fact that there is indeed present and poverty, and the economic crisis, and corruption, but all of this, if nothing else, affects women most, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, women have won freedom and the best results of the rules right at the time of the crisis and after the First and Second World War, or during the wars. A special objection to the minister, although, perhaps, as some kind of justification for his iniquities, might be taken into account that the authorised representative for this law is a minister belonging to a party that does not have a single female MP in this House. So, out of four ministers, none of them are women. In the 21st century, you started a new game. In that party, no woman is a vice president, of four vice presidents, all men. I think that some more conservative parties in this House, which respect the need for women to participate in the decision-making process, might represent and defend this law better. However, to all of this, to this ignoring, to this indeterminate relationship of the entire government, I would add that it would be good for the minister of justice to come here today, because there are excellent standards of judicial protection in terms of women discrimination, that it would be good for Minister Bradic here to indicate how much harm women and the whole society are doing to the media, because we are daily subject to humiliation, because the total of us in the media space has 15 per cent, and of that total, 25 per cent refers to criminal reports, where women are victims. I'm saying, given all the bad and indifferent relationships, the bill is far better than the government has set itself upon it. First of all, it is true that he affirms the policy of equal opportunities and introduces a new regime of gender relations, covering almost all areas, although not equally well all. It is true that significant shifts have been made with regard to labour, employment, social and health care, education, family relations, although I would also have some objections. Namely, it's about art. 13th and 19th. These are provisions relating to the obligations of employers who have over 500 employees. However, I have seen that MPs from the ruling majority and opposition have also submitted amendments, so I believe that this will be corrected and accepted. So we need to cut the number. For example, 50 employees to be the number in which employers would have to take care of gender representation. Article 19 refers to the professional training and training of the employer, while in Article 31, that is chapter 4, the title is – Gender equality as an integral part of education, in the 1st position, even though both the chapter and the title refer to education, you are diversifying and easing that obligation, introducing the concept of education. I don't think that education is less important, but since you here predict that it is an integral part of preschool, primary, secondary and higher education, as well as permanent learning, how do you think you are raising children, or young people studying? They're not children, they're people. This is where education should be used. I don't have much time, and there's a lot to say. I said, great are the provisions concerning judicial protection, actually, civil-law protection. I'm taking the opportunity to say, perhaps some women are listening, that these provisions are in mind and preventable, so that preventing further violence and stopping this act and, secondly, very well, predicts the urgency of this procedure, so that the court is obliged to hold the first hearing within 15 days of receiving the suit. It is also very good and positive that gender-sensitive statistics are predicted, so data management based on gender diversity. I would especially point out that the law is good at that part, i.e. These are two provisions that introduce associations into the state system. So, women's rights associations will form an integral part of the government's working body dealing with this issue, that's one thing. Secondly, women who file a discrimination suit will be able to assist, as involved, those NGOs. It's all been positive and there's a lot of movement. However, when it comes to provisions that regulate women's participation in decision-making, political and public life, in equal availability of jobs and positions, this law falls and we can say that this law, in fact, means - women honor, men's power, because they have not made any moves from the existing ones, so that this law is not an icer, is not even a lifeboat, by system, first women and children. Because the law does not even include the provisions that already exist in the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, although some other provisions are, for example, general norms on the right to vote, or in other areas of family relations, regardless of which they are part of a special, therefore subsidiary law. The other thing, and about that, I submitted amendments to the article. On 14 and 32, as regards equal availability of jobs and positions and equal participation in the appointment of members of boards of directors and supervisory boards in public services, the term "need to strive" was used here. Since I've been a lawyer, and I've worked both in court and in law enforcement, and I've been a MP for years in the National Assembly, I don't know how many laws I've read, but this is the first time I've seen that there's such a declarative provision in the law. This could be a declaration, or a recommendation, but it couldn't possibly be an integral part of the law. What does it mean to be "necessary" and how will it be measured whether he who is obliged to try to do so or not? It's got to be fixed. I have submitted amendments, but I have seen that representatives of both the ruling majority and the opposition have submitted amendments to this, and I hope that this issue will be resolved as well. As far as equal representation is concerned, I've already said there are no incorporated provisions that guarantee it. It could have been moved, not run as a percentage of 30%, but appointed. But, Minister, since I explained your situation, it's kind of understandable that you might find it difficult to defend it. However, we cannot, because of one individual case and because of one political party, drop such a chance, given that the last one in Europe is passing this law and that a shift should be felt in all segments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30096	You need to reapply. You have to do it again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30097	As for the participation of women in Parliament, indeed a shift has been made. Now we have over 20%. We cannot compare ourselves with Scandinavian countries, or Sweden, which has 47%, but, compared to countries in the environment, that percentage is not so bad. True, Croatia, Macedonia and Bulgaria have a higher percentage of representation, but is lower in Albania, Bosnia and Romania. To illustrate how women's participation is, in some ways, an indicator of policy modernisation, I'm going to say that in the 1990s, women were represented only by 1.6%. That's why I think it's important this percentage, that it's not bad. So some shift has been made out of democratic changes, but more could be achieved. The following observation refers to institutional mechanisms. So there are no, no local mechanisms, no body, no person to deal with these matters. The Committee of the National Assembly, therefore, my parent committee, is absolutely not included in this law. It's a big mistake, and in that respect, I've submitted the amendment. Okay, you're gonna fix it, just fine, because I don't think that, no matter how much they're capable, how big a job they've done, let's just say, the Agency for Gender Equality could be able to carry out business and responsibilities and responsibilities like this only within that one body. On the other hand, this birth equality administration has shown no understanding before. Let's say you, Minister, mentioned in February this year that a National Strategy was adopted to improve women's position. I'll tell you, we've read this strategy in the Official Messenger, and that strategy didn't go through the Committee on Gender Equality. That's not good. If that's how you're going to apply this law, then why is that leading to us? In my amendment, I proposed that the Agency for Gender Equality submit reports on its work and results at least once a year. Penalties are disastrous. Very mild criminal policies and those penalties, especially for the media, from 5,000 to 25,000, say, for demeaning, reminded me of Roman law, when the other free Romans were able to demean, slap them, spit them out, and pay them some symbolic sum solid. That's what this criminal policy reminds the most. I know it's foreseen according to these general anti-discrimination measures, but that doesn't stop us from fixing it. It can change and the general anti-discrimination law. We could do it now, within this session, to do it. Furthermore, there are no provisions concerning multiple discrimination. Here, first of all, I mean women with disabilities, then women with Roma women, women from the village, who today seem to still be subject to Serbian civil law on property rights, inheritance, with regard to the right to health care. To conclude, for us this law is very important, for LDP, not because it is a constitutional provision, which is an international standard, which is a European standard, but because this law is an internal need for society, one significant step not only for women, but for all humanity. This is a great day for us, but also for Europe, given that the last one in Europe, that is, in Southeast Europe, we are adopting this law. (President: Please bring the exhibition to an end. Here, just this, please. It is important and the most important because this law ceases the practice that only individuals and individuals, as well as NGOs dealing with these issues, make their contribution. Today here, on the day we adopt this law, the state takes responsibility for these issues. When I mention individuals and individuals, let me finish by just quoting Dosite Obradović, who said 225 years ago – let no nation rest forever until the sanctification of reason come in which women in simplicity and barbarism remain. If we do not apply this law, we will continue to keep women in simplicity and barbarism. Women need a chance, not charity. That is why the LDP will vote in favour of this law, as well as the amendments that amend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30098	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30099	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Group does not idealise solutions under this law, nor does it consider that this law will solve all issues and all gender equality issues. We have no illusion that one law, which is pro-European and which is certainly a step forward in this area, not a single declaration of such character, can fix things in Serbia, which, unfortunately, are quite different from what would be desired or how it should be. Traditionally, there is one consciousness, in general, in life today in Serbia, and it takes a long time for us to change this awareness and to reach a different relationship between sex and the position of a woman expected in modern civilization. The law itself belongs, as it is said, to the anti-discrimination group and regulates the Constitution guaranteed the right to gender equality. It's a foundation and a foundation. There was no such thing in our legal system until now, and it is good to consider it today. I hope we get it. It is also important that this is one step in that procedure in the process of European integration that we are seeking, it is one of the conditions. Most importantly, it seems to me to me, for us from the SPS-JS Group, that the adoption of this law is one step, of course, upward, in that direction and towards one goal, which is a civilization step, to achieve the position of a woman different than it is today. Such a policy was also created by the government, by adopting a National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality in February of this year. This is now the second step in that direction. All the research and analysis in all the segments of our reality says we have to work on this plan for a long time. However, this does not mean that we should raise our hands from it, given the very bad situation in some areas of life and the work of our citizens, that there are huge difficulties in the economic situation, in what is the financial crisis; we really need to create congruent assumptions in this field as well. The law is defined through several sections and is quite comprehensive. In the first part, the principles are, in fact, basic provisions, which highlight the important principles which are the basis for resolving gender equality issues, such as respect for international standards and contracts, equal opportunities policies, discrimination, etc. The second section is about employment and health care. I think there's been a lot of speech and controversy recently, when we passed the Law on the Treatment of Infertility through biomedical assisted insemination. Article 26 of Article 2 of that Law states that the Community of Life under Article 1 of this Article must exist at the time of the introduction of sex cells, i.e. embryos into the body of a woman. There is a solution in which it is said that, exceptionally, the right to treat infertility by BMPO also has a full-time, business-efficient woman, who herself lives and fulfils some of the other general conditions of this member, with the agreement of the health minister and the minister responsible for family relations. So, this previous law, through this article, leaves the right of ministers to, perhaps, by their subjective attitude or the idea of a problem solves the fate issues concerning the fundamental rights of a woman, which is – birthright, the right acquired by God, to say so, or to give nature a gift. The marriage community, in the right sense of marriage, or out of wedlock, cannot limit the birthright of a woman, who in some special cases may have reason to undergo this type of treatment, an out-of-body fertilisation, and that, in the end, there is no partner she knows. So, in this law, we also have a problem with women's equality and the exercise of their fundamental rights. In this law, too, in the section – family relations, it is said about birth, that every person in a generational age has the right to health care and family planning, regardless of gender. In this discussion, where I mentioned the previous context, the question arises – what is family and in what form is it understood and understood? Article 2 is said to be – partners are equal in the planning of the number of children, etc., which makes this member in the traditional way of understanding certain concepts, such as the institution of marriage or family, which does not have gender equality. We understand that MPs from the SPS, that these are very complex issues, that they are very important and that they can be analysed, observed with several aspects. There are sociological aspects, there are others, and there are questions of tradition and understanding, and of what is our reality, but we have to fight a fierce battle in that direction to achieve equal rights for both man and woman. In fact, we need to go from ourselves, indirectly, to fight the battle for the right of our mother and our daughters, our children, whether they are boys or girls, the next day, when they are in a position to fight for their rights. When it comes to what is a role in education, culture and sport, our parliamentary group feels that much more educational and educational content is needed to be included in the programmes, starting with pre-school institutions, through primary and secondary education, and beyond that means, at all levels. It's a special story when it comes to media, which are really not on the right level, not only in this matter, but also in many other issues, but it's a special story. We're witnessing various entertainment shows on TV, so-called The reality of the show, "The Moment of Truth" and others, where various banalities are being broadcast and the audience is simply being drawn to watch bloodthirsty such banalities, which are destructively acting and which do not cultivate real value systems. Did we have on TV almost, for example, some reality show that popularizes knowledge, good education, great achievements in sports or in learning our eight-year-olds, I mean children who attend primary school, or high school students, or students? We do not have such examples, such valuable children, which are worthy of respect and which should be encouraged by society and supported, remain anonymous, and become popular only those who are on that decadent level, or even below, become idols. Our parliamentary group has a very strong view on this issue and we think that in the media we should set up a different policy, which should give quite another result. When it comes to political public life, our parliamentary group too feels that it cannot be declared in the law that there is something to appeal to those entities who need specific questions to resolve, or that remains on the recommendation. And what if the recommendation is not carried out, or the appeal is not respected? What are the consequences? Judicial protection through civil and legal protection is quite well resolved, supervision of the application of this law, too. Perhaps we can join the view that criminal policy is too mild. This law is in certain parts declarative and defines certain issues not clearly enough, but I think the amendments can be corrected. When it comes to family relations, we are witnessing that there is indeed a lot of violence in the family. We believe that criminal policy for crimes committed in this area must be much stricter and completely different. We are in a situation where we see women and children who are unprotected, who are victims of violence, and that it remains only on one finding that we do not have the timely functioning of the state authorities that should prevent it, and in the end, when punishments are meant to occur, it is not at the appropriate level. It takes a long time to form a different value system in Serbia, to build a different consciousness, which would bring about the essential gender equality. It's just that it's our reality, and it's nobody's fault. But society has set high goals for itself and, in terms of further progress, it must lead in all fields a decisive struggle to set different relationships, relationships in which people would be equal, and when I say – people, I mean women, of course. However, this law is one of the very important steps in achieving the goals we have ahead of us and therefore the SPS will be pleased to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30100	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30101	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a bill that should have been passed a long time ago, because several versions of this law circled, even one of them was done on the Committee on Gender Equality of this assembly. He was in the procedure, and he didn't get to the MPs in the O.R. Simply, the first version that's officially in front of us is this one. I'm very sorry, because it seems to me that the proposals that were in circulation before this were better quality. I'll tell you why. This is our constitutional obligation and our international obligation. We need to pass this law, because we are signatories of many international documents that covered this area. That is why it is very problematic that today, as the 23rd point of this session, this law is before us. Of course, the idea of gender equality in Serbia is not new. And at that time socialism was spoken and gender equality was advocated, even gender equality. But then these famous 90s came and the actors of the 1990s were back on track. They say they'll promote their values. I am particularly afraid of that as a woman, because in the 1990s and how they reversed the social position of all citizens in this Serbia, and also of the position of women, because they have also contributed to Serbia as a society, both morally and economically and socially. Since 2000, there has been a lot of talk about human rights and freedoms, well, within that and beyond that, and gender equality and equal opportunities policy, but it seems to me that the facts are inexcusable if you look at the research done by Ju-En-Di-Pi and the other actors on our scene. If you look at the results of these studies, you can see that the position of a woman is quite unfavourable in comparison with men, but also quite unfavourable in comparison with the position that the woman had until 2000, or until the 1990s, especially. This position can be monitored especially if some very important areas are looked at, some very important aspects, such as, say, political life, the labour market. I see the law deals with these very aspects, and that's why it should be commended. If you look at the political life and participation of women in power, it is seen that today, in 2009, it is quite low, that the situation has improved compared to the year 2000, when there were about 10.8% of women in Parliament, because today this percentage is slightly above 20%, almost 21%. I cannot ignore that some important things have happened in the meantime, such as the amendment and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs in 2004, when the democratic authority decided that the change would refer to the lists for the election of the MPs being found by 30% of the less-represented sex. When it comes to the local level, the same amendments to the law have contributed to the percentage of women in a policy-related and government-run locale, from 7% to 21%. To move on to another aspect, that's the labour market. And Mr. Minister talked about it, it's an aspect that we can't ignore, because it also contributes to this unfavourable position that a woman has in society. When we talk about him until the 1990s, women were represented by 70% of the total labour force. In the 1990s, women's representation dropped to 58%. Today we do not have such clear data, but it is believed to be even lower, given some of the circumstances that occurred during that period of privatisation, transition, restructuring and the like. I pointed out that all of this helped to make a woman’s position drastically worse compared to what she was until the 1990s, the position she had until the 1990s, but also what she was compared to men. If, for example, women's economic activity is observed, women are observed to have relatively low participation in the active population. The employment rate is much lower than the male employment rate. Say, 44% are women, 64% are men. The unemployment rate is significantly higher than men, 24:16, and women find it interesting that long-term unemployment is growing, which is not the most common case with men. When it comes to the labour market, except for young people and those who have very low education, women are in the most difficult position. Because they still have to do something for their family, they often work in the field of gray economy. They enter the labour market under unequal conditions, on average, wait longer for a job than a man, before losing a job than a man, and that regardless of the degree of professional training, even if they have a higher degree of education. Very interesting information. Moreover, much more than men, when employed, suffer discrimination. I can't help but mention women between the ages of 40 and 50 who lost their jobs, previous jobs. They really don't have any chance of getting a job again, and they don't have the conditions to get a pension, they're left without income, they can't get a job experience, for centuries and centuries they remain third-class citizens. They don't exist for the state. This is terrible, especially when today, when we as authorized representatives spoke about all the vulnerable and marginalized groups, no one mentioned this category of women, nor did anyone particularly deal with it. I've never heard of an NGO engaged in this problem. That's what I'm saying because I come from Valyev. Since 2000, in that wave of privatisation, there has been a privatized company called "The Model", in which 250 women worked. They lost their jobs, these very categories of women from 40 to 50 years old. The day-to-day, after a great deal of litigation, which they have, of course, won, they are third-row citizens, because they are neither associated with their internship nor able to exercise their rights through court. It's a very big problem, which is very little to talk about. In this kind of existential uncertainty, 40% of women of this age are today. No less discriminated against are young women who, before they are employed, the employer conditioned that, in order to get a job, they should not start a family, especially should they not give birth to children. Of course, it's something that's very hard to prove. It's a crime, if I may say it's a crime at all, and it is. When you look at the polls that are done, and they're done with women of this age, you see that almost every sixth woman lists this as one of the key conditions set by the employer. Another interesting thing is this discharge that has been going on with privatisation since 2000, which in the first round has hit very much both men and women, but in this first round are privatized and textile factories and confections. These are areas where women worked, and many lost their jobs in the first round. Now that the second and third round of layoffs are coming, we see these stories, i.e. the law on administration at the republican and local level, and women work both locally and at the republican administrative level, I expect them to be in this group of those who will quickly lose their jobs. It would be interesting to follow the percentage, say, of how many women will leave these jobs and how many men. Also very interesting is something else that follows, and that is the third round that is announced, that is education, that is, the release in education, and then in health care. Also, women work most in these areas, so I expect they'll lose their jobs. I have to read a sentence that particularly irritates me as a woman in all my research. It's said, "Wifes suffer," as it is said facelessly, "incompatibility of economic and reproductive roles in changing economic conditions." That's terrible. In other words, in these circumstances where the state gives less and less resources to health care, and for education, and for help, childcare and the social sphere, women are forced, the state is forcing them to be forced to choose between jobs, careers, on the one hand, or to devote themselves to the family. As these social mechanisms weaken the protection of women, families and children, so women are put in a position to make the decision as soon as possible, otherwise the decision will be made by employers. You can see for yourself that even in state-owned companies, they're being graded. Of course, no private employer, or if he is an employer of the state, will suffer frequent absences because of small children, children’s diseases, or the like. What was a big surprise to me is something that is the area of this social sphere, and since Mr. Minister is here, I can't pretend to be crazy and not talk about it, because this is what I want to talk about this gender equality, and the law itself, about what legal standards look like, I'm going to say something later. It was very interesting to me, and I was really appalled when Mr. Minister, who normally needs to take care of both the family and the women's families, declared the foster parents to be enemies of the state who, like, parasites, like those who suck blood from the state budget, want to fool the state. I've got a few letters here from the MP's group on the e-mail from the foster parents, from women who have asked us to try to simplify things, or to reach the minister, to see if it's a mistake, about someone being misread, or simply, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and the date of this news is 20. Ten. In 2009, he is currently considering paying the maternity limit, with five average salaries so far, on three. This means that the few women who received a higher share of it would now be reduced to some sum that was twice as small as what was to be received. So that I don't paraphrasise, I'll read only pieces of what the women wrote. I think it's a contribution to this law, because we can speak from the position of opposition and authority. This isn't directed. "Please help make this decision, not to kidnap my child. This is embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing. So we ask you on behalf of our women, employees of future mothers, to launch a media campaign on our behalf as soon as possible and do not allow such a terrible idea to be implemented into action. Please, in my name and in the name of my still unborn child, help me fight for what my child belongs to." I won't read any further, I don't think there's any need, the minister understood what this is all about. Furthermore, the contribution to gender equality is that, let's say, Belgrade's pregnant women have one privilege, and the other to pregnant women in my Valjevo, Zrenjanin, Piroth, etc. That can't depend on the goodwill of local self-government and their budget. The state has to determine whether it wants to help women who want to have children, especially when the state has a white plague. Let me just say a few more words. I don't want to talk about this social sphere anymore. I'd like to say something about the position of women in education. We have to say that the situation has improved, which is extremely important to say, at the level of primary and secondary education, that relationship between women and men is practically the same. There are a few more women in higher education, but among the masters and doctors of science, for some reason, we could pollute which, since they are clear, there are more men, from 30% to 32%. There are certain inequalities when choosing jobs, when choosing occupations, but it does not enter the sphere of this area. When we talk about health care, and the law also deals with this area, I really welcome it, because these are aspects that this law should take into account. I can't help but comment on what I saw here today, which is that it seems, as a contribution to gender equality, given that women do most of their chores and purchases, so they probably go to Maxie, there now they can take care of their health, I don't know who, I guess, employees at Maxie. On the other hand, what is the problem here, is a statement I read on Sunday in one daily list, and it refers to the president of the pandemic Working Group, Mr Tiodorovic, who said he should take care and that he cannot keep quiet that women, first of all, have not been given the opportunity to vaccinate. That's very important. Then it should be said, for a number of categories of women, that marginalized social position and resource scarcity increase the risk of decline to poverty. First of all, this applies to single mothers, especially those who have small children, those who have children with disabilities, housewives, old women, sick and disabled women, women in the country, are mentioned as a special category, because they have no right even to health insurance, then, to Roma women, women in refugee status, uneducated women. The issue of violence is also the subject of this law. When we talk about it, let's not talk about data, we should say that the particular category of violence is abuse at work. Interestingly, for a very long time there has been a law on mobbing in the congregation procedure. By the will of the ruling majority, we are practically unable to pass this law. There's something else I need to say. In recent years, a large number of laws have been passed in Serbia that can improve the position of women, but what is a problem, that is, these laws are quite inconsistencies among themselves. This legal framework seems rather dissociative and ununited. The provisions are often inconsistencies and contradictory. It's a flaw and this law. No implementation mechanisms. Then we have what's a feature of the law we've been getting lately, that it's a very nice law, a declaration to the declaration, but it doesn't change anything in the position of those to whom it applies. That's a big problem, but that's the attitude this government has. She speaks very nicely, one thinks, the other speaks, the third works. We have a wonderful story, which looks like a fairy tale, but it's nowhere in real life. I can't say, at least for how long it took me, all the real problems I've caused are falling into the water before what the public has been dealing with lately, and that's so-called. The language of political correctness, which can sound a lot more scenic, because the artificial language, the artificial creation, is not subject to the laws of linguistics and such a pair of ears. I see they're laughing at first-born women. I don't belong to first-born women. I appeal not to mock our tongue. Trying to create an artificial language, introducing some powerful words of female origin, does not contribute to improving the position of women. Besides, it leads to true equality, both men and women laugh at him. When you stand behind one great idea, such as the ban on discrimination of all kinds, then you are called to speak funny. Let us not allow such a thing to be carried out behind a good and noble idea. Here's a few words about the law. The law has several provisions of constitutional character that do not belong here, I mean Articles 26 and 36. Then, the law has one large number of provisions that are not legal norms. You say, "You should try." Article 34(1) states that educational institutions are obliged to seek to provide equal conditions for active sports, etc. In paragraphs 2 and 3, you also have "they are obliged to try". It's not a legal norm. They can, and they don't have to. Obviously, it depends on their goodwill, and the law can't depend on anyone's goodwill. Also, in Article 14, you have this "need to try". You said you'd accept the amendments, but it's funny, what if you didn't try? Does he have any kind of sanctions if he doesn't try? Furthermore, you have a problem with the definition of discrimination, which is not in line with the Anti-discrimination Act, but, apparently, both definitions do not comply with Article 1. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. We're signatories to this convention. What's the biggest problem for the DSS in this law is that you got scared somewhere. Everything went well in this law until the moment you had to make institutional mechanisms for its implementation. At the Republican level, at the state level, they already exist, there's a ministry, there's a administration, but when you get to the local level, that's where you made the stalemate, they're gone. I again refer to the letters that I received from NGOs, which point out that since 2002, to this day, 50 such organisations, bodies, commissions, which deal with this topic, and I think it's funny not to be referred to it, and that you should accept the amendments that we have submitted as a parliamentary group. (President: 20 minutes. Thank you. To finish with one sentence. So our grudge, in addition, is that you gave mild references, the type of "need to try" and everything else. The law has to write, "He has to do it and do it."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30102	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30103	I have to answer that part of your presentation that referred to the law on financial support for the family, not this law, and that has no direct connection to the law we're discussing today. It is true that there have been thoughts, as the news reports say, that the maximum amount of maternity benefits is limited, instead of to five, to three months. That gave up, and the public was informed. The second thing is, it's not about us cutting maternity leave benefits, it's just changing the basis for the determination of that fee. So far, it's basically the last salary taken before going on maternity leave, and now it's going to be taken as the basis of the average salary in the last 12 months. We think that can make significant savings. There were abuses, first of all, by employers. By 37%, we have higher costs to pay, i.e. refunding the costs to employers as compensation for maternity leave, and the number of births has increased by only 10%. You'll admit that the wages didn't grow so much that that fee would be so increased. There is no dilemma, we have concrete evidence, a case will be initiated against individual employers because of these abuses. Therefore, it is not a birth attack here, but an attempt to prevent the abuse of certain employers who used the basis for determining that compensation in a way that contributes to them rather than to maternity care.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30104	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30105	Thank you, Madam Chairman, thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course I read all about what happened after that October 20th, and I get it. I read this on purpose, because a minister who took care of maternity and pregnant women was expected to react slightly differently. On the other hand, I'm glad that there's been savings, that there's so much funds in the budget that women who are supposed to have children don't get hurt. That information of yours where you say that now 10% more pregnant women are great for Serbia, 10% more women who are going to have children, but it's not great for you to say it, because they're not budget costs, they're something they get for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30106	I would ask you, when we replicate, to replicate what is unclear or superficial and to address in accordance with Article 104. Please don't throw it away. National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we all clearly need to pass a law on gender equality. It has already been said that the reasons are constitutional obligations, international obligations, European standards, but also the improvement of women's social status, including men. This law should, in fact, allow for the creation of the basis for equal opportunities policy and for establishing a fair relationship between genders, as well as for protecting against discrimination. It is certain that this law, because of these basic principles relating to gender equality, should not, as well as any other law, have any party colour, but should essentially establish relations and create legal grounds for equal opportunities and equality, i.e. to create the legal basis of an active policy of equal opportunities. The SNS is absolutely for gender equality and for the real establishment and development of equal opportunities policy and for showing all potential gender potentials. It is for establishing a level playing field between genders, especially what relations between sexes make a crucial basis for all social relations, including family. It was probably during this period, mentioned some MPs, many important laws that had to be passed, but this law, too, because of the regulation of legal norms that appear in everyday life in relations between sexes, had to be passed earlier. We heard the data, and we know that the adoption of this law took too long, since 2001, and that's nine years. There have been various findings and reasons why this law has been passed for so long. Without any responsibility for this taking so long, it is evident that the adoption of the law over the nine years, however, represents the responsibility of the ruling coalition. We are a country that is signatories, mentioned in the opening statement, the Convention on the Prohibition of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and that Convention has been signed by more than 90% of UN members. In this long-term period of reviewing and passing laws that are just now coming to the agenda, we have come to the situation that we are the only country in an environment that does not have this law. As a consequence, we have a warning from the International Committee that the adoption of this law is one of the conditions of European integration. In fact, the UN Committee in charge of monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women also made a recommendation to Serbia in 2006 on the need to adopt the law. So, one time period that's lost, but unnecessary. In essence, it is already said that I do not repeat, the law has a multidisciplinary approach, covers parts relating to work and employment, social and health care, family relations, culture, education. So, one comprehensive law, which is multidisciplinary and, as such, requires a lot of coordination with other legal acts concerning the mentioned areas, which have already been passed. In remarks relating to this law, first of all, I do not want to mention these technical and editorial remarks, because it is very often that such objections are being brought out, mostly by MPs of the opposition, and we have never encountered any appropriate approach, that in the new legal act they are trying to remove these things, so I am more concerned with the essential objections to this law. First of all, as far as the language used, which is written by law, we can say that it is inadequate and does not correspond to the basic purpose of the law. If we are on the path of European integration, to which we are all in the discussion and we are all in a hurry to this Europe, then there must be such solutions in this law. The Declaration of the Council of Europe on the Equality of Women and Men, among other things, states that democracy must become gender-aware and gender-sensitive. Maybe these words sometimes to ordinary people and they don't respond when they hear them like this, from the Assembly's pay phone, but the bottom line is that there are no elements in this law that are mentioned in the Declaration of Europe. Also, about that, this law, i.e. the language in which it is written is gender-insensitive, insensitive. This law needed to establish some basis for the introduction of that native sensual language. We, on the one hand, have since 2008, the Directorate for Gender Equality, which is the body of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and in law there is an entirely missing genealogy. So we don't have a definition of gender, which should be in that Article 10, where we have the meaning of terms, so these definitions don't exist. In this law, elimination of gender diversity is not only significant. It's a full variety, it's a notorous biological category. There is also a need for gender equality, which represents one social category. So using a native non-sensory language is one of the remarks. In many members, that is what other MPs have said, we have some extra paragraphs, or we have extra members, which are due to the discrepancies of this law with others, already passed by laws. I said that the law is multidisciplinary, covers and affects many social relations that are regulated by other laws, such as the Family Law, the Labour Act, the Anti-discrimination Law, the Criminal Law. If we use some expressions and definitions in these legal acts, they should be uniform. So the law should be consistent with the laws already passed. There is no need to correct or make new structures in new legal acts. The discrepancy of this law with some other laws is seen, for example, by the Anti-discrimination Act, which prohibits gender discrimination. Then we have the Law on the basis of the education and education system, where gender discrimination is also prohibited. Family law, which regulates and prescribes the right of a woman to decide on birth, does not comply with this law, so one of the faults of the law is inconsistencies with the laws already passed. Also, expressions, some MPs have already mentioned, in many members, some I will illustrate, are not binding at all. These are sentences such as: "They should try," "he is in debt", more like a recommendation. For the public's sake, I'd like to illustrate a few members, the MPs read, so they know. For example, Article 19: "The employer should try", so Article 14, refers to equal availability of jobs and positions, again "he should try". Then we have Article 21: "The unions and employers' associations should try." The remark, which is not only mine but also other MPs, is that such members are more declarative, so the question arises – are these members, parts of the law, some non-binding recommendations or declarations? This law cannot, there must be clear, concrete and binding members, so these declarative members in this law should be corrected. On the other hand, the executive power cannot be excluded from all regulations. That's an objection. If clear and active law enforcement is to be sought, the obligations of state authorities and public authorities, which should be clearly defined, must also be provided for by some members, since they are not so clearly defined. Practically, these proposals avoid the obligation of state authorities to implement this policy of equal opportunities. In the definition of obligations, the National Assembly, as well as the Government, should have obligations to implement gender equality, which is not regulated in the existing law. The law lacks control and enforcement instruments. There are no institutional mechanisms in law enforcement, especially at the level of local self-government, where only the recommendations of a declarative nature are listed in article 39, and there are no specific obligations of local self-government, in the sense that co-ordinators need to be introduced. For example, the authorities of the local self-government unit, within their jurisdiction, provide gender equality. What mechanisms? It is certain that some coordinators should be foreseen, that local self-government, by selecting gender equality coordinators, defines their competences and powers, or it can also be a body. This is where I heard a complaint about the number of employees, as scheduled. There were 500 in the law, now I heard, in the opening statement, from the minister that it was reduced to 50 and that it was corrected, which I am glad. Because in other legal acts of our country, these small and medium-sized enterprises are also meant to develop. In today's conditions, for 500 employees to be in charge of a man who will follow the law on gender equality is indeed inadequate. It's our objection to criminal provisions, and I see that's what others have said. Indeed, they are not in line with any other laws, such as the Law of Labour and Criminal Law, but they are, not to be read, inappropriately small and certain that criminal provisions should be significantly higher. The criminal provision itself cannot at times bring some law to order, to use that term, but it, as a measure of sanctions, and, on the other hand, as a measure of preventive action, can affect the reduction of relevant negative phenomena, so that criminal provisions should be much more drastic, that the part in which they can participate affects the implementation of this law. In Article 52, as regards supervision, the Assembly, through its committee, should also be involved in monitoring the implementation of this law. The Committee of the National Assembly should have proper insight, as we have organisations involved in monitoring gender equality laws can participate in its control. It is quite logical, then, that the Committee of the National Assembly, whether it be the Committee on Gender Equality or others, will be involved. We also have a concrete percentage question. We're all talking about the gender equality law here. The right equality is a parity percentage. The question is, when will it take, how long will it take to change relevant social relations, to change traditions, to achieve the proper awareness of the public, education, to accept these parity percentages? However, it may be necessary to try to take a step forward in these certain percentages, to create some regulatory and legal framework that would give equal parity percentages in gender representation. Basically, such a law should remove the consequences of centuries-old, we can say, traditional discrimination and marginalization of women. It should also speed up the process of eliminating various birth stereotypes and, firstly, improve the position of women in all spheres of life. We've also heard the findings that we should have the law. It's always better to have the law than not to have it. I agree with that, but the responsibility for the adoption of every law, especially a law that is not good, is always on the ruling majority, especially if, in some period of implementation, some bad consequences of its implementation are shown. Therefore, we need to make an attempt, and you as the ruling majority, these many amendments that have been submitted, there are many amendments to the opposition, but also many amendments submitted by the MPs, and I am pleased, because all these amendments refer to the same places and the same objections, that by adopting them, not only our MP groups, but everyone who affects the proper and appropriate regulation of the law, we are going to adopt one solid law, which will lay the right basis for establishing these equal relations, respecting and harmonised relations between sexes, because I repeat, many relations are based on them, from family to all segments of social life. Depending on how these amendments will be adopted, how much it will affect the improvement of the quality of this law, we will be determined in support of this law, which we really need.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30108	The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar-Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30109	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I must at first express my satisfaction that the bill was finally on the agenda. I am aware that the efforts of many parties have been made and I would not overly politicise this issue. At the very beginning, I would also like to point out that the G17 Group of MPs plus will support the bill on gender equality, as the party itself, with concrete action and examples, has pointed to respect for the principles of equal opportunities for men and women. This is also suggested by the number of MPs in the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, the number of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia for which the G17 Plus party took responsibility, three out of six ministerial posts, the number of regional secretaries within the province's secretariats, etc. As already mentioned on several occasions, the legal basis for the adoption of this law is found in the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees equality between women and men and the development of equal opportunities policy, as well as in Article 21(4), which is allowed to introduce specific measures to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are not, essentially, in the same position as other citizens. The Republic of Serbia, as known, is a member of the UN, the Council of Europe and other international organisations, and is also a signator of a number of international documents relating to women's rights and gender equality. He has an obligation to constantly work towards equalising the position and rights of women and men. Some of these documents I'm going to mention and quote, not all of them. In 1981, the SFRY adopted the Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, in which the term 'discrimination of women' means any difference, exclusion or restriction in respect of gender, which has the effect or aim of jeopardising or disabling the recognition, achievement or exercise by women of human rights and fundamental freedoms in political, economic, social, cultural, civil or other fields, regardless of their marital status, based on equality between men and women. Equal opportunities policy for both sexes is the basis for the democratisation of society. The relationship between men and women in one society is about accepting and respecting diversity. A partnership based on equality between men and women is one of the conditions for sustainable development. There was no law in our legal system so far that would particularly regulate the field of gender equality. This law belongs to a group of anti-discrimination laws and I believe that the adoption of this law is a logical trail of steps after the adoption of the "blood" law – a ban on discrimination. When we look at the situation in the region on gender equality issues, I would remind you that a Law on Gender Equality in BiH was adopted in 2003. It contains similar provisions as in this law. International standards are contained, direct and indirect forms of discrimination, gender-based violence, endangerment and sexual harassment and the determination of sanctions against bullies are defined. In 2006, the parliament of the Republic of Macedonia passed a law on equal opportunities for men and women and the adoption of this law aimed at promoting the establishment of equal opportunities for women and men in all areas of social life, through institutions, authorities, units of local self-government. Croatia passed the first law in 2003, and in 2008 it passed a second law on gender equality. The birth equality law of Montenegro passed in 2007, so it is quite clear that it is high time for the Republic of Serbia to get a law on gender equality. I would remind you that the Committee for the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women is at the 38th session, i.e. In 2007, he noted the positive steps made by the RS to remove the discriminatory aspects of legislation. At the time it was the Family Relations Act, the Labour Act, the Criminal Code, the Electoral Code. The Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination would now be found on the list. When it comes to the mechanisms set up in Serbia in order to achieve gender equality, I would go from a republican level, which concerns the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality. The assembly has, essentially, this control function and I think it implies that it can monitor the implementation and implementation of this law. Then, the Council for Gender Equality of the Government of RS, where the participation of the Civil Society Organisation is praised. Within the framework of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as we all know well, the Directorate for Gender Equality has been educated. Deputy Protector of the Citizens for Gender Equality and Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been appointed. At the province level, the Secretariat for Labour, Employment and Gender Equality was formed, the Committee for Gender Equality of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Council for Gender Equality of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, the Institute for Gender Equality, the deputy of the province's ombudsman for Gender Equality. At the local level, the issue of equality and gender equality deals with centres, committees, faces or commissions. I deliberately mentioned these mechanisms, because maybe they should have been implemented in this law. It certainly won't end something that already exists. It should be noted that this year the government adopted a National Strategy to improve women's positions and improve gender equality. The above-mentioned strategy sets out the objectives much more concrete and harmonised the state policy to eliminate discrimination against women, improve their position and integrate the principles of gender equality in all areas of the functioning of the institutions of the system, as one of the elements of the modernisation and democratisation of society, in order to improve their position and integrate the principles of gender equality in line with the policy of equal opportunities set out in the Constitution of the RS. The planned activities are determined on the basis of the naturally reflected needs and relate to the period from 2009 to 2015. As a accompanying document, the National Action Plan for improving women's position and improving gender equality were also carried out. I would mention other documents that have been adopted, which is the decision on gender equality of the AP Vojvodina, declarations, etc. From an international point of view, the Council of Europe, one of the most important documents on gender equality, in the 2003 Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers on equal representation of women and men in political and public decision-making, prescribed that equal representation of any woman, any male, in any decision-making body should not be less than 40%. I am particularly pleased that this part has been implemented in the Strategy. I would like to point out that the UN Development Fund for Women, UNIFEM, which is committed to improving women's rights and achieving gender equality, the World Economic Fund, which traditionally draws up a report on the situation of men and women in the field of economy, politics, education and health systems. Then there is the Economic Commission, which adopted the Act in 2006 – Paths to equality between women and men for the period 2006-2010, which describe priority areas of action, which are economic independence for women and men, coordination of business and private life, equal representation at decision-making sites, elimination of all forms of gender violence, elimination of gender stereotypes, promotion of gender equality in foreign and development policies. When we talk about the proposal for this law, it is certainly necessary to mention that numerous civil society organisations in RS are focusing their actions on achieving equality between men and women, and significant activity is a campaign to combat domestic violence, especially violence against women. Representatives of civil society organisations participated in this proposal, or earlier proposals. The bill on gender equality regulates employment, social and health care, family relations, education, culture and sport, political and public life and judicial protection. I would like to point out that this law represents the "top" law, which provides frameworks for action in order to achieve gender equality. Unfortunately, certain social and traditional factors still place women in a subordinate position. Personally, I don't think this is a woman's law, but statistics and everything that surrounds us indicate that special and affirmative measures need to be introduced to improve the position of women in society. Women, by the way, possess less property, women are victims of domestic violence and this is another necessary legal framework to improve gender equality. I wouldn't talk too much about the advantages of the law. Of course, there is the possibility of introducing gender equality into the education system, but I would certainly point out and wonder why the gender was left out and why the law was done at the level of the recommendation, although it seems to me that a lot of parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, in particular to Articles 14, 21, 19 and 34, so it would be good, the minister informed us that Article 39 has changed, which will create some kind of obligation of the body of the local self-government and specifically define mechanisms for the work of those commissions or councils. I would also take this opportunity to stress that the municipality from which I come, on the proposal of the board and the board, has adopted a decision on gender equality concerning local mechanisms and on the advice of local communities. If one small municipality, an underdeveloped municipality, although there are no small and large municipalities, there are good municipalities, there are opportunities to implement such a policy, I think it's quite good for this state to look up to one municipality, the municipality of Cereal, and try to implement such things in the state. I would have to say, as my colleagues have said, that criminal policy is quite indeterminate and that criminal measures could be strengthened, purely as a prevention. I would like to point out once again that we need to solve and hope that after the adoption of this law, a series of sublegal acts will follow, which will solve the financing of safe houses, legal assistance of victims of domestic violence, which you are probably familiar with as a problem. Once again, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support this law in the voting day, as a law that should create frameworks for the operation and formation of equal opportunities in all social segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30110	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ljajic, I will try to state on behalf of the SRS the party's position on this law. What I'm saying at first is that our attitude towards this law is, in principle, not an attitude towards the idea of affirmation of the concept of gender equality. I will only talk about how we are experiencing what you are trying to present by law and by responding to the devastating statistics in certain areas, about statistics I will say a little later, which, as it is devastating, can also be ungrateful, in terms of gender equality. I repeat, if time allows, we'll talk about it later. You see, Mr. Minister, the SRS feels that Serbia really is not the time to deal with this law. The fact that the government sent this law to Parliament speaks only of the fact that the government does not have a clear perception of social and economic opportunities in the country and because of this fact, the application of this law will in one serious way be questioned. We would like to take advantage of your presence tonight and talk about some of the problems of social and economic character that are vital to Serbia and whose resolution, in a way, would indirectly lead to the improvement of this area that you want to talk about through this law. If I were to make it concrete, we'd like to, say, talk about the problems of the workers in Zorka from Capca. You're the man who's been very directed into this whole story. We'd like to talk about the problems that have caused the school to be interrupted today at the Faculty of Agriculture, due to a debt of 14 million dinars for heating. We believe that the state, its unwillingness to respond to these problems, in fact, has demonstrated how equal it is in discrimination and one and the other in their rights and efforts to live, to work, to achieve social protection and, of course, to educate. Again, Serbia is not ready to apply the provisions of this law. What I will also try to deny in this exhibit is the fact, and I cannot attribute it to most of the whole, not to the government, but to some individuals within the majority who have tried, from the time that this project of public advocacy and adoption of this law, who have tried, I will express myself to your dictionaries, not to your own, but to your majority, to challenge the birth sensitivity of the SRS, just because we have not participated in some public debates in which such legal projects have been promoted and presented. If you are, and I believe you are, and if you're not, you might want to take a look at the amendments to the SRS. I think you'll see that you have a serious talker in the SRS when it comes to this area, but that doesn't change our relationship with the general circumstances, which we consider to be absolutely, but absolutely incompatible with the norms that this law provides. One of the MPs present, position or opposition, mentioned some previous legal solutions and drafts. They're really right. A draft that was discussed in Serbia two or three years ago, that we are now not entering into whose proposal was, who proposed it, was more resolute, better and quality than this now. I think there's a lot you could have taken from this law that was previously under discussion, you'd have left a picture to seriously think about, you who are sitting in government today, and you really want to improve the area of gender equality. So, by bringing this law down to what it is, it seems to me that you have not only put this law into a set of anti-discrimination laws, but also in the laws of modern construction, which today regularly come into this assembly, which are being adopted and which end, in principle, in drawers, do not have adequate application, and everything else is trying to solve itself by sublaw. That's not good, and those laws can't get their essence in practice. On the basis of all this, Mr. Ljajic, the impression is that you only passed this law because of another document. It is the report on the implementation of the National Integration Programme of the Republic of Serbia. This is a document that represents a set of tables of how many states, or government, have passed the law, sent to the assembly procedure, and the Serbian Parliament adopted the same laws at plenary sessions. Of course, this is a story that is part of your path to the EU, but the way into the EU, you who are promoting that path in Serbia must finally understand, does not just mean the adoption of the law, but the establishment of standards that you define through these laws. Until you realize that and until in practice in Serbia, you will not be able to convince anyone seriously that you really want to lead Serbia into the EU, or that you have the capacity to do such a thing. Now I'd like to deal with the application of this law. It's true that this is the law of a set of anti-discrimination laws, but what separates it from all other laws is that its inapplicability is the greatest. It will not be an experience with this unfortunate Serbia because of socio-economic opportunities, it is the experience of all the countries that have adopted such legislation, the most developed and the most underdeveloped, but who have these laws. This law represents a need, i.e. it solves an area that requires systemic action, multi-sectorally. By doing so, I ask you, since you have incorporated in a series of laws, decisions or regulations the views and recommendations of various international organisations, here, and the International Labour Organisation, tell us the effects you have achieved on the basis of these standards in Serbia. That would be a good thing if you told us. Tell us this - is the judiciary ready to apply such a law? It's not. Our judiciary is not ready, because in applying these standards, the judiciary is not prepared in a much more orderly, legal sense, more organised states. Are the judges ready? Of course not. How much will it cost to train these judges, and how long will it take to digest this matter? Does Serbia, who knows how many times we have opened this as a topic in the Assembly, have the administrative capacity to apply this law? I'm going to ask you very specifically. You are, personally, as a supervisory resolution minister, a witness to the fact that you have hundreds of thousands of people who have executive judicial solutions to the achievement of residual earnings, social and health insurance, various contributions, and these rights today cannot be realised, rights that are indisputable. Tell us is that contrary to the law and is that proof that this law will not be applicable in practice? Finally, I ask you, does Serbia have the money to apply this law? Are we financially capacitative to apply the provisions of this law? Here's why I'm asking you this. We also need to clarify that in a concrete, rather than abstract way, we need to talk about what kind of EU accession is, where you are taking us, when it comes to these laws. In 2006, the European Institute for Gender Equality defined 52m euros in the budget until 2013 for the affirmation of the idea. Look out, that's 52 million euros. Thirty million euros were damaged only on the Uste project. It is not about the "Moses" project in this context, but about the amount of funds that both the EU and the countries that make it are paying attention to this topic, not the way you in Serbia want to show it. The impression is that today in Serbia we want to become more Catholic than the Pope. Of course, when it comes to this law, Europe’s countries have gone the farthest in the world. From the European countries, Scandinavians have gone the farthest. I think you can see why this is so – they are both the richest and the social maps of these countries are the best and the best, but in these countries it can't be said that all the provisions of the laws that regulate this kind of discrimination are applied to the end. I just told you I'd say a few words about statistics. Statistics, as useful as it is, I'm not ashamed to say it's not true, it can often be, when it comes to this area, and ungrateful. As most of the MPs, with whom I agree, cited statistics that really depict the poor position of women in a particular area, statistics can also be found to illustrate, on the other hand, the poor position of men. This is usually recognized in some social areas, sectors, which may be natural for things to be like that. Here it may be necessary to discuss, and that is essentially the law's intensities, about the affirmation of women's active participation in public life in Serbia. Today it is asked as a question – have we, as a state, in recent years, promoted discrimination and have women in Serbia been discriminated against so far? This is a question for you and your government – have we really discriminated against women and have women so far in Serbia had the right to be politically active? You have made this a legal obligation, applied European practice that we need 30% of women to run for the lists. Let's be honest, let's talk openly about the fact -- how many political parties in their ranks are women who are really willing to give themselves up and commit themselves to this job? You know for yourself how the 30% rate is achieved and how many of these women, who are on the lists of all parties, really feel ready to engage and engage in politics. This is not a fundamental improvement in gender equality, i.e. active participation of women in politics. It's formal and that's what the SRS wants to challenge when it comes to this law. How's Europe? Now watch this. Here, this EU of yours, as early as 2003, brought to the Council of Europe a recommendation that they consider to be the most important, which is that it must be equal representation of any woman, any male in any decision-making body; it must not be less than 40%. Now watch the statistics. We have made little effort to challenge this EU right to talk about the affirmation of this idea. Do you, Mr. Minister, know which country is first in the world in the participation of women in the state parliament? Rwanda. Imagine how much statistics she can be ungrateful – Rwanda. Watch the percentage, there's more than 56%. Sweden is second and third is South Africa. Out of this entire list of statistics, only 24 countries around the world have managed to exceed 30%. Of those 24, only nine are European countries. Now someone who belongs to the institution where you're taking us should be giving lessons and sermons to Serbia, which is on not so bad 48. A place?- I'm sorry. When we talk about Serbia's position, there are Italy, Britain, France, USA, Greece, Cyprus, Switzerland, Ireland, Slovenia, etc. It is very ungrateful to say that there will be another picture of gender equality after the adoption of this law. We do not seem to have had discrimination in this context so far in Serbia, which does not mean that some things in the country should not be changed in this regard. They, above all, mean a change in the overall and social and economic situation, and only then comes the story that comes down to the provisions of this law. I will certainly comment, in this little time that I have, some concrete members of this law. Where is your principle of obligation in this law, Mr. Minister, because that's what all MPs have been talking about, both the authorities and the opposition? Whom will you convince in the honesty of the definition that you want to improve equality with the "needs to try to" findings? Who are you going to convince that you tried without achieving what this law is, in principle, supposed to affirm? What you have, as a representative of the government, led to for the first time through a legal form of affirmative in Serbia, is also weak for us, you will recognise in our amendments. That's what we've been trying to do with the amendments. That's a member of your 18th. - about sexual harassment. Do you really think that Article 18, as you have predicted it, is a good, position 2, which is a fundamental problem and we have acted on by amendment: 'O circumstances which indicate that it is exposed to harassment, sexual harassment or sexual blackmail employed by written notices to the employer and seeks effective protection'? And what if the employer abuses? And what about being abused until the employer and the state authorities react? You see how many surfaces, how many nonessential approaches to the problem! Also, a member of health care, completely unclear, is not decadent. You moved the frogs out here. But we have submitted the amendment and you can change it and advance it. What does "stereotypes" mean in Article 31? What are "prejudices"? Are these categories that you can include in one law and that there is no subjective approach to solving problems based on these categories? You can't, of course. What's really scandalous is what I'm going to end up with, Mr. Minister, being a member of 33. Be careful what you said in one sentence, it's a little bit longer, you'll let me just finish: "In order to ensure conditions for promotion and fuller inclusion in the process of education and professional training, public authorities in charge of education are obliged to take special steps to engage in these student processes or groups of students", now watch this, "who, because of their culture, traditions and social economic conditions, leave school early. '"I'd like you to tell us what nations, communities, which, in their culture and tradition, promote early school leaving. I'll give you one devastating but true piece of information. In Spain, one of the leading eight or nine EU countries, every third child does not graduate from school. Is that the culture and tradition of the Spanish people? Of course not. Mr. Minister, since my time in this part of the debate is at an end, you have made a superficial approach in resolving this area in Serbia. Because of this approach, this law will remain only in drawers, inapplicable. Because of that fact, we believe that this law should not have been on the agenda of this and some of the next assembly sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30112	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Bojana Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30113	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry and fellow MPs, I am pleased to conclude that the law on gender equality finally came to the session of the assembly session. Serbia remained the last country in the region not to adopt the law, but, at the same time, Serbia is one of the countries with enviable results on improving women's positions, which has been made since 2000. The Serbian constitution is also one of the better in the world to open up opportunities to address gender equality issues. Several times already it has been said that Serbia is a signator of many international agreements that oblige it to adopt this law, but it is the most important Convention on the Elimination of All Types of Discrimination of Women, adopted by the UN and the UN Committee, which is organized to control the implementation of this programme in signatories countries, as it sent Serbia a recommendation in 2006 which encourages the immediate adoption of gender equality laws. Many times it has been said, but I must mention that the harmonisation of Serbia's legislation with EU law is a condition for our accession to the Union, and one of the essential conditions is the adoption of the law on gender equality. Serbia has formed national mechanisms for gender equality. These are state institutions at different levels and with specific powers and are formed to establish, promote and protect the principles of gender equality. These are parliamentary committees, councils, ministry services, women's rights protectors. Many municipalities have organised local councils, but I hope that, following the adoption of the amendments by the ministry, the municipalities will be obliged to form these councils. By adopting the right law, this story will be given to the legal framework. When we talk about gender equality, or gender equality, it is very important to separate two concepts – gender and half. The sex makes up the biological, predetermined differences between a man and a woman. Rod, on the other hand, characterizes differences in the social roles of women and men who are acquired by the adoption of certain cultural forms of society in which they live. These characteristics are subject to change. Therefore, birth equality should ensure equal representation of both women and men in all areas of both private and public life. The economic situation of women and their participation in the labour market are of great importance for the development of gender equality. The minister had already talked about it, and some colleagues who spoke before me presented the results of many of the research done on the subject. I'm going to add some information that I think is very interesting. Studies show that women's position on the labour market in Serbia is marked by a higher rate of inactivity and higher unemployment rates than men, a longer period of waiting for work and poor participation of women in entrepreneurship. The largest number of inactive women, besides pupils and students, are pensioners and housewives, and according to the age structure, they are women over 55. When it comes to unemployment, women make up most, especially younger women, up to 30 years old. Women are on average waiting for a job for about 53 months, which is a terrible data and what it says about one long-term unemployment. It is particularly worrying that most job seekers have been seeking their first job for more than two years. There's a percentage of about 58% of all unemployed women. That's the information that worries. The highest increase in women's unemployment rates occurred between 2003 and 2004, when this rate rose from 19% to almost 23%. That, of course, was influenced by the transition and restructuring of the economy. Despite the development of the private sector, which has been observed today in Serbia, women rarely opt for entrepreneurship and the launch of their own business, so that they are twice as many women employers as they are with men. Studies also show that women between 25 and 49 years of age have a drastic decline in the number of children. When it comes to men, in the same case, the rate is standard. So it doesn't change. Although the educational level of unemployed women is higher than in men, their position is not in line with the educational structure they possess and are more represented in the economic branches with less paid occupations. The particularly endangered and vulnerable category of the population consists of Roma, refugees and internally displaced and exiled, as well as persons with disabilities. Research has shown that the position of women in these groups is much more unfavourable than men and the general population. Roma women, refugees, women with disabilities and women from the village represent the category most difficult to come to work and is largely exposed to poverty and social isolation. All this data speaks very clearly of the necessity to put the principle of gender equality in the legal frameworks, to bring it back to life in Serbia, in order to specifically address these problems. Of course, nothing can be solved overnight, but a process must be opened, which for the ultimate objectives will have equal division of power and influence between women and men, economic equality of women and men, equal distribution of unpaid work related to the care of other persons and home affairs, and, above all, stopping violence of men against women. Women and men, as well as girls and boys, have equal rights and opportunities regarding their own physical integrity. Due to all that I have stated, the ZES Parliamentary Group will make a positive statement on this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30114	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? If not, I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, New Serbia, G17 plus, DSS, ZES, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. The first was reported, and by order of the MPs in the application for a word in the principled search of the Law on Gender Equality, MPs Judita Popovic, followed it, MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30115	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in voting day, the LDP will vote in favour of this law, first of all, for the reason this law is pro-European, and we have talked about supporting the government in its bid to move on the European path, European integration. This law has our support. In this form in which he arrived for the debate in the congregation, he has certain qualities, and there are certain shortcomings. It's a good thing this law belongs to that set of anti-discrimination laws, and it's finally come to the agenda, because so far we haven't had this matter regulated by law. Today, we are discussing, in fact, half the population of Serbia. We're talking about women, gender equality. Unfortunately, this law does not have a name – the law on gender equality, but only – on gender equality. Birth equality is a slightly wider concept and this gender equality would include that third category, which is a different identity of the person, apart from the male and female, of the individual of the different gender identity. However, in the form in which it is given, and with this name, this law, however, represents a revolutionary step in solving the problem of equal chances, equal opportunities for all. When we talk about that half of the population, we think about those who, as far as employment is concerned, are expressed as a percentage of 45%. We're talking about that half of the population that, when it comes to managers, represents only half of the number of managers representing men. This is the half that has finally reached that level since 2007 to represent the majority of those who have graduated from colleges. This is the half that affects all crises most, and we are aware today that women are hit hard, firstly, by the war years of the 90s, and, on the other hand, by the severe economic crisis inherited from the same 90s and upgraded by this new global economic crisis. Because of all these crises, whose actors, victims and participants, women are the first to be hit when they are to be fired from work, when they are to close down factories where they work, and women usually work in some unattractive places, i.e. enterprises, on, as far as income is concerned, much less paid jobs. Women are the first to strike when it comes to thinking about whether to receive a younger woman who has not yet been married, who has not yet been born, or a younger man. The blow is in a negative sense, because if a relationship is made that will sooner be admitted to that job, the risk is assessed immediately, costs are estimated in case that woman is married, that woman is born of a child, and is absent from work, etc. Women are the ones who are most often threatened in families, because, unfortunately, when there is great poverty, when the economic crisis, the family is also suffering, and the easiest thing at the time is that the weight of life in that family is brought down on a woman, precisely because of this inherited traditional behavior, because of some biological predisposition of women, who are physically weaker than their husbands and the like. In family, women, otherwise, as far as statistics are concerned, spend six times as much time in domestic affairs, in urban areas, and in rural areas, 12 times as much as in male partners. When all this is compared, then the importance of this law is understood and why it is part of the system of values, part of the standard that the EU, as a condition, has put in Serbia's task of fulfilling it if it really wants to integrate. When we read the law, I think this first member is the best in the whole law, which is that the law regulates and regulates the creation of equal opportunities and the exercise of rights and obligations, taking specific measures to prevent and eliminate discrimination based on gender and legal protection of persons exposed to discrimination. This Article 1 is what is most positive in this law, and all of this is being upgraded to this fundamental member of the law. However, we have the feeling that the law may be too retained in some declarative arrangement of relations and the determination of certain rights and protection against discrimination. Why is a declarative relationship and why is it expected that the law will not have a real, serious realization in practice? First of all, for the reason that the law is limited to some institutions, it is limited to, say, a declarative way of determining where the problems are and how to solve these problems. We don't see a solution to how this law will get to the ones it needs to reach. How will this law accept those to whom it applies, how will this half of the population that this law refers to responds to the law and really require that its rights be protected within the meaning of this law, unless we have direct contacts, be brought directly to these legal provisions on the ground, to those to which it applies? What's this about? It's about Serbia, for example, having 23.8% of people with primary school and 41% with high school. So if 41% of the population is in high school, that we're not talking about that part of the population that only has a primary school, the question is how interested is that part of the population, especially if it's women, to get this law, to read and to apply its rights, or to seek the protection of rights, when these rights are in some way compromised? Regardless of what we have here, we have the obligations of the authorities of the local self-government units, marked in Article 39, and the obligations are mainly concentrated on development plans. For nothing, we have statistical records, which also remain only in the sphere of the declaration. We also have this public information, but it's just a finding of a problem. We also have associations that are also dealing with finding the problem, but how will those who find the problem manage to solve it for their own benefit, and this law gives them the opportunity to solve it for their own benefit? I think it would be good to consider imposing, possibly, the obligation of local self-government on women's rights at a bar to protect those rights, specifically and clearly, without some declarative finding of problems, diagnosis. We're gonna have a lot of that. It is also necessary to implement something in practice. I would like to reiterate that the LDP will vote in favour of this law. Normally, we're not entirely satisfied. We think we should do more. We expect some of the next steps from the government and those dealing with this problem, that they will see problems and that this law will build and improve in walking. So we'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30116	The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, followed by a folk letter from Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, listening to fellow Members so far, you could see that the majority who supports the adoption of this law still has, very mildly announced, regrets, which we of the opposition, however, have said a little more stringently. So, this law has huge gaps. I think it should be a basic parameter for you to manage when you adopt the amendments and try to fix this law as-so, because it will, even, be fixed, in many ways inapplicable, because, above all, it looks like a declaration, a convention, a list of wishes, intent, a letter of intent; only that it is divided by members and heads different from a mere convention or declaration. We felt that this law was somehow extorted, just because it is constantly mentioned that it is one of the conditions for entering the EU, that is to say, to be a step closer to the EU, and we all know that such a law has not lived happily in any country, that there has been an economic standard for women, and that these countries where women are treated differently and have a different position, in fact, countries that have a high economic standard. That is the essence of true happiness and well-being of a society. This law does not regulate basic issues and basic problems. He doesn't offer safety. I also mentioned to you in the part where I addressed myself as an MP who singled out his opinion that we now have laws that are very strict, very clear, very concrete and immediately applicable, which will immediately collapse into the women's population, because they will be adopted and have to be implemented, too, by order of the EU, and this law will not be able to protect them from the application of these laws, so that we will have the laws of the first and second order. In free interpretation, I see this law as the law of the second order, where the judge, if he is able to define himself under this law, must be defined for another law, where some matter is very seriously regulated, already regulated, but in practice checked, where he will be able to more seriously refer to some members without questioning his reputation. What we can say about this law and, in general, about the position of women, is that women have been treated as reproductives for a long time, they have played a reproductive role, a task of raising and preserving their family and giving birth. Over time, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world, this role has spread once more; in addition to reproductively, women have also had a productive role, so they have to make, earn and bring some concrete material goods. It is, of course, the consequence of some other revolutions, from earlier centuries. Then women began to fight for public social affirmation, to come to the decision-making post, rightly, to come to the power of governance, less or more successfully, so that women inherited three roles. Men have never played so many roles. Women have never been relieved, the number of roles has just increased. Now I will remind you of a lovely aphorism of Duško Radovic, who, without a doubt, loved women and children. He said, watching women in Serbia – one woman can't be both mother and wife, and housekeeper, and mistress, and working woman; it has to be done by more women. Thank him for that honesty and the truth that we face every day. Given how many of us are sitting in Parliament, as many of us are sitting in our parties, we have to admit that Serbia has no problem with this extent of emancipation, there is one in the problem of standards and economic issues. We know that there's something that's universal and lasting difference and we can't change it by any law, it's going to stay that way, that's the full difference, that we're trying to erase some legal solutions. The real difference, however, arises in a socio-social way. What this law does not treat and what it will not be possible to apply is what is professionally called – the perceived differences in division of work. You know, you can prescribe a 30% mandatory law here or there, but you'll never get 30% of women miners in the mine. You will never get at the obstetric clinic 30% of the male midwife's employees, so there are some things that must be respected, regardless of the laws, because these are the assumed differences, which traditionally, culturally, even logically and healthyly, must exist in society. What this law should offer, in part it fulfils, is this gender perspective, declarative – it really exists, through the information contained in the analysis and design of interventions – and it partially fills, institutionalization, involvement, designing interventions. That's exactly what we talked about most, about applicability, inapplicability of interventions, about what the law will look like tomorrow, when voted out, in life, in implementation. That's the application of intervention to specific problems, if they come forward. Then we are left with an evaluation, i.e. the assessment of the life of the law itself, the effects, and the possible correction of the law itself, if its application, or those criminal provisions, for which every law exists. What this law could not have done, it should not have been allowed to come to this assembly, in front of the MPs, without being arranged, that is the language of the law. The law must be binding, enforceable, accurate and precise. In law, I've already talked about it, I can't stand the flat-rate qualifications for someone to "can," to "recommend to," and so on. That's why I said he had a form of declaration and a convention of good intentions and good wishes. It can't be a single day in practice, because even the unpunished provisions relating to some 5,000 figures, or any number of thousands of dinars, mean nothing. What if someone doesn't, someone doesn't, and someone does it just to show something else? There will be much bigger and more complicated issues in society. What has already been solved by some other legal solutions, perhaps some other laws should have been perfected, little improved, for women to feel safe, protected, and in this society sufficiently affirmed in the way they deserve it. What is true, Andric said nicely, let's be a little poetically inspired, it's that 'woman stands at the entrance of this world, like a gate'. Not so much to turn to literature, but to the naked life, which is around us today, that's what one woman from the people said much better – Whoever patented the washing machine did more for women than all the feminist movements, all the politicians and all the laws of this world. That's true. From that point of view, look at the woman and it should be further rewarding for the woman’s success. The spread of all possible burdens that come in such an insecure state, which comes as a consequence of the transition, which is a revolution, which is most difficult to bear by women who have been exposed, as the most numerous victims, in this process, which I have just heard from my colleague, those who are the most numerous – unemployed, who have lost, above all, health security, and the number of serious illnesses has increased precisely in the female population in an enormous number. No one's talking about that number, the consequences of malignancies that accelerate the prolonged stress they're exposed to, that we don't talk about everything else. Therefore, a woman really needs security, a safe state, and she will provide her maximum. So far, women have proven to be excellent politicians, have proved to be extremely responsible workers in each job, regardless of the triple role they have been given. If we really want to do something for women, then we relieve them of some basic concerns and make society better, every day and every legal project, make society concrete in that help to women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30118	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Pejica, and after it, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30119	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a very important legislative proposal, which I think this assembly should have discussed a long time ago. As early as 2003, 2006, this legislative proposal was in the assembly procedure, but unfortunately there was no political will at the time, or agreement, so the law was withdrawn. Several times already been said here, but for the sake of the public, I will repeat the fact that Serbia is the only country in the region that has not yet passed this law. For the sake of the public, I will also point out when it was adopted in neighbouring Yugoslav republics. In BiH and Croatia, it was adopted in 2003, Macedonia, 2006, in Montenegro, 2008. There are a number of reasons why I find this law of exceptional importance. One of the first is our international and constitutional commitment by which the state of Serbia guarantees gender equality and develops a policy of equal opportunities. The reason is also to comply with EU legislation and legislation, which removes the stereotype and prejudice on the superiority and inferiority of sex. It depends on how much we work to implement the implementation of this law depends on how much progress we will make in the future as a country in cultural, economic, political, particularly in social terms. Many studies have shown that women’s representation in all segments of public, political and business life is far less than men’s population. The percentage of male employment is 63% and the female is 44%. Although this law falls within the scope of anti-discrimination laws, it is my opinion that it exceeds those frameworks, because by achieving gender equality, not only do women, but also their families and society as a whole. In doing so, I mean the most important part of this law that refers to equality in employment, promotion, improvement, equal amount of profit and so on. All this can only have a positive impact on the standard of every family. Although I have not met this kind of discrimination in my personal and professional life, I am fully aware of its existence. We all know how many times we've heard that our fellow citizens, in an attempt to reach employment, are being questioned by potential employers about marital status, family planning and so forth. There are numerous examples and situations where they were moved to another job because of pregnancy, which, as a rule, was less paid, or even ended the contract by the employer. There are also known cases that women for the same jobs, in the same jobs, are less paid than male colleagues. Such negative phenomena affect not only the status of women in society, but directly endangers the existence of entire families. This law provides for criminal provisions for such and similar proceedings. And not only that, but the law stipulates that every employer who employs, as it says in the law, 500 workers, and I think in his address, the minister said that it has changed to 50 workers, has an obligation to create a programme under which, over a period of at least four years, gender inequality will be mitigated. However, I believe that criminal policy is very mild and very little binding to the employer. In addition to all of this, an important segment of this law, which is dedicated to social and health protection, must not be neglected. In doing so, I think of the possibility that at all levels of executive power, funds are created to help single parents and unemployed mothers. From the point of view of the health care, it is news that this law provides for the establishment of a special health care service for women's health. I also believe that it is important to mention the measures envisaged to help plan families, prevent, advise and treat severe diseases particularly exposed to women, as well as to adjust the working time of women and children's institutions to the needs of users. There could be some comments that the law is not good, that it should not be adopted. My personal objections, as well as most previous colleagues, concern some members who recommend that the less represented gender in institutions be at least 30%. To be more specific, Article 32 states: "The authorising officer is obliged to seek to propose at least 30% of representatives of the less represented gender when appointing members of administrative and supervisory authorities in public services." So, the legislator, in the form of a recommendation, and not in the form of a commitment, proposes that 30% of the representatives of the less-represented sex be represented. I believe that this should not be a recommendation, but a commitment, and that it concerns associations, unions, elected and appointed functions and all authorities. The shortcomings of this law can be corrected by amendments, which my fellow Members of the Parliament club have done, and we will discuss this in particular. I am convinced that the law on gender equality will have a positive impact on our society, not only as an anti-discrimination, but also will play a significant role in improving the social map in Serbia in the future. I think this is a significant step in the process of European integration, because gender equality is one of the conditions leading to the true democracy of society. That is why the G17 Group of MPs plus in the voting day will give its support and vote in favour of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30120	The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic, followed by her, MP Meko Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30121	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic, Mrs. Micunovic, it is obvious that Minister Ljajic is already tired. Three or four hours of discussion, and since these two ministry ladies are still here, they're keeping an eye on our discussion, I think it's proof, among other things, that women are still a stronger sex and that it's very unwarranted when a woman is said to be a weaker sex. Before we move on to the law analysis, Mrs. Comic, I mean to say I resent the assembly presidency because you didn't fight to stop a direct transmission at six o'clock. We often go back to work after six hours. Later the transmission is delayed, mostly after midnight, so that sometimes, if you get up early, turn on the TV, you can see yourself talking in the congregation. If you haven't already been able to convince RTS that this is a very important topic and that you don't need to interrupt the transmission, then you should have decided to continue this debate tomorrow morning. You will admit that the law is important, that women are interested, and rich men are interested in Serbia. The statements that have been heard so far have been constructive and directed, at least with opposition MPs, to correct this legislative proposal. I don't think any bill has been prepared as long as this one. I had the opportunity, as a folk MP, to attend many round tables, public hearings, where this topic was, and I think I know a lot, but, like my colleague from G17, who said she hasn't met up with any problems in her life, I haven't. However, this does not mean that I am not aware that there are in Serbia, as well as in some other countries, in some areas, a considerable gender inequality. So, the DSS thinks this law is necessary. But we also think that there were some other drafts that were a little bit better, so we're not satisfied with the variant, or with this bill, specifically. Not to repeat what colleagues of positions and opposition have said, that this law in some members is declarative, that many uses of verbs are also needed powers. However, I am being assured that some amendments will be adopted to correct such formulations. Serbia's constitution unequivocally declares gender equality by stipulating that the state guarantees equality between women and men. The state is obliged to develop a policy of equal opportunities, so I see this bill as one of the attempts to develop this policy of equal opportunities. Serbia has signed a lot of international agreements that oblige it to lead such a policy in the country, with the fact that I would most like to highlight the argument that this law is the internal need of Serbian society, not the obligation because we have signed some documents. When we do it just for that, then there's no guarantee that such laws will apply. I'd like to look specifically at the position of women in the labour market, because I think it may be the most important aspect of this law, or somehow it touches the largest number of women. Research and analysis shows that women's position today on the labour market in Serbia is unfavourable. However, when you live in a country where Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic is, the position on the labour market is unfavourable for both men and women. I know you don't like to be reminded of some promises from a year ago and something, when the campaign used a lot of sentences that there would be 200,000 new jobs. Instead, every month thousands of people lose their jobs, both men and women. But when it comes to the number of unemployed, there is statistics to see that there is a much higher number, or a percentage of women who are unemployed, compared to men, that men are about 16%, and that women is 24%, and as far as European countries are concerned only in Turkey and Malta, there are more unemployed. In recent decades, or, let me say, for the past 20 years, there's been a significant increase in unemployment, especially among women. It still happens that some companies go bankrupt or stop working, but it was particularly expressed in the 1990s, when large businesses and systems failed, or bad privatisation was carried out in businesses. Let's just say, let me mention the banks, where a large number of women worked, or the textile industry. In the textile industry, it is known that between 80 and 90% of the employees were women. So it's easy to say that women are the biggest victims of transition and that they are on their shoulders, and they still are, they were carrying the greatest burden of all the crises we've been through, and these today. There are significant geographical differences in employment or unemployment rates. Speaking of Belgrade, statistics say unemployment is between 6% and 7% in Belgrade, and if you look at some districts in southern or southeast Serbia, then you have a total unemployment rate of around 35%. These regional differences, when it comes to unemployment, are huge. Then you might think, if you have a general unemployment rate of around 30% or 35% in Pcinj County, and women have a lower employment rate, that the unemployment of the female population is moving as much as 50%. When it comes to long-term unemployment, it's thought that if you've been looking for a job for a year, it's too long, there's 58% of women. People looking for work or waiting for work for over ten years are more than 70%. Studies show that the most vulnerable groups in the labour market are women after maternity leave and women in secondary education, between 45 and 50%. Otherwise, when it comes to age and employment in Serbia, it is expressed in both men and women, i.e. a very high age discrimination in both sexes. It is also known that women are exposed to various forms of discrimination when looking for work and are usually first on lists when losing their jobs. Mr. Ljajic is not here, but the ministry ladies are here. The ministry and the Gender Equality Authority should take into account the announced layoffs in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government authorities. It's something that the government, through the legal proposals we had on the agenda the other day, announced. About 3,500 workers have been announced to be fired. I think it's one of the first waves of the announced discharge, where the Ministry should make sure that there's gonna be a female member and how many male sexes. I repeat because very often it happens that women are the first to be hit when it comes to firing. When it comes to job-seeking, women are exposed to various discriminatory practices and employers' activities, starting from the first stage. I am glad to see in this law how to regulate advertising and that employers who are standing in the ad for work will be punished – looking for a woman, a younger person, say, between 25 and 30 years old. That shouldn't happen anymore. I don't expect to see any more ads like that when this law is passed. In this process of looking for work, very often women, they say, so this is by various research, studying, asking questions they shouldn't ask – about private life, about whether they intend to start a family. Even some employers dare to ask the newly employed to sign a blank resignation or a blank resignation, which will be activated if the woman admitted to the job gets pregnant. Then, problems arise that do not adjust the working conditions of the female sex. There's a big problem with career advancement. Very often, women, perhaps here among us, are faced with the so-called. glass ceiling. It's a barrier you don't see, because it's glass, it's all transparent, and you can't identify which are the pressures or the factors that prevent you, because you think you're equally good, maybe even better, that you're better educated, etc., but that glass ceiling is there. Very often they do not progress, although they show, say, better results than male colleagues. Then, the problem is to coordinate professional and family life. In some cities in Serbia, preschools work up to 14 hours, it's their working hours, or when vacations are in primary and secondary schools, they also announce vacations, so if you work till 16 or 17 hours, you have one three or four hours when you don't know what you're going to do with a child going to preschool. I'm not saying this by heart, I'm saying this from personal experience. So, no matter what the day of day is known, they work in one shift, they end up early, and God forbid they get to work two shifts, so they work from 14 to 20 hours. It's something that can keep you from doing some serious business in your life. According to statistics, however, for 2008, it was done by the Statistics Institute, I think that the edition is called "women and men in Serbia" and that is the second book from that series, I hope that they will continue to monitor it, women are less paid than men in many areas. I have no reason not to trust that statistic, but, for example, in education, where we all believe that women can't happen to be less paid, you have an example that women have 39,000 incomes, and men are 42,000, although I suppose we all live in the belief that it can't happen, because here is the state of employer. Those researches should be a little bit more detailed, so that it's disintegrating how many women work as auxiliary workers, I guess it's there, and the men are either teachers, or they're mostly directors. When I mentioned schools, it's something that makes me very angry as a woman, it happens that there are 80 or 90% women in a collective, but the director is a man. Of course, I don't want to say that there are men who are guilty, I guess women, too, have lack of ambition or simply meet with that glass ceiling. I have an interesting survey here, which was done in September this year. You might find this information interesting. One question was – how important is the physical appearance of employment? By the way, the survey was conducted on a 600-student sample, where 60% of women say that the physical appearance of women is extremely important in employment, while for men only 9% consider the physical appearance to be relevant in employment. This information illustrates what I was talking about and about various discrimination in employment. A large number of women do not know that an employer must not ask his potential associate for data on marital status and family status, and 81% of Serbs are convinced that there is discrimination with us when it comes to labour rights, especially when it comes to women. When it comes to the labour market, we have, since 2005, perhaps the most important law, which is explicit when it comes to labour law, which is, of course, the Labour Law. He has been in force since 2005, as I said, and he regulates the rights, obligations and relations of people in the field of work. This law also prohibits gender and any other discrimination. The law also provides for the bodies responsible for the application of this law, i.e. bodies which are obliged to monitor application and control employers and what is happening on the labour market. It's a labour inspection and it's the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Labour Act therefore also provides for bodies to take care of problems and discrimination on the labour market. However, since these phenomena exist although these and other laws are in force, it can only be concluded that this surveillance is not good, that this surveillance is bad and that they appear in practice not sanctioned. It's bad that this law has mild criminal provisions, too. Let's say, I know that it seems to me, now in the course of training for labour inspectors, that the Ministry has also printed a brochure that should train the inspectors to apply the Labour Act, when it comes to these provisions, therefore, about inequality on the labour market, and that there is a lot of resistance in the inspection service itself. Now I would refer to several members of the law, which is the second chapter, which speaks, among other things, about employment, social policy and health care. In Article 11, the title of Article 11, says, "Employed opportunities". We have this description of what equal possibilities are. It is also defined what is not considered discrimination, or violation of the principles of equal opportunities. Point 1) says, "Special measures to increase employment and employment opportunities for less employed sex". So it is a positive discrimination and this article is said to be not considered discrimination. The government is the biggest employer. These are all those interests we say in the jargon that they're on the budget. I'm here to ask a specific question and to illustrate a specific situation. For example, I know he's in high school, I'm talking about education, the employer is the government and everyone's on the budget, 90% of the teaching staff and female associates, and 10% are men. When the school announces a competition, for example, for a professor of English, five women appear in the competition, because they are usually professors of the language of a woman, whether or not they call us 'languages' – five women also report to a professor of English, a man. Is it possible, since the gender is less represented in that school, to appeal to this law, to this member of the law, and to say – in high school, men are less represented sex? It's good, I see the Ministry's climate, etc., so this law, although we're always talking about repairing women's employment, helping unemployed men. Then that woman will be out of a job, or we won't be able to get a job. I'm talking about several professions where mostly women are -- it's about the judiciary, it's about health care, and it's about education. So, in this team, let me tell the institutions, there's a lot more work women than men. There, men are less gendered, so they'll be able to benefit from this law, but then women will have damage. Article 13 states that an employer with a working relationship of more than 500 employees indefinitely is required to adopt a plan of measures to remove or mitigate the irregular representation of sex for each calendar year, no later than 31 January. In translation, you have only prescribed here that large systems are obliged to make such plans. Over 80% of Serbia's companies are small and medium-sized. The company with 500 workers belongs to the category of large enterprises. Unfortunately, I wish it were different, but the big systems are very small. I was very surprised to see that you only impose this obligation on large businesses because they are not there, and below that are all small and medium-sized enterprises. It simply leads to the conclusion that you have not taken this problem seriously. The DSS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment. We suggest that it be – an employer who employs more than 50, and I think it belongs to a medium-sized company. You said you accepted that amendment. There's something else that's not there. We have submitted an amendment, practically, this would be a new member of 18 — it is an evaluation of home work. Nowhere in the law mentions domestic work and its evaluation. I wish we were a rich country, so we could afford to have enough money to give a woman who's in the house, who might be doing more work, or who has a job at a company, we could pay some kind of salary. Unfortunately, that's impossible. However, the amendment provided that the state could ensure that such a woman is entitled to health insurance on the basis of work in the house, unless health insurance is regulated by other means. A woman who is a housewife, who runs a household, who takes care of children or other family members, could get so much from this country – if at least health insurance was provided. For that amendment, I don't know what you've decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30122	Thank you. Before I give my word to MP Meji Omerovic, in accordance with Article 27, I ask that information be transferred to the working bodies, or committees of the National Assembly – that the amendment to which MPs of various parliamentary groups have spoken, and as far as the number of employees is concerned, has been accepted, so that we do not have any confusion. It's about one idea and one amendment. I ask that the presidents of the parent committees – for gender equality and legislation – be given their report in such a way as to include the acceptance of all applicants of the amendment, not one of them, regardless of whether it is a time-limit, an alphabet order or whatever, because it is an identical idea. The promoter has accepted the idea of an amendment. I'm asking for this to be passed on to the presidents of the working bodies. There is a word from MP Meho Omerovic, and after him, MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30123	Thank you. Dear Mrs Comic, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to keep your attention on several aspects that I think are worth mentioning in this already comprehensive debate. The Law on Gender Equality is one of the important laws, which should not only bring us closer to the developed civilised world, but, above all, contribute to the modernisation and democratisation of our society. A series of international conventions introduce guarantees for gender equality, with the aim of eliminating all forms of discrimination. These documents are for the states of the signatories, and certainly for Serbia, because we have signed and ratified almost all international agreements in this area, i.e. They propose measures to change the social and cultural model of behaviour, in order to eliminate all prejudice, customs and practices that promote inferiority and stereotypes. They promote cultural patterns and social opportunities for shared responsibility and equal opportunities, both for women and for men. Before me, in a full-day debate, my colleagues said that countries are in the environment – BiH, Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro, have already passed specific laws on gender equality. By adopting normative frameworks in this area, we will create systemic preconditions for establishing gender equality as a lasting social value. After the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality, Serbia will be able to join countries that have passed specific laws on gender equality, based on the National Strategy to improve women's positions, the improvement of gender equality, which has already been discussed, which was adopted in February this year. We heard from government officials, government ministers, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, all those elements that contain this law on gender equality. I wouldn't repeat them this time, I'll point only to some that, in my opinion, are of importance. It should be pointed out that this bill is qualitatively better compared to the proposed law on gender equality that was in the assembly procedure a few years ago and whose basic deficiency was in that he was trying to prescribe a binding quota for the participation of the less represented sex in the authorities, in collective negotiations, in international co-operation and in other areas. I'll just give you some examples. Only some of the more developed countries have "hard" quotas, but I don't think that's necessary with us, because in some situations, acting on this quota is even impossible. For example, how do we prescribe that, within the framework of international co-operation, 30 % of the less represented gender, if the delegation is protocolary, if it is determined by function and if the composition of the delegation is represented by representatives, or the president of the relevant authorities, whether it is women or men? In most cases, this prescribed rate of participation of a less represented sex may be possible, but in some cases it will not be possible, so there would be a violation of the law. I therefore believe that the good wording contained in this bill on gender equality, which reads: "It will seek to ensure that the less represented half of 30%... “ I am convinced that the state authorities of Serbia and all others who are obliged to comply with this law will respect that provision and will not be misused. I'm not saying this because I think that as a society, we're generally mature, or, as our people would say, what we've seen. No one is indifferent anymore when women, mothers, and children are abused in the family. Violents are being brought to justice. I must point out that not only international organisations, but also NGOs from the state of Serbia, who initiated and with their active participation, have contributed to discrimination and to all its forms being banned. For example, abuse exists in other laws, mentioning the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, Labour Act, the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, the Family Code, the Criminal Code and others, including the establishment of the relevant institutions that we have introduced into our system – the Protector of Citizens, the Ombudsman, the Trustee of the availability of information of public importance, administrations and institutions at the republic and the province level, which has already been discussed. Soon, I believe, by the end of the year, there will be a law on banning abuse at work. So our society is moving in one good direction when it comes to gender equality. We, unfortunately, are not ideal yet, and we are far from ideal. Primitiveism is still a common phenomenon, which overcomes the advanced. We still have a negative selection structure in place, I will honestly say, as a product of often party interests within the ruling coalition, before which responsible and honorable people are withdrawn and sheltered. Basically, human stupidity, lack of education and a poor understanding of democracy and constructive, is a critical opinion. However, it is good that we are aware of this today, more public talk must be made, such phenomena must be recognized, they must be criticised, they must be corrected in the end. It is, in addition to good laws, the only way to democratisation our society, both in the area we are talking about today, in the fields of gender equality, and in all other areas and areas of social and economic life. That is why I believe that this law on gender equality is another good law, which will bring Serbia closer to the civilized world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30124	The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic. After her, MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30125	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, who will follow this session in a delayed period, are ahead of us with a bill on gender equality that should be a necessary legal instrument to further improve equality between women and men in Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees that everyone has the right to equal protection, without discrimination, and that any discrimination is prohibited, directly and indirectly, on any basis, and by gender. It is evident that in Serbia, as everywhere in the world, there is a dose of discrimination against women and it is seen in the disproportionate presence of women, when it comes to working relationships, about women's participation in politics and other spheres of life. The situation also makes it difficult for future mothers to be at the mercy of employers because they face the problem of making decisions whether to continue their careers or to raise a family, even though women's participation in both of these areas of life is necessary. In addition, women often experience various inconveniences from superior men. Also, the fact is that domestic violence is on the rise in Serbia, and women are often targeted. For these and many other reasons, we believe that lawmaking in this area is necessary. We're wondering, why bring a law that's only going to be a dead letter on paper? This law has many essential and technical disadvantages. In addition, certain provisions of this law are already regulated by the provisions of other laws, such as the Family Act, the Labour Act, the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, the Criminal Code and others, while certain provisions of the law are not precisely defined. One of the shortcomings is that language formulations in the law are general. The bill does not specify the regulation of equal opportunities for each individual, regardless of which half. Many members, as many colleagues have already said, do not recognize the address of the obligation, which can lead to the avoidance of obligations by the person to whom the law applies. For example, I will read one member of the law, which is Article 19: 'The employer should seek to offer a less represented half-30% place in one cycle of professional training, i.e. the number of places proportional to the participation of that sex in the total number of employees in the employer or in the organisational unit for which training is carried out.' Non-binding formulations, such as 'need to try', not 'debt', leave a lot of space, i.e. leave at the will of employers or public authorities to comply with the law and to act in accordance with it, or to be passive in the implementation of this law. Passivity cannot prevent criminal provisions, which in this case are symbolic fines. In addition to the fact that the law is imprecise speech and Article 10. In Article 10, we have the definition of "service provider", but we don't know exactly, we can't figure out exactly which subjects it's about. In addition, Article 10 defines the term "employee", which is unnecessary because the term is defined by the Labour Act. The Progressive Group has submitted an amendment to Article 13, which we have proposed a reduction in the number of 500 employees, but the minister said in the law's interpretation that the figure of 500 has been replaced by a figure of 50 employees, which is good. The question arises, could this provision be applicable if the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises prevail in Serbia, after the privatisation process, is taken into account? In addition, the SNS has submitted more amendments to improve and more precisely define this law. The SNS believes that the bill is not concrete, nor accurate, and the number of amendments submitted by MPs belonging to the ruling majority also speaks in favour. Also, the Forward Parliamentary Club believes that achieving equal opportunities and achieving equality is not possible by passing this law, which will remain a dead letter on paper, i.e. It won't be applicable. Not all things in life can be reduced to law enforcement. It's about relationships, too. Also, we must all have the will and awareness of the need for men and women to be equal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30126	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Time is available for two minutes and 30 seconds. After him, national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30127	Respected chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP welcomes the adoption of new laws strengthening anti-discrimination legislation in the Republic of Serbia. The proposed text of the Gender Equality Act contains high standards for removing different forms of discrimination, including judicial protection, which is why LDP will support this law in the voting day. However, by harmonising our legislation with European legislation, we cannot do so in all other areas of social life without doing so when it comes to human rights. Achieving equal opportunities and achieving gender equality is not only possible by passing laws, but there must be political will and, most importantly, there must be awareness of the implementation of this law. Otherwise, we in the LDP fear that the provisions of this law remain only a dead letter on paper, as happens with many laws adopted not only by this one, but also by the previous assembly. I will just point out that this is about the Law on Lustration, the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities, the Law on Discrimination and other laws. This is where I would most notably address my fellow MPs from the ruling coalition. We cannot talk about respect for human rights, about making laws that should be established here in Serbia, and that our government, or the Foreign Ministry, when it comes to the resolution on human rights violations in Iran, does not support that resolution, but votes against it. In this way we show how we want to talk about human rights, or talk selectively about human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30128	The word has a folk MP Elena Christmas-Talian, followed by her, a folk letter from Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Bill on Gender Equality, the fundamental question that is being asked is – how do we ensure that the law, which in most parts should be improved by amendments, and how will the rights relating to gender equality, which guarantees and the Constitution, be protected in practice and not just theoretically? The basic problem of this bill, as well as many others adopted by the ruling majority, is the fact that they are only being adopted because they are a condition for some uncertain entry into the EU, not because they are essentially seeking to meet certain standards. This leads to laws being simply copied, not taking into account the specificities of our country and not creating conditions for the application of the law, which is why they remain just a dead letter on paper. This regime only declares certain materials and values, as well as gender equality, and nothing seems to provide conditions for achieving gender equality. This attitude has led to today's lack of movement in breaking stereotypes that achieving gender equality is not a woman's problem and is not a woman's issue, but a social issue. That's also an ethical question, because how can a society allow and tolerate a part of the population having fewer opportunities, less rights, or endanger and violate its fundamental human rights? Those who represent themselves as unimpaired fighters for the introduction of European standards, here, for a full nine years have failed to bring the main mechanism for achieving gender equality and the bill is today on the agenda. It should also be stressed that the achievement of gender equality must not depend on political will, but is an obligation for each government, because gender equality as a basic human right is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The bill on gender equality cannot be seen in isolation, but in the context of conditions that enable or disable its implementation and, in general, the achievement of gender equality, which should be ensured by the government. Therefore, this bill should be observed in relation to the strategies already adopted that regulate this matter, as well as the changes necessary in certain laws that should have been adopted long ago, in order to ensure mechanisms for achieving equal opportunities and the rights of women and men in the business, family and social sphere. It would be a context that needs to create conditions for the implementation of this law. The question of gender equality is very sensitive, because when we talk about the part of the population that, in most cases, is in a worse position, and these are certainly women, the problem is that, legally, nothing prevents women from providing a better position in society, but customs, discriminatory practice, etc. make it impossible for women to move forward. There has been a paradoxical situation that emancipation of women has loaded a lot of obligations and led them into an awkward position, not to say an unfavourable position that, in addition to work and career, women carry the greatest burden and family obligations. On the other hand, the state has not provided a minimum of conditions to help women coordinate their professional and family life, such as the one they are. increasing the capacity of care services for children and old people, because in this segment care is left to women, or, for example, to enable more flexible employment relations for mothers of young children, adapting jobs to women who want to have more children, etc. What the government's relationship with this complex social issue, the achievement of gender equality, has shown the following data. By the end of 2007, there was no body in charge of implementing gender equality policy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He was educated only in the Gender Equality Council, as a professional advisory body of the government in 2004. Only this year did the government adopt a national strategy to improve women's positions and improve gender equality. The strategy envisions that the government will adopt an action plan to implement this strategy within six months of the day of publication of the Strategy. It's been eight months now, the action plan hasn't been brought in yet. I couldn't find it on the government site. However, the strategy itself only confirms that the government has approached this complex issue superficially and does not understand the essence of the problem. The strategy is not comprehensive. It deals with improving the position of women, but completely excludes men from this process, and it is essential to adopt measures that promote their role and involve them in the process of achieving equality. Without the full involvement of men, it is not possible to achieve gender equality, because equality involves improving relations between men and women and achieving balances in the distribution of power, resources and responsibility. Also, the position of men and their rights has been completely ignored. Of course, the position of the female population is much worse, that they are more vulnerable, but the achievement of gender equality implies the implementation of equal measures and activities, and if men's rights are discriminated against, as well as when women's rights are discriminated against. For example, special attention needed to be given in the Strategy to the role of fathers in the development of personality and child rearing. It was also necessary to take into account the specific circumstances of our region and the need to create programmes for psychosocial assistance to men with the psychological consequences of traumatic war experiences. When it comes to the problem of violence, it is necessary to create programmes for the psychosocial treatment of men who apply domestic violence, as well as programmes for psychosocial assistance to men victims of violence and trafficking of persons, etc. This is not mentioned in the Strategy, and in the law on gender equality, in Article 29, it is only mentioned in principle that discrimination is not seen as specific measures and programmes aimed at the perpetrators of domestic violence, in order to prevent further violence, nothing more. There's a lot of that principle and abstract in this law. When we get to the concrete, we see that reality is different, that there is no answer to the question of how all these rights will be protected practically. For example, the field of labour and employment is the central and most important part of the law on gender equality, and the already adopted Labour Law contains some solutions aimed at achieving gender equality in the field of labour and employment. The Labour Act, which was adopted in 2005, as the authors of the Strategy finds themselves, "the gender equality in terms of employment, election of calls, working conditions, labour rights, education, training and training, promotion at work, termination of employment contracts, bans on harassment and sexual harassment of employees, the responsibility of the employer for illegal treatment, maternity leave, absence from work for child care and absence from work for the care of the child and special protection against the termination of the labour contract". So, did the Labour Law lead to improvements in the position of women? It's not. How will the law on gender equality lead to the improvement of women's positions in these important areas that treat both laws, in which there has been no shift and improvement since 2005? So, norms remain a dead letter on paper, because the government is uninterested in creating conditions for their implementation. This is best seen in the case of laws and strategies that rely on each other, which deal with the same matter and which should be complemented. For example, in the Strategy to improve women's position and achieve gender equality, it is correctly concluded that ''economic equality between women and men is necessary to achieve a balance in women and men's relations. If they do not have the same conditions and opportunities for economic independence, all other measures to improve gender equality are less likely to succeed." That's right. It also points out as a positive fact that in the Republic of Serbia there are rather rights reserved for maternity leave, leave for child care, etc. This strategy underlines the importance of adopting related strategic documents, including the strategy for reducing poverty in Serbia, the National Employment Strategy, which supports labour market equality and envisions various measures of positive action. So, all of this is pointed out in the Strategy to improve women's position. It should be said that in countries where there have been for many years, gender equality laws address the problem of poverty to some extent, as well as discrimination against marginalised groups. The improvement in the social and economic situation of women should also be one of the purposes of this law, because they are in a worse position, and this would ultimately lead to an increase in birth. In a broader context, the achievement of gender equality implies and the achievement of social security for all members of society, which means the adoption of specific measures to protect the socially most vulnerable categories of men and women. This, in their action plans to achieve gender equality, defined those countries that are fundamentally dealing with this problem. That is why the poverty reduction strategy is a document related to this matter, although the minister, as he said earlier, thinks it has nothing to do with achieving gender equality. So we see that on paper they are correctly defined or copied from the file of international organisations, the EU, etc. some of the main directions towards achieving gender equality. However, the current regime all comes down to a mere declarative pledge, because in practice we have the announcement by Minister Ljajic that, believe it or not, in our country, where citizens barely survive, there is room within the social protection system to save about two billion dinars in the coming year, and that, according to the minister, despite the fact that our social benefits are less than in the EU countries, even from countries in the region. As you can see, they can be even smaller. In that sense, the minister decided to save first of all on maternity leave and announced that the basis for determining maternity benefits would change and that it would save 1.5 billion dinars. Earlier, the minister tries to explain that savings of 1.5 billion dinars do not mean a reduction in compensation. I don't know if anyone understood the Minister's mathematics, I didn't. This is a particularly ugly decision, given that you have received a recommendation to include, by law, the requirements laid down by the European Social Charter on the prevention and elimination of discrimination based on gender equality and on the improvement of gender equality. These are, among others, Article 8. European Social Charter – the right of an employed woman to protect motherhood, and Article 16 – the right of a family to social, legal and economic protection. So, as I said, you're essentially not interested in those liquids, values and standards that would really lead to a better position. I don't know if it should remind me that the demographic situation in Serbia is alarming, that every year Serbia loses 30,000 inhabitants and if this trend of negative natural growth continues, in 50 years, Serbia would be a million and a half people less. These are the data from the Center for Demographic Research. Another indication that the government has no intention at all to lay the groundwork for achieving gender equality is the fact that this bill on gender equality has excluded the home labor evaluation institute for non-employees, which was an integral part of the bill that you have been working on and processing. It's about the next one. Homework care is a duty, mostly, of women, especially of the unemployed. For their work in the house they don't get any compensation. In the previous bill, there was a solution that these persons were entitled to health insurance on the basis of work in the house, provided that they were not health insurance on some other basis. So it's out of this law. Article 24. In principle, the bill deals with health care, noting what is covered by women's health care, and intends to present that there is a concern for women's health, especially reproductive health. This is also pointed out in the Strategy. First of all, it's wrong to put the accent on women's health only, and men are neglected. This matter should be regulated by the Health Protection Act, but this is another good example of illustrating the mere declarative commitment of the authorities and showing that there is no concern about health or women or men, because everything is written on paper, but there is nothing in practice. We will point to basic problems here when it comes to reproductive health and point out what the SRS stands for in this regard. Otherwise, the right to reproductive health today falls within the scope of basic human rights. If there were indeed any concern by the authorities, changes to the Health Protection Act would already be adopted to ensure that services related to the reproductive health of women and men are improved. Taking into account the specific health needs of women and men, this would mean, when it comes to women, the introduction of a systematic screening for early detection of uterus cancer and breast cancer. It should be a mandatory part of primary health care. When it comes to men, it would be measures to prevent prostate cancer. One measure of concern for the reproductive health of women and men would be free contraception for adolescents. Also, the SRS believes it is necessary for the full standard delivery service to be free of charge. Now women in Belgrade hospitals, Visegrad Street and National Front Street are charged with epidural anaesthesia of 30,000 dinars. Epidural anesthesia cannot be included in non-standard services and cannot be charged, as it is not possible to charge for the presence of a father to give birth. The only thing that can be charged is luxury, for example, better accommodation options, etc., but not this elemental service. Women are also disabled to choose an obstetrician; if he wants to choose his obstetrician, the woman has to pay 40,000. Stopping pregnancy, of course, is not the right kind of family planning, but it is a problem when you charge 28,000 dinars. Where and where will those women who have no money go and who choose to stop their pregnancy, and what consequences can that lead to? Ensuring a quality service for family planning and treating infertility is another beautiful phrase from the Strategy, which in reality few can afford because the treatment of infertility is very expensive, especially out-of-body insemination. Article 29. The bill defines anti-discrimination measures and programmes to combat domestic violence, eliminate prejudice and raise public awareness on the issue. Violence against women is a serious social problem. The cases of violence have been a violation of human rights, however, so far the results of this and previous governments, since 2000, have been very weak in the field of combating violence against women. Even what's simple to do is ignored, and these are changes to the Criminal Code. It is unacceptable to conduct such a criminal policy that protects a bully, and the victim remains unprotected. Penalties for the crimes of domestic violence are mild, and courts themselves lead a mild criminal policy and impose penalties that are closer to the legal minimum. Therefore, it is necessary to tighten criminal sanctions on both the normative plan and the case law. The only question remains, why has it not been done so far? Through amendments, the SRS will show how this bill should be amended, but remains a fundamental issue – how will law enforcement be ensured? By all accounts, this law will be the same as with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which you brutally violate whenever it is politically opportunised to you, and this is what our colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic and I felt best on our skin. The ruling majority, i.e. the Administrative Committee, does not allow us to resign to the mandate of the MP, so that we have come into the situation that we are hostages to the self-will of the ruling majority and that it forces us to be MPs against our will. It is scandalous and incredible and has not happened in any parliament in the world, but it is unfortunately possible in Serbia run by this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30130	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30131	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I agree with some of the views that have been expressed here. It is true, the minister is gone, the secretary of state is here and a co-worker from the ministry, so, according to counterpart Donka Banovic, women are a stronger sex. One colleague said that there are different statistics and that some would benefit men, or some would benefit women. Let's just say, out of the 20 people reported who want to talk about this law, there are seven men. So the men here are the less represented sex and the fact is that women are much more interested in defending women's rights in Serbia. What can we conclude from that? If there were to be more politicians, because if women in Serbia were to wait for men to represent their interests, they would have to wait at least twice as long. I speak on my own behalf and on behalf of the G17 Plus Party, which can be praised for being a leader in this area, not only as regards representing women's rights, but as regards the exercise of women's rights, above all, when we talk about women's political rights. Why? Because G17 plus the party that first introduced 30% of women to parliament, when there was no obligation to find 30% of women on the electoral lists. It was in 2004, before such a law on the election of MPs was passed. Today, the G17 plus parliamentary group has 32% of women. As far as the authorities of our party are concerned, the situation is no worse, on the contrary, better. Namely, in the chairmanship of the G17 Plus party, of the 17 members, seven women, which is 41%, and of the four vice presidents of the party, are three women, which is 75%. The head of the Parliament Group is a woman. We have given the wife to the Deputy Prime Minister, and in the statutes of our party there is a obligation to have at least 30% of the less represented sex in all bodies. That is why I believe that we are absolutely invited as a parliamentary group to support one of these laws and try to make it even better, which we have tried, through the amendment. This is my third term in the Assembly and from the beginning, through all three mandates, there has been a debate in the Assembly on whether we need a special law on the protection of the equal position of women and men and whether women in Serbia are truly discriminated against, whether they are in a worse position than men. Today we could hear different ideas about it. Some claimed that the situation is not the case, that women in Serbia have so far had the exact same rights as men. I would agree with that to some extent, given the fact that we live in a country where our mothers, in some socialist past, really enjoyed a much greater amount of women's rights than was possible in many countries of Europe and in many countries of the world. That's a fact. We inherit that legacy and it's one good starting point for all of us and, I would say, for our daughters and our grandchildren. It's a time when women could be educated just like men, it's a time when women are encouraged to work, to work, not stay at home. It's a time when women were allowed to freely plan a family, a time in which no parole was written on the walls that an abortion was a murder. But times change. Why do we need the law now? At least for two reasons. The first is because, despite all these rights that I was talking about, there was always a kind of hidden discrimination against women. What was he looking at? As we have already had the opportunity to hear, there has often been a situation in the field of employment where women have been discriminated against and they have been asked additional questions; or they are discriminated on the basis of their family plans, or on the basis of their age, or on the basis of their looks. There were various hidden forms of discrimination. I want to say publicly, although I'm going to say it, probably, for those of us who look at us at three o'clock tonight, that, say, our JAT airline doesn't have an employee of any female pilots. A few years ago, we had a visit here in Parliament of female pilots. In Serbia, they exist, are very capable and are highly trained and trained. It wasn't easy for them to get through this training, but none of them ever made it through the contest, none of them were ever able to get a job as a pilot, which doesn't mean they didn't have a hand in some other countries. So our women pilots fly planes by Swiss companies, some other worldwide companies, but here in Serbia it wasn't possible. Women in Serbia are professionally often invisible and I advocate absolutely using and natively sensitive language, because I believe that professions should also be said in women's gender. It's not just those languages that are dead. That for Serbia, fortunately, is not valid. So language is a living and variable creation. There are words with different meanings that are the same in our language and that is something that is acceptable. The only question is whether you want to do it or not, and what's the point of it. I absolutely advocate that women be visible in this way. As women appear in public, as shown in textbooks, as shown, let's say, in advertising, I think that's something we all know. If you are looking at the average Serbian ad, the woman is depicted as a person who cares very much about looking good, carefully picking out hair shampoos, and is very concerned about having lush and distracted hair, which is why men will notice her. Of course, it's important for her to marry well, for the man who solves the fate of world problems by drinking beer. When she's happily married, then she's desperate if she hasn't removed some stain, or she's, on the contrary, very happy if she's managed to keep her man's shirt black enough. It's a picture of women in our ads, in our media, in our public. Women’s magazines, mostly, speak of beauty or provide good recipes for how to be a good housewife. The second reason, apart from the hidden discrimination I was talking about, is certainly the return of traditional and patriarchal forms to our society which, I fear, tend to be dominant, as well as the impact of the church and the expansion of the influence of the church on the public sphere and the education system. Why isn't that good? Because no religion, no matter who it is, has brought much good to women's rights. We have introduced religion into schools and thus allowed our girls and our boys to learn about how a woman is second-class, to learn about how a woman came from one part of a man, it's not the heart or the brain, but one much more important part – a rib, but when she's left here to keep him company and to meet some other needs, she bit the apple of sin and the woman, according to these teachings, is the one who is responsible for the sin of all mankind. Of course sex is something that is only allowed for the purpose of having children. I have to say another impression from one of our TV shows, when one, by the way, respected professor, whom I very respected by then, was talking about how an unhappy little girl, under the threat of being raped, jumped off the floor and committed suicide. He's, I'm not going to say with enthusiasm, but he was talking about how it's an act of exceptional courage and how that girl church wants to declare, or pronounce her a saint. I was really appalled, as a psychologist, as a mother, as a citizen of this country, to send girls a message that death is a better choice than what a traditional form would call a loss of honor. I believe death is no better choice for young people, and I think it's very important that we all send this message together. As a result of all these strengthening of traditional forms, we have the fact that the Constitution does not specify that the right to free decision on the birth of a woman. We have a Family Law that makes many modern solutions, as well as a minister who makes many modern solutions in the field of human rights protection, but the Family Law, only at the initiative of the Serbian Parliament, makes a solution for women to decide on birth. This law also does not speak of a woman deciding to give birth, saying that a man and a woman equally decide to give birth, if I am not mistaken, may have been adopted. However, the Family Law did not interfere with the Constitution, we succeeded. So this law says that a man and a woman decide equally about the birth of a child. What happens when, say, they can't make a deal? The law on artificial insemination has already been mentioned. And there we had problems just because there was always some other law. What is the situation with statistics, many have already spoken about it. Men's salaries are 16% higher than women's wages. Of those who leave work for family reasons, 80% are women. After divorce, children are trusted in 80% of women's cases. That doesn't make it known if they and their children are family, because we define the family as a community of men and women. In 77% of cases, property is owned by men. Education – 51% of students are women, but masters of science, only 36%, and doctors, 30%, which means that the degree of education is increasing and that the years in which the family is formed are decreasing. The judge is 60% female, but the president of the courts is only 40%. The director is 20% of the women. Chairman of the board of directors, 14%. As for politics, in 2002 there were 12% of women in Parliament, now there are 21% of us, and that is certainly the result of a law in which there are mandatory quotas. We have the President of Parliament, and there are 50% women among the vice presidents. Congratulations. As for the locals, in the local authorities, in 2000 there were 7% of women, now, after a 30% commitment, there are 21%. Since 2000, there have been only two to four ministers, in governments so far, five, which is 18.5%. Of those five, three are from G17 plus, that's what I have to say. The secretary of state is 22.7%, and the assistant is 42.6%. Here you have that reverse trend – as power falls, so the number of women grows, as the number of jobs to be done for the minister increases, so the number of women grows. Very logical. Now let me read you something on one occasion. This is how one person addresses another person. "Ma'am, I really want something, but you haven't guessed what I want. If I were as diabolical as you, so maybe I assumed what you wanted, you might even like it." If we assume that this is how a man talks to a woman where they're alone, she's not answering anything to this, we might think he's talking to her about some of his wishes, some of his delusions, and that's all right. However, if I were to tell you that this conversation is taking place in public, in front of a large part of the public, and that Mrs. Psychologist, then you might think that she's silent because she's wondering what's wrong with a man who has to use a million-dollar auditorium to express his wishes. But this is about a stenogram of the Serbian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how one head of Parliament's parliamentary group addresses. Of course, this address is not to address a man to a woman, but to address a parliamentary party chief to the president of Parliament, the institution of the Serbian state, and we can interpret that he is thus telling Serbian women that they do not belong to be Parliament's president, but that they should simply be there for men to project their wishes on them. That's what's unacceptable. So that's what this law has to fight. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to paraphrasise the opinion of a "fighter" for human and female rights -- that a society in which women's rights are not fully achieved is not less female than that of less human. With that in mind, as well as the fact that G17 plus, as I said at first, is already applying this law since its founding, with the amendments that have been accepted and our amendments, which I believe have been accepted, we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30132	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30133	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on gender equality is a necessary and extremely important law from a set of discriminatory laws, which will complete anti-discrimination laws in Serbia. As such, it would have to be in line with the generally accepted rules of international law, the approved international agreements of the RS and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees gender equality, which is largely, but not quite. The law is on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament from the fourth attempt and has not earned, nor is it an area covered by it irrelevant, to be so confusing, incomplete and adopted in order, 30 years since the adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. We're not late for the world much, for about 30 years, and for God's sake, for countries in the environment, too. For example, in 2003, BiH passed such a law at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and even parliament, not to enter – this existing or non-existent state, etc., the Kosovo parliament passed such a law in 2004. In their case, it may mean nothing, but I am afraid by adopting such a law will mean nothing in Serbia either. On the other hand, the confusion of the law and the bad formulation are no wonder, because this law reminds me of the RS government, which is also confusing. The number of 101 amendments, at least as many as I count, I don't know if I've been able to count them all, to sort them all right, of which, even, 30 amendments from the ruling group's parties, to the proposed 57 members, of how many the law consists, speak best about the quality of the bill and the opinion of the MPs on it. The Gender Equality Act must be applicable. As I said, it must comply with European and world standards. First of all, it must comply with other RS laws, starting with the Anti-discrimination Act, which is not the case in the case of the proposed text of the law. The main objection that is being made through the entire law, the uncertainty and the optionalness of the law, are the formulations of the type "needs to strive", not "it is due". This leaves the possibility for entities to ignore individual members of the law, or even the whole law, which shows that there is no political will of the Government to apply this law, that there is no awareness of the need to introduce principles, policies and measures that are adopted and implemented in systemic solutions and their implementation, but that the law is passed in order to meet EU criteria, not because of the need or desire of the Government to introduce gender equality. It's 20 hours and 38 minutes. This footage will go around about half past three, three in the morning. The minister is not present. So much for the government's opinion on the importance of this law. As far as the law itself is concerned, if we analyze it in detail, we will see that only certain members of the law are adequate subjects to which they apply. If we go from Article 1, the argument is that Article 1 does not give the definition of equality as an idea relating to the whole law, but there is a general formula governing the creation of equal opportunities. Then, in Article 2, which guarantees respect for international standards and constitutional guarantees, the state was left with the obligation to regularly report international bodies on the achievement of gender equality, which could be interpreted as the freedom of the state to fully and inconsistencies by signing international agreements and conventions. An example would be the Convention to remove all forms of discrimination against women and in 2006, when an initial report was submitted for the state of Serbia between 1992 and 2006, which said Serbia had not reported the removal of forms of discrimination for more than 10 years. Article 4 is also very controversial in which the definition of discrimination differs from the definition given in the Law on the prohibition of discrimination. True, it's not about some big differences, but in any case, the definition of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is clearer. It's much worse in this one, not to say unhappy. Example: Article 4(3) presents a poor interpretation of Article 8. The law prohibiting discrimination, which regulates the violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. Given that it has been written in a very general way, it was necessary to comply with the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, for the reason that this law more clearly defines the violation of the principle of law and freedom, or the imposition of obligations, because it says that unwarranted denial of rights and freedoms is not denied or imposes on another person or a group of persons in a similar situation, if the objective and consequences of the measures taken are unwarranted and as if there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objective achieved by these measures. In Article 4. The proposal for a law on gender equality, in paragraph 3, states that under undue distinction, exclusion, restriction and conduct, or other measures taken within the meaning of this law, is particularly considered – if the measure taken is not justified by the legitimate or legitimate objective, that is, point 1. Now I'd like one of you to explain to me what kind of legal and legitimate discrimination this is? I don't understand that idea at all. Can discrimination be legitimately legal and is it in that case called discrimination? Yes, by your definition. What is completely amazing is a Article 11, which sets out the employer's obligation to provide equal opportunities and treatment for all employees, regardless of gender. This would not be a problem if it were not for the definition of the employer in Article 10(1), point 8, which says that the employer is a legal or natural person who employs one or more persons, that is, employed by one or more persons, except the public authority. What does this mean? Does this mean that this law imposes obligations on private employers, while public authorities have no obligation on them? They have obligations, but why is it different in law? In the bill of law, it's different. It's in art. 10th and 11th of this law. I don't know what the explanation is, but it says so. Does this mean that certain laws do not apply to the state and public administration bodies, and, on the other hand, does this mean that employees in public authorities remain without guarantee of equal opportunities and treatment, regardless of gender? The question arises – for what reason do many obligations be imposed on private employers without the same rules being applicable to the state? If we look at article 13. The bill, which states that an employer who has a working relationship of more than 500, you have accepted an amendment in which 50, employees at an indefinite time, are obliged to adopt a plan of measures to remove or mitigate the irregular representation of sex for each calendar year, and by 31 January at the latest, then we come to the fact that this provision will apply, well, in that case it would be to a small number of enterprises, now, to a much larger number, but they are enterprises that will not have to comply with this law, because why would they, after all, respect him, if for the state, as the largest employer, this law does not apply? What's the point of adopting this law? In order to justify this nonsense, the Government has provided for Article 14, or Government, by writing Article 14, which refers to public authorities with regard to the representation of the less represented sex, at least 30% in each organisational unit, in the management posts and in the management and control bodies. The problem is that this formulation is not set as an obligation, because it says: "They should try", not "they are in debt". As regards Article 15, which states that when public advertising of jobs and conditions for their performance and decision-making on the selection of persons seeking employment in order to establish a working relationship or other form of employment, it is not allowed to make a gender difference, it is not specified to whom this applies. It's clear, in fact, that it refers to private entrepreneurs, not the state. In particular, it is necessary for the State, or its authorities, to be obliged to comply with gender discrimination rules when public advertising business, labour relations and employment, in order to set a positive example in the application of law, not to exclude public authorities, or the state itself. Now you would say that, however, Article 54, says very clearly – with a fine of between 10,000 and 100,000 dinars, the employer will be punished for the offence of the legal person if, point 4), when public advertising jobs, conditions for their conduct and decision-making of a person to establish a working relationship or other form of employment, makes a difference in half. It refers to Article 15. However, we are going back to that definition of employer, where the employer is every legal and physical person, except the public authority. For most of the members between 15 and 41, there are minor problems, not at all, of course, but I will discuss them in detail. Now I get to Article 41. For what reason do I feel that a member of 41st is meaningless in this form? I think it's very badly written, and now I'm going to explain why. Article 41 states that, through means of public information, information must not contain or encourage gender-based discrimination. This is okay. However, Article 2 states – the provisions of Article 1 also apply to all types of advertising and propaganda material. This provision is very discriminatory in interpreting equality or discrimination. Let me explain it very plasticly now. Is that, say, because the lady who was the previous speaker gave me a nice idea of what kind of example I could use, that in all the commercials for detergents, who, of course, advertise women, maybe in some percentage of 99%, if not 100%, is discrimination? Is it, for example, any man, if he considers that he has been discriminated against by not getting a job advertising detergent, has the right to open proceedings before a competent court against a marketing agency or means of information, in accordance with Article 15 or Article 54 of this Law? I know this wasn't the purpose of this provision, but it can be interpreted that way. That was your goal? Okay? I know he can, but was that the purpose of this provision, or was that supposed to be explained better? So, if I want to advertise the detergent, I'm being discriminated because a woman has been admitted, because every normal employer, or owner of a marketing agency, won't think I'm going to properly present him, I mean, that detergent. That's the way I see it. Maybe you don't agree with me. Item 3 – Public information means that through their programmes they develop awareness of gender-based equality, as well as of taking appropriate measures to change social and cultural patterns, customs and any other practice, which conditions stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination based on the idea of subordination, i.e. the authority of a particular sex. This provision is well imagined, but there is no mechanism of control to predict such obligations. This law, of course, does not provide for a body that will take care of its respect, so it can be assumed that the media will only willingly comply with this law. Is there another mechanism, or will it volunteer? So he can, and he doesn't have to. In this law, anything can and doesn't have to. What is a major failure by the legislator is the lack of mechanisms to protect gender equality at all levels, starting with local self-government, concluded with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which could be interpreted by dishonesty or, at best, the state's lack of interest in the real problem. The government itself acknowledges the problem, by establishing a Gender Equality Council, and advocates, but seems only declarative, as it stands to explain the reasons for the law being passed, to create a responsible normative framework. I think you'll agree, if nothing else, at least the female part of the Assembly, that this law and the area to which the law applies deserve a much more serious approach. To repeat, this is the fourth time that this bill on gender equality is in the process, still equally incomplete and largely inadequate for an anti-discrimination law, which is actually supposed to be the "top" law. My suggestion is to pull him out of the procedure, be there for the fifth time in front of us if you have to, but it would be better not to correct this one, rather than to write a new one, some that would apply, because for a law like this, SNS MPs don't want to, but they can't vote, because the law is bad as long as it says they can, and they don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30134	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and after her, Jadranka Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the presentation of the MPs of the Bill on Gender Equality, I come to the conclusion that we should ask ourselves some questions. Do some people who represent MPs here, those other half of the MPs, really know nothing, like they don't live in Serbia? There have been several political reports here that remind us of the parliamentary referendums of party bosses. Very few have touched the essential problems that arise in this law. The fundamental observation is – the inapplicability of this law in Serbia, due to general circumstances that are incompatible with the norms that the law provides. That is why we believe that the law will not have real application in practice. Why do I say that? Because of Serbian citizens who, unfortunately, will regret this TV broadcast, will be able to watch only at some bad time of the night, who should hear that the SRS advocates resolving this gender equality problem and wants to contribute to its objections and criticisms that this law can be applied in practice, not to remain a dead letter on paper, or to be passed several times, as some laws in this assembly are passed. There is also a question for the minister, Mr Ljajic, but he is not there, so someone else can answer me. How will the law apply when, in the fourth section of the reasoning, relating to the provision of financial resources, it states that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget? This law does not offer safety, especially today, in times of economic crisis, neither women nor men. Women in Serbia today account for 51.4% of the general population, while men are less represented in gender. I'm afraid this bill of gender equality doesn't come back to them as a boomerang, as an emancipation, like many of the women she's returned to. As a psychiatrist, I've listened to a lot of sad stories of women who are successful, who are capable, who have managed everything in their lives, completed college, got a nice job, and then turned 40 and realized that they don't have a family, that they don't have children, that they don't have an environment to live with and that they don't have, after all, no partners. That's why I think this law can come back as a boomerang. That's what Mrs. Donka said about hiring men on certain jobs, like in health care, in social security, in education, where there are many more women and many fewer men. In the light of the law, you wrote that the law on gender equality belongs to a group of anti-discrimination laws and that it regulates closer to the Constitution guaranteed the right to gender equality. The law, first of all, left out one small population, and these are men, I can say, very discriminated against. That is what I was talking about in a separate opinion – what is true and what we must not forget. We bring some human laws here, but there are laws of nature that are above all of us. This is what we must respect and not mock nature. I'll only list some members who clearly discriminate against the male sex. This is Article 29, which refers to domestic violence, point 2(2): "Dicrimination is not considered special measures and programmes designed to address women victims of violence, in order to prevent violence. The victims of violence are mostly women and children, but they can also be men, so there should be no discrimination, not before domestic violence, as one of the forms of crime and deviance, regulated by the legal norms that exist in Serbia's criminal and breaking legislation, Article 194. The penal law of the Republic of Serbia, then Article 2. The Law on Violations, Art. Six and twelve. The Law on Public Order and, at the end of 2005, by adopting the Family Law, which established a system of family legal norms, so that domestic violence is explicitly prohibited, and family members are explicitly recognised the right to protection against domestic violence. I wouldn't bother you again in these late hours with the health problems that exist, but these problems may be much bigger than the problems of this current flu. It's a high rate of morbidity and mortality in men and a high rate of dying, both men and women, especially men in the most productive years of life. In order for gender equality to exist in practice, not only on paper, it must exist in all areas of life, and in particular there must be no discrimination in the field of health care. In Article 25, which refers to working time, the institution of social and health care, the male sex is discriminated against: "The institutions of social health care and other institutions dealing with the protection of women and children are obliged to organise work and schedules of working time adapt to the needs of users". This bill, in the manner in which you wrote it, with the non-compliance of the provisions, the non-adjustment of terms and concepts set out in this law, remains unclear and remains unclear what all the terms and concepts used in this law mean. What's already said in this room, it's unacceptable for the SRS, too, is that this law can be the subject of different interpretations, and thus the subject of abuse and manipulation, which is the norms that regulate human rights, which are inaccurate, with unclearly established standards. For example, Article 14, which refers to equal availability of positions, says: "The public authorities' organisations should try." Then, Article 21, which relates to collective bargaining, says, "The trade unions and employers' associations should try." Article 32, the equal representation of sexes, says: "The authorised proponent is required to continue". So these are all the recommendations, or declarations, and they don't have legal norms. This must not be a practice in any field of legal science, especially in the practice of human rights. Now I'd like to say something about mechanisms implementing the Law on Gender Equality. In addition to these government mechanisms, discussed at the outset by Mr. Minister, there is also a parliamentary mechanism for implementing gender equality, which is the Committee on Gender Equality. It is unacceptable not to mention in this law the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the Committee on Gender Equality, established to promote, promote and ensure equal participation of women and men in all areas of public and political life. It is unacceptable for the Government's Gender Equality Mechanism, whose objectives are to improve gender equality, to have their representatives in the government's working body responsible for gender equality, this concerns Article 49(3) and that no member of the law provides for the possibility that the relevant assembly board shall have control over the application of the law. This is inadmissible, and it means that the Assembly only needs to pass this law. You have not given the Assembly the opportunity to have its place in practice, which belongs to it through the board of directors. In this way, you have completely excluded the parliamentary mechanism that needs to be monitored and controlled by law enforcement. So, not for the first time, you have left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the key institution of parliamentary democracy. I'd still like to talk about local self-government. The Directorate for Gender Equality only started activities in 2008 to hire local bodies in charge of gender equality. Local government, as the aspect of the government closest to citizens, is the most suitable ground for fighting discrimination and for propagating women and men. Article 39 refers to the obligations of the authorities of local self-government units. This member is quite superficial, in particular attitude 2, which reads: "Organs units of local self-government encourage and improve gender equality". What does "encourage" mean, and what does "improvement" mean if they're promoted? In Serbia, not one third of municipalities and cities have competent authorities of local self-government units dealing with gender equality issues. I believe that there should be a specific definition of the mechanisms of gender equality in the local environments. In the end, these are all reasons why the SRS does not want to support this law, and at the same time we do not want to challenge the meaning and importance of gender equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30136	The word has a folk letter from Jadranka Jovisic, and after it, a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30137	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, today we have before us a bill that, if adopted, will be in a group of anti-discrimination laws and will arrange closer to the Constitution, guaranteed the right to gender equality. It is important to stress that Serbia's EU accession process requires us to pass one of these laws. Many international acts have been adopted by both the UN and the Council of Europe, which deal with gender equality, affirm it, regulate and recommend it, both member states and countries that are yet to become one. So these countries can put some good legal solutions and institutes into their internal rights. It is also important to stress that this law is, in fact, standardising the principles of equal opportunities, in many areas, which are – employment, health and social protection, education, culture, sport, political and public life. There is also a guarantee of judicial protection if any of these principles of equality are violated. What must also be stressed is that gender equality is one of the UN's basic flows. This year ends 30 years after the Convention on the Prohibition of Any Kind of Discrimination Against Women was adopted. This convention was ratified by 90% of the member states, including our country. In 2007, the state of Serbia submitted an initial report to the UN Committee on this issue and, based on the conclusions made by the committee, it also concluded that our country needs one such law to pass as soon as possible. It is important to stress that supervision of the application of this law will be given to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. However, whether application will fully be achieved depends on all of us individually. Each of us should personally be aware of how important this issue is, not just because we are the last country in the region to pass such a law, but because the DS knows how important the issue of gender equality is for every society, and for this, our own. The DS will vote on this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30138	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After her, Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be really good if the reality in Serbia could be corrected by writing one law of 57 members, saying that they are all equal before the law and the Constitution and that they are all obliged to respect it. It would be all right if Serbia hadn't become a state in which laws are passed, but they are not respected and not applied. Public and private sectors are linked to unbreakable corruption at all levels, so most Serbian citizens have a very difficult life, and women are particularly in an uninvited position. The reality in Serbia looks like this. The process of transition, which has been going on for too long, has made women in Serbia the ones who will bear the greatest burden of this process. Statistics show that the Serbian woman is mostly discriminated against in the field of labour and employment. In mid-2008 there were more than 417 000 women on the National Employment Service's record, making up about 54% of the total number of unemployed. When we talk about this data, we need to consider that the National Employment Service is constantly deleting from the records of many people who are late to register for several days and for many other reasons, and unhindered to unemployed persons living in a joint household with the owner of property paid for by the Catastrian income, i.e. which deals with agricultural production, advises that there is no need to apply to the unemployment records, because it means nothing to them in the exercise of the right to health care, the rights to child care and other rights, so there is no need to make a fuss. That's why this data is incorrect, because the real number of unemployed women, unfortunately, and men are bigger than official data. In addition, a large number of unemployed were fired in the meantime. Furthermore, women before getting fired, longer waiting for a new job, less paid than men and more frequently exposed to mobbing. In the most difficult situation are women without education, but also women in the country who are engaged in agriculture. They're practically free labor. Nothing is easier for young girls, whose employment is most often conditioned by the attractive prospect of postponing motherhood. The employment law is openly violated, for many employers without any hesitation, without fear of sanctions for violations of the law, advertise their job by writing in an advertisement that a man under 40 is needed, or a young woman attractive to the outside. What do men who are 41 years old lose their jobs and have families and children to care about? What if young women and those not so young whose externality is not in line with someone's expert opinion on this very important element of starting a job, seems to be more important than a university degree, work experience and work ability? In the private sector, the largest number of women work in the so-called The gray zone. Here the number of women is higher than the number of men. Most often they do not have a signed labour contract, they are not paid contributions, social and health insurance. They're paid below the legal minimum, they don't have defined working hours. They work overtime, Saturdays and Sundays. Many employers openly demand that women sign a statement that she is not waiting for a child and will not do so for the next few years. Many women, because of their family’s difficult material position, agree to such blackmails, and no one thinks about seriously threatening the white plague as a nation. Families with only one child are growing up because the Serbian mother does not want to wait to receive a child's allowance to buy her baby diapers or milk, or a child who goes to school, backpack, shoes or jacket. The Serbian woman wants to preserve her Serbian family's dignity and many times accept jobs that are too difficult for her, often in inhuman terms, just to have some kind of pay. Also, the Serbian woman is ready to accept responsible and leading jobs, to stand at the head of the company, to form and run her company, and not to suffer family after all, because our jobs are generally considered female in our business. I would particularly like to refer to Article 24(3) of the Law on Gender Equality, which says that women's health care includes particularly health care in relation to family planning, during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood. Those women who are lucky not to work on black and at a time when they are waiting for a child have to go to sick leave, according to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, receive compensation and earnings of 65% of their earnings, as well as in cases of any other sick leave. This bill on gender equality, this provision, advocates greater women's rights during pregnancy, but then comes contrary to the applicable employment and unemployment insurance law. Under the former provisions of the law, a working woman's absence from work during pregnancy was paid at 100% of her earnings. A few years ago, this amount was reduced to 65%, as well as all other illnesses, and this in practice proved to be an anti-population measure, and the fact is that the birth rate is constantly dropping. In the end, I want to talk about what is written in the explanation of the Law on Gender Equality. Among other things, it says that the adoption of anti-discrimination laws is an important step in the process of European integration. I address, on behalf of the SRS, the issue of representatives of the ruling majority, above all, to the President of the Assembly, because it is responsible for the application of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, although it is not present at the moment – how will Serbia integrate into European flows when it has the Assembly, and the Assembly represents the most legislative body, which violates fundamental human rights in its work, which discriminates on Members of Parliament? I won't say it's gender-based discrimination, but it's discrimination, it's evident, and it's based on political conviction. I will remind you that it is in the provisions of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which applies to human and minority rights and freedoms, is prescribed that all are equal before the Constitution and that any discrimination is prohibited on any basis. In Section 3, among other things, it says – and based on political conviction. We are all witnessing that these provisions of the Constitution are infrequently broken in the work of the National Assembly, only when it comes to the MPs of the SRS. I will remind you once again that on August 31st of this year, the president of the National Assembly has been handed over my and my colleague Elena Christmas-Talijan's resignation to the National MP's office. Without any justification in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the Law and the Constitution, the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly has decided that there are no conditions for the termination of the term of office. I remind you that all the resignations submitted by the MPs of other political parties were accepted and, instead, the political parties filled the seats of other MPs with their lists. This right is the only one denied to the SRS. All stories of the current Serbian government's intentions to fight discrimination, by bringing anti-discrimination laws, fall into the water right in this home, the highest legislative body, because here, in addition to discrimination committed against two MPs, the entire political party, the SRS, is being discriminated against. I just want to point out that the SRS is a political party that does not overemphasise equality, because we have equality in itself. We don't have a separate forum of women or radical youth. Any adult can become a member of the SRS, and equality among people is something that is understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30140	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The time available to the Parliamentary Group is 25 minutes. She's the last one registered on the speaker list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30141	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will seem to someone that it will make no sense and purpose to speak now, since this will be in a delayed transmission, by some estimate, at three o'clock in the afternoon. However, as a responsible MP and as a member of the SRS, I would like to use this time to point out some other circumstances and failures in the proposed law and aspects of gender equality in Serbia, as well as in the members of the Council of Europe, whose member I am also, as a representative of the Serbian delegation, and for three years I have been involved in the work of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe. Some of the responsibilities, which are included in the law, were implemented in the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and for many of them, as a representative of the SRS, but also of the Serbian delegations, as they fully coincide with the views of our political party. This has already been discussed by our colleagues, as well as by my colleague Stevanovic, above all, Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, who, just like the previous president, Mrs Elena Christmas-Talian, has given exceptional importance in the affirmation of both gender rights, both women and men, and in the education of our colleagues and colleagues, why not say, all of us, in what it means and what the obligations of Serbia are, and what it is translated into this law. This matter began to be updated, as one mentioned, in the parliamentary life of Serbia in 2002, when the Committee on Gender Equality was formed. We, as a member of the UN, are in a renewed procedure, since you started Serbia's history after October 5th, so we had to renew our membership and apply for membership in international institutions whose founders, the signator of the UN Convention, which has, as Mrs Lakicevic knows very well, the legislative weight, refers to preventing any discrimination, and above all to discrimination against women, and this convention that Serbia signed in 2007, says that economic equality, equality of women in cultural and social life is imperative for Serbia, just as for all UN members. If I want to talk about this without everything coming down to the fact that this is the revolutionary law of your dossal authority, or of you who are now making a coalition, which you are suggesting to join unconditionally with European integration, I will say, for the sake of the public, whatever ratings there is after midnight, but, above all, because of you who are here, that gender equality and banning any form of discrimination is not something that applies only to countries that are members or predicate to be EU members. That is why I am incentivising a way to participate in the Committee's work in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because the law on gender equality also has our friendly Russian Federation, which is a member of the Council of Europe, and it is not, nor does it want to be an EU member. I can also go back to the period of 1985, when, for the first time, clear and precise, all gender rights were declared in a concise manner, first of all, the protection of women and girls, and that is the Nairobi Conference in 1985, later in the New York Conference, 1990, the Vienna Convention, the UN Convention on the Respect for Human Rights, and then a set of these conventions, declarations and resolutions adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. If this were to be the basis of some, first of all, NGOs, why not say, and to some political parties, we had an obvious example here earlier, but I would not, since I am an Orthodox Christian, without commenting on some trips, better said, the inexperience of a colleague who spoke an hour ago, that our tendency was to improve, first of all, as Mrs. Komic likes to point out, communication between men and women, it is proof that Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talijan, as president of the Committee, and Dr. Paunovic, wanted the activity of our fellow MPs, who, you can see, in the record of those who are members of the Committee on Equality, there are less gender represented. It is this communication between parliamentarians that leads us to some conclusions and to our consideration of the bill. We from the SRS are specifically against the Faculty's definition, especially when it comes to some percentages and quotas of participation in political life, in executive power, in international organisations. That is why we asked our amendments to make it mandatory, because we believe that this is the only way that anyone in power commits to respect these rules and that the less represented sex is currently women in Serbia, as well as in many countries in the world, thus being ensured in the process of implementation and these democratic rights. On the other hand, we need to look at the key problem in Serbia today for both women and men. This is also the next topic, that is, the next law we are going to talk about – about peaceful resolution of so-called peace. labour disputes. However, the point is that the economic aspect is a key point on which we can see whether someone is discriminated against or not. That this is true also says the last Council of Europe resolution, which we had on the agenda at the summer, June session, which reads: "Fighting discrimination against women in employment and in the workplace". Why did they, looking at the situation in 47 members of the Council of Europe, point out that these are women? Based on the exact data, and this data suggests that exactly the process of globalisation, as stated in this resolution, has made women come into such an uninvited position. As a party that is extremely anti-globalistic, we are just pointing out that the process of globalisation and everything that has led us to have so-called now. The global economic crisis has made, despite women's struggles, by their education, above all, by participating in the family, as bearer and pillar of the family, in the process of giving birth, raising children and promoting those traditional values, regardless of which culture and religion they belong, that women are the most injured in the process of globalisation, and that America and its Western allies are also suffering. Now, if you look at the difference between women and men, this is where the profit data is given for the same job, you'll see that this difference in developed European countries is going on at least 15, it's an official report and this adopted act, and somewhere between 25% and 35%. In Serbia, it can be 100%, because it is a large percentage of women's unemployment. Why are we in such a situation? Because women, first of all, those with primary and secondary education, are the most affected in the process, so-called. transitions, robbery privatisations and destruction of the Serbian economy, in service activities, catering, tourism, textile industry. What textile factory does it do now? If I tell you that Diork in Kragujevac has been completely eliminated, that this factory no longer exists, as well as "22 December", that approximately 70-80% of the employees there were women, then you see how many they were affected, because they can't now, nor could they have been in the requalification process to find their jobs. In this report and in this resolution, Serbia is not mentioned as a country where women's rights are being discriminated against in the worst possible way, so we come back to the Serbian Radicals' thesis that we should look at it equally. He told you our authorised representative, counterpart Dragan Stevanovic, that we are not by percentage, nor by the participation of women in parliamentary life, a country that is on one of the last scales. Of course, it can always be better, but we Serbian radicals initially supported those provisions of the Law on Local Elections, when it comes to local self-government elections. I should remind you, at that time, Mrs Comic was Vice-President of the Assembly, in this meeting Professor Vojislav Seselj voted, or the MP's group supported, on his proposal, the amendment by counterpart Lejla Ruždić to find one, on the condition that one, among the four candidates on the committee list, the representative of the weaker sex, the less represented sex would be found. You can see that it worked. Why? Although from the very beginning we affirm and encourage young women and girls in the middle and in the late years to implement and actively participate in political life, above all, our political parties, this has given effect, especially because the later local elections, in two tours, led to the fact that in all units of local self-government we now have the obligation to represent at least 30% of women. We have such municipal committees, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Radeta, in Rakovica and Braničen County, and in Rasinski especially, where, even, over 50% of the representatives in those local parliaments make up representatives, conditionally speaking, of a less represented gender, so they are the majority there. We did not do this because quotas were prescribed, but because we motivated these women who are socially endangered, who see where the state of Serbia goes, every woman, every mother, every young girl who is a student, every one who is at the beginning of their education and who is thinking about their emancipation, about their life, see that everything else has been hollow and empty stories, that women have been promised a lot, that they will get whatever privileges they want in life, and the fact is that they have to fight for it, first of all, with their work and their goal, what they want in life. As a party that inherits the traditional Serbian values and values of all other peoples and national minorities, respecting and respecting our majority, Orthodox faith, but also other recognised and traditional religious communities in our country, we do our utmost to promote the values of Serbian people and all other citizens of Serbia through the activities of both men and women, regardless of their religious and national membership. So you can see, and in this context, that in each meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are representatives of national minorities among their MPs, regardless of whether they are women or men. In any case, it is important for the quality of political life and democratic development of our country at all. Why are all these branches of the economy so affected, so today, a colleague, I think Milica Vojić-Markovic, mentioned this is the exact information, in the field of health, in the area of education, why women are less paid. It's something this law can't deal with. These sanctions and fines that you have prescribed, we have asked the amendments to be more severe and rigorous, because for one employer, and if you accept our or the amendment of some other political parties not to be with those who have over 500 employees, but 50 or 100, I think that you have accepted 100, a fine of 10 to 100 thousand dinars is nothing. The awareness of the need to improve relations between men and women in Serbia has been given democratic postulates by coming to power, or because it is prescribed by the EU, either by Olli Rehn or Javier Solana, but because it is in the tradition of our people. Of course, as parliaments developed and democracy developed in other countries, so did we, just like men, come to play a role both in political life and in the cultural, scientific and educational sphere. I must remind you that Milica Stojadinovic, a Serbian woman back in 1850, was the first woman to publish her poetry book. Finally, the first woman among doctors was one of the prominent scientists in our country. That is why we made our contribution to the light day of the book on Milica Stojadinović, and a member of the editorial council, although in the dungeon of The Hague casamat, is our President, Vojislav Seselj. We are talking about the fact that in the 19th century, and especially in the early 20th century and in the last decades, women had the awareness of what Serbia should look like and made their contribution not only to the development of children, as a pillar of the family, as mothers, as housewives, but were ready to put themselves in the role of everything that is a social challenge. This law, in preparation for the debate in Parliament, was to serve some so-called NGOs. One of them protested outside the National Assembly yesterday. It was the one who blasphemed the bright traditions of our people and led those who did not want to defend Serbian national interests. So they need to serve as an introduction to creating a feminist brand in Serbia. It is not necessary and every young woman, including a girl, knows it in Serbia. We, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic, had a conversation 15 days ago at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about 20 years after the adoption of the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, organised by UNICEF, at the House of the National Assembly. At the chair's table, next to Parliament Speaker Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, there were five other girls from various Serbian cities. It was a set of circumstances, because they prepared to present on the subject, which is the role of Parliament in relation to children, child protection, Parliament's role in the process of improving children's rights in general, in particular, financial and their roles in the family. Of these children, or those girls and boys, who later reported, each said that they represent not only the future, as many politicians want to say, abuse, many of them, and their children, taking pictures of them in the paper, so whether the child went to first class, whether he was learning Russian, whether he was going to sing in front of the Medvedev, whether this second one was playing basketball, etc. It is a classic abuse of children for political purposes, and those children have opposed it and said that they want their rights to be equal and that, on the other hand, they expect responsibility from us. Such a responsibility is expected by women, who are in Serbia, again, as I say in all, unfortunately, the Member States of the Council of Europe, so if we move forward, and in those who are members of the Interparliamentary Union, which is the largest parliamentary organisation, the less represented sex. Where is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in all these processes? It's not enough to just write and declare some of the rights of the less represented sex and declare you're advocating equality. You've seen from Elena Christmas-Talian's presentation that I'm not repeating it now, that the Strategy doesn't mean anything by itself if it hasn't affected changing, first of all, in 2005, allegedly codified Criminal Code, so the Labour Act, the Family Financial Support Act with children, because there is a very important role for both parents. We are coming to this, and we have found that from the very beginning and concluded in the course of the debate, that the state has to allocate a lot more financial resources to promote all these rights that are written in the law. Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic noted well that we do not need financial resources to implement this law, you know that, but they are necessary for the implementation of the Strategy and for all these projects that we need to prevent everything that is written in this resolution of the Council of Europe. There are other aspects. This expression they used could also be put into this law, and that is, whether it applies to men and women, so-called "siling voice", or "glass ceiling". It leads to the fact that a man or woman, in the largest number of cases in Serbia, women, when the situation comes to legal frameworks, here, by this law, you say – must be done by an employer, or by the Labour Act – must be respected, so all legal norms are allegedly respected, it has a certain qualification, has a certain expertise or a passed state exam, everything required of it, but because of that glass ceiling, as they have called it, cannot progress further. She sees there's a way up there for all of it, but, simply, someone's stopping her. What's somebody doing that for? Well, because the state, or executive authority, or body that needs to do so, is not sanctioning it. You know what this is about? Because of the prejudices that exist, you know that. Whether it is men or women, when it comes to a private employer, these prejudices are also expressed. We have seen, and these are the people that the government has determined to engage in the process of creating a gender equality strategy, that they have found that in the private sector, we have also mentioned this in the course of the debate, the discrimination of women based on classical sex, especially if they are intended to be mothers or, if they are already mothers, according to pregnant women, etc. The obvious example for this is Miroslav Miskovic. In all the stores of this "Maxia", or already in Delta City, or wherever it holds something, and holds a monopoly in all of Serbia, each of these women will tell you, if she has the courage to tell you, because you are a representative of the authorities, but I don't believe, that they too speak to us, colleagues Radeti and to me, to everyone they know, that they are also discriminated against and that they have less profits than any other colleagues, that they are not respected working time, and single mothers in Serbia, Mrs. Lakicevic, are completely disproved at the workplace, no matter where they are. There are many examples both in the state administration and in the financial sector, first of all, in banks that operate on these more favourable conditions, such as, the parties, where neither the working time nor the work hours are respected, nor what obligations they have towards their children, nor how these children will spend this extended vacation, nor how they will be educated without participation in their education, first of all, in their raising and raising. These are all the problems you face, and this law itself cannot affect these solutions. So you would do well to accept, as the beginning of a clear will, that you want to fight for gender equality, the amendment of Serbian radicals to this obligation of active participation in public life, in all that you have declared to certain members of the law, we will talk about it in detail, but, above all, to show the will, if you are ready for it, and I don't think that there is any chance that, through the improvement of the financial and social situation, you will make the position of women and men in Serbia much better. We have been clearly saying, here, for nine years now that you have been in power, that the sunflower of the Serbian economy and economy has led to all of this trouble and the inability to let everyone, which is the Constitution guaranteeed the right, achieve equality, the right to work and the right to health care in the fullest sense of the word. The examples we've drawn from just some of the health care segments are on the second level. If we were to start talking about how many rights both men and women are discriminated against in primary health care, then that story would take us much further. Therefore, do not go back to the EU directives, because Serbia will know when and the question is whether it will ever enter that organisation, which in itself enters the process of decomposition. The best way to get back to this release from Nairobi in 1985 is to clearly define all rights, as well as the UN Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-10-0.u30142	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search. I thank fellow Members of the People's Parliament, employees of the National Assembly and the RTS team, who is with us all together for the 14th working hour here. We continue tomorrow, November 11, 2009, at 10 o'clock, in the principle of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, which is sufficient for them to work according to the business provisions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Milan Lapčević and Milica Radovic. I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, called for the meeting to be attended by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Radmila Bukumiric-Katic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS TO THE PEACE SOLVEMENT OF WORK CONSTRUCTIONS (principles) You have received the draft law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and MEPPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so by now, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Milisav Petronijević MP group SPS-JS; MP Jovan Palalic Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Jovan Nesovic MP group G17 Plus; MP Vlatko Ratkovic MEP Group ZES and MP Zoran Antic Parliament group Advanced Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Proposer Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, want a word? Yeah. )
