ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29672	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to accurately determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are eighty... Please, we had a signal that there was a quorum at one point. I'm asking you to repeat the application. We're establishing a quorum again, please. I find that by applying the electronic system, more than 84 MPs are present in the hall, at this point in 87, and there are working conditions. Would one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups like to request an explanation or notice in accordance with Rule 235 of our Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29673	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary question I am asking is probably addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, as well as to the Government. Hungary's police received information on the 16 Kosovo Albanian group's tragedy on 15 October, which drowned in the Tisa waters during the illegal crossing of the Serbian-Hungarian border. On that occasion, the Hungarian media reported that a Serbian citizen had asked for help, stating that he had crossed the line with the group on that tragic night, which had sunk, and that he had saved himself, with two children. In a statement by Tanjug, the chief of the Saturday police administration, Boro Mucalj, said the Hungarian side had informed him that during the illegal crossing of the border across the Tisa River, a boat with an unknown number of persons had been turned. According to the Eulexes, eight drowning victims have been identified in Tisa, and eight are still missing. It is known that so far there has been a lack of response from representatives of Serbia's state summit over this tragic event, we only have one statement for the municipality's prosecutor's media in Presevo since 30 October, shortly after the tragic event. In this letter of preventive nature, the presence of an illegal crossing of the border in certain border catastrian municipalities, in the Presevo municipality, is indicated both at the border with Macedonia and with Kosovo. However, the fact is that the people who drowned in Tisa, based on statements made to the public so far and publicly confirmed data, at least some of these persons had the travel documents of the Republic of Serbia, so that from Kosovo to Serbia, in Bujanovac, Presevo or Merdar, they could enter quite legally. This is now, however, past this letter by the public prosecutor, who is in advance receiving some responsibility for the area, on a completely different territory – that is Subotica or Kanjiža, and in the public reference is to Kikinda. Where did this illegal crossing take place? We don't have any information on what was actually going on here. If the boat went down, were these victims just persons who were interested in illegal entry into the countries of the European community, or could they have been killed by a boatman or someone else? It is time for both the public and this assembly to inform about what actually happened that night, because it was happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We can't keep our mouths shut. I mean, by leaving the moral side here, it is now the legal side, on which an urgent public statement should be made about what was actually happening that night, how it all happened and eventually tragically ended with a loss, according to it, probably 16 people who drowned that night. Still, I think it's the interior ministry's area, and if a public prosecutor comes forward from Presevo,... (President: Would you like to bring an end to the thought, please, it's been five minutes? )......................................................................................................... It's time for the Ministry of Justice to come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29674	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29675	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for the Minister of Health. We have been informed through public information funds that a government telephone session has been held, which has decided to obtain three million vaccines against H1N1 influenza following an emergency procedure. The question is why is it only now, by emergency procedure, that an emergency procedure rules out the tender, although it is worth over 15m euros? Why, when known, was the World Health Organization and all relevant and competent experts warned that the pandemic would take place in November, December, January or February next year? So, the question is, is that the real reason, that there is no tender, is that, even though it's been four or five months since it was possible to access the supply of the vaccine, is only now working? The next question is: who will be given the vaccine, whether through some domestic pharmaceutical industry, some domestic distributor, who will be the importer, under what conditions, at what cost? I repeat, it is a large sum of millions of euros. Finally, another question for the Minister of Health, including the Minister of Police: when will the business of the pharmaceutical industry, drug importers, drug distributors, when the whole public know that there are enormous abuses, that there is a huge crime? All these companies have, for God's sake, their "daughters" abroad, and then the drugs are, for God's sake, supplied abroad. This is a dirty crime, because it's profiting from accidents, people's diseases. Finally, Madam President, it seems to me that you should interrupt this session and urgently schedule a new session with one single item of the agenda – an epidemic and a way to fight it, not to stick our heads in the sand like that, so it doesn't happen in that people's house burns and the grandmother combs. These are all important topics, but this is a topic that has the elements of an emergency situation, where it has to react urgently. People are scared, new victims have already appeared, and there are new victims every day. Let's see what the expected epilogue is, how much people can be expected to get, how many fatalities, what the treatment is, when the vaccine is to be administered, what are the facts of the vaccine. The most competent epidemiologists should come here, and all the electronic media to take over that session of the National Assembly, not to get into one alarming and, God forbid, a tragic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29676	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29677	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia... Your Honor, I'm asking for an explanation from you first. Thirty days ago and a few days ago, I asked you for an explanation, since you spoke in the announcement of the fall session about the oversight role of the National Assembly in law enforcement. What did you do on the questions I asked? Now you tell me we're not wasting time, do you know what I mean? (President: You don't have to repeat, I know what you mean. Yesterday, the third emergency went to the government. So I'm not in charge of answering your question, but I'm in charge of forwarding it to the government and I did it yesterday. All right. Some ministers say they didn't get questions. I want to inform you and all citizens of Serbia that I have received answers from the Anti-Corruption Council (this is this advice that has been leading politics for four years and has done nothing, this is Verica Barac, they are now shutting down), from the Anti-Corruption Agency (they say they are starting from 1 January, now being settled, looking for rooms), from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest – like, something they will do. And I got it yesterday from Mr. Miljko Radisavljevic's special prosecutor. He got mixed up, he thinks that's what Dragan Gillas asked him to do. He told me, too, that you, respected citizens of Serbia, are not being conducted in any way. It's like someone was looking for that employment certificate. That's not what I asked, Mr. Prosecutor. That's what you're gonna do. So, from other state authorities, above all, the ministries in charge of what happened, I didn't get an answer, Madam President. That is how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was violated, because all these ministers and ministries are obliged to respond within 30 days. To take advantage of this, I support the question asked by Mr. Vladan Batic, or I ask for an answer. It's like he was reading a stenogram of what I said two days ago. I ask you again, Mr President, to make an appointment, according to the Rules of Procedure, and no one will object if the Rules of Procedure is broken, to have the Minister of Health and the entire ministry come to the Assembly, to hold a special or extraordinary session, I don't know what to call it, and to give real information to the citizens about this flu epidemic. You know, television shows that are showing up these days are really panicking with citizens. We have doctors who say you shouldn't take the vaccine, there are doctors who say you should. In fact, the real question is -- how could these four companies earn 520,000,000 euros, and now the state has no 12,000,000 euros, how much for vaccines? Since we see what neighbouring countries are doing, and we're looking at their public services, TVs, I think we're behind or we're not informed enough. You know, it's not enough to wash your hands. Now there's a mix-up with citizens whether they should receive vaccines or not. Actually, there's no vaccine. Last night, the director of "Torlaka" said they would start producing in December. What if those vaccines arrive when the pandemic passes, say, in February? One more question, Madam President, from the field of health. I ask this question, if for nothing else, then because I come from the hometown of Dr Dragisa Misovic. How far has the fire investigation arrived at Dr Dragisa Misovic Hospital? I want to remind you, like all citizens of Serbia, that, unfortunately, every day there are fires in Serbia, upstairs garages, unfortunately apartments, but hospitals very rarely worse. I think the public and citizens, especially in this flu epidemic, are interested in what happened and how far has the investigation of the fire at Dr Dragisa Misovic hospital arrived. Just to remind you and all the citizens, the television that was directly reporting from the scene of the fire, several times, by accident or intention, warned the citizens that the fire had not been reported from the hospital. What should we conclude about the ones we've been watching? That someone at the hospital wanted that hospital to burn down? Secondly, a classic explanation was given immediately in the case of fire – installation. It's just, someone's recalculated into this, burned down a floor that has new installations. Another information, each of us knows that he tried to help someone and found a bed for emergency intervention and surgery; most often there are no beds. That night, I say, fortunately, but also to think, in two hours 300 beds were found. That information raises certain suspicions among the citizens. I want the Home Office to come out as soon as possible with information on what happened. Is that connected to the arrests of these health center directors? To quote a little statement from the G17, since they're silent as bays here, all the directors who have been arrested are not from the G17, but from the Democratic Party list. Let me remind you, Madam President, and also the citizens of Serbia, there areoffers paid for by 12,000 dinars. Now remember, let the citizens compare the information that there's no money for vaccines, and there were 12,000 dinars for offers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29678	Gentlemen, your questions, your initiatives in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can absolutely implement in this assembly, you have every right to do so, so as to inform you that I will forward all your suggestions and questions to the relevant ministries, and we can use our business opportunities through the form of parliamentary issues regarding the current topic. National MP Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29679	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would take the opportunity, given that Mr Skundric, Mr. Pera, as the prime minister said Thursday, is here, and I would once again ask the government for an answer. What motivated the government when it made a decision to give consent to the investment of the capital of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, to decide on the acquisition of ordinary actions of the fifth emissions without public offering to increase the capital of "Informatics" AD Belgrade, which was taken by the Management Board of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" at a session on 15 September 2009? We discussed here on Friday, among other things, the ratification of the agreement between Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has granted our country a 270m-euro loan. The agreement was signed on July 13th, and on the last day of the four-month period here, practically at the last minute, we agreed to this agreement. It traveled 120 days from government to parliament. On September 15th, the Public Enterprise, which records a loss of 170,000,000 euros, took the decision at its board meeting without any rational explanation to buy private company actions to confirm the decision two days later. Seven days after confirming that decision, or giving consent, "Srbigas" moved into a mixed Russian-Serbian company owned by the Russian state. What reasons were so significant that the government approved this irrational business move that is a huge loser and which decides to buy private company shares? Mr. Skundric, has the "Information" actions been traded before? Is the ownership structure of "Informatics" changed in that trade? Have some, already deeply rooted, ownership relations changed in that trade? Has the government tried to protect those who in this trade have become only shareholders, minority shareholders of the company, through their intervention through "Srbigas"? What was the government's interest in something like this? It is mentioned, it is really funny, that the government has given this agreement because it wants to improve the "Serbigas" control and management system. When did "Serbiagas" decide to do that? It is not in the business plans of "Srbigas" for this year. It was never discussed in "Srbigas". How did "Informatics" become an ideal performer of these jobs? Are there any tenders in this country, any public proceedings? Was that what your ministry was wondering about? We're waiting for you at this agenda point to ask you where your assistant from last year, at which firm she works today? What law has this country broken? Who's responsible for something like that? We lost control of Jugorosgas because of the four million dollars and your assistant's sloppyness, not from your time, but from the time of the previous government, which today is employed by a company that has made it possible for him to do so. We invested three million in Informatics, and we didn't have three million to invest in Jugorosgas to share 20m euros in profits today. What are these interests, what forces prevent the government from answering this question clearly? Please, if you can't say it now or you're not supposed to say it right now, let the government answer us politely, let him say that this case doesn't want to talk, but don't let it all end like last Thursday when the prime minister asked you and said it – that's what Mr. Pera will do, because he just chaired the government that brought the solution. This has the least to do with "Serbiagas", it has to do with everything else, except "Serbiagas". The three million are compromising all other government efforts, and it has to be interrupted. I'm asking, Madam President, that you intervene and influence the government to let us know about all this. I am convinced that 90% of the MPs in this House do not support what happened, and none of the MPs had anything to do with this, except SPS MP Bajatovic, who is the director of "Srbigas", and he was not thrilled with this either, I know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29680	Thank you. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29681	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be addressed to the leadership of the RTS Public Service, more specifically, the Management Board, and its director, Mr Tijanic. Last week, the Governing Board of the institution decided to shut down correspondence, or Pristina Radio-Television studio based in Prokuplje, which has been in place since 1999, when NATO bombing was completed. The decision was also made to declare all 276 employees in the facility a technological surplus and to abandon RTS through social programmes. It would probably be no wonder if it weren't for an institution that reported, first of all, people living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and currently located in Prokuplje, Toplica, the border area which is situated on the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija, and also reports those people living in the area, but also a large part of the people who are displaced and currently resident in the area. I ask the question – what motivated the Management Board and the Director to make such a decision and what would happen to the people who have worked there for tens of years, founded that institution, worked dedicatedly all these years, and how will their status be further resolved? It is explained that these people have been getting paid for years without enough work and that some are employed in certain private media. On the other hand, it says Pristina's Radio Television as such will not be shut down, only all workers will be fired. Watch the logic – everyone will be fired, only formally Radio-Television Pristina will exist! Who's he gonna exist with? Who's going to report? Who's going to work in that studio? The government's conclusion is that it takes at least a hundred people to work in the correspondence, but you can't see who will work there if everyone is fired. Is it possible that rationalisation in Serbia's Radio-Television, which obviously has to come, as in all other sectors, must just start from that institution, which is probably of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia, as it reports those people who have stayed to live in those areas? If we deny them what belongs to them by law and by the Constitution, the possibility of public information, to know what's going on in their environment, how can we expect these people to stay where they're going to live? Is that another way to make people withdraw from their home hearth? You know, ten years ago, Serbia's radio-television of each region had so-called two-hour regional programmes. Today, these regional programmes have been shut down, so we have a chance to watch "Belgrade Chronicle" every night, a report on what's going on in Belgrade, which broke the pipe on Vračar, whether there is an open window of mail on the Sava Venice and whether the closure of traffic on the Pančeva Bridge is open. Tell me, what is the interest of one who lives in Vranja, Užica, Šapcu or in the White Palanca to follow information about what is happening in Belgrade? If public authorities allow Serbia's Radio-Television to collect subscription from all Serbian citizens and if all citizens of Serbia finance it, on what basis can some be denied for certain information they are interested in? The government has started firing at all levels, but by always moving from the smallest, thus rationalising the number of municipality employees, but not in the state administration, or in the Serbian government. The government has not tried to reduce the number of its portfolios and the number of employees, but is therefore reducing in the municipality's territory. Also, it reduces the number of people in correspondence, but not at RTS headquarters. I repeat the question – what will happen to these people and how will the citizens of Kosovo be reported in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29682	Thank you. Bozidar Delic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29683	I would like to say a few words about a "successful" privatisation, as I read in the media yesterday that about 400 privatisations have been cancelled in Serbia. This is about a small company, 299 minority shareholders from the Auto Traffic Company "Shumadi Strel" from Arangelovac. This company was privatised in 2003, April 8th. Buyer Mutavdzic Dragan, from Belgrade, shares cancellations on the day of entry into the company's possession and workers remain on the street. He once bought a successful company for just 10,680,000 dinars. The Arangelovac thus lost the carrier, no bus stop, and no car repair facilities. The new owner bought the company with a loan he took after he mortgaged the company he was buying. This is usually a speciality in Serbia, which has often been made possible by individual people in Serbia. This was made possible by counterfeits by the then CEO of the AD “Stupid Strel,” now in prison. The new owner immediately sold, without public bidding, equipment and means of business – 23 buses, two trucks, spare parts and equipment. He also sold the right to transport in regular passenger domestic and international traffic. The new owner also sold two and a half hectares of land and refurbishment facilities for 15,000,000 dinars. In the Rakovica municipality, where Mutavdzic Dragan's headquarters called "AMG Belgrade", there remained a tax debt of 25,000,000 dinars at the time. Arangelovac, a city of 48,000 people, has no bus stop today. People are waiting for buses on the street. The safety of citizens, especially school youth, is significantly compromised. I ask the question to the Government – when will 299 minority shareholders of the Auto Traffic Company "Shumadi Strel" be compensated? When will the court decision, number 897/05 of 3 March 2006, be respected on the remuneration of personal incomes and the integration of their employment for 2004 and the first half of 2005? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29684	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I am asking the Privatisation Agency – is it true that Morgan Stanley is not registered with the Business Registers Agency? If so, the question arises how could Morgan Stanley be a consulting firm in a business related to the sale of the tobacco industry and incasing ten million euros in 2003? The next question would I ask Interior Minister Ivica Dacic – why has the consultative mafia not been discovered so far? I think it's one of the biggest and most harmful mobs that have been harassing Serbia for the last nine years. They totally destroyed Serbia. The value of Serbian assets, i.e. enterprises that have been sold so far, has been estimated at over 30 billion euros. In all, Serbia, according to information, has included only 2,700,000 euros, or 10% of that value, and it is known that these consulting firms have done everything, i.e. advised how privatisation will be done. If you look at what companies they are, how many they are, then you'll realize that only twenty companies have done over 80% of this job, and that job is worth, believe it or not, four billion. Serbia has given these consulting companies four billion! Only Ces Mekon has over the past period taken 455,257,091 dinar. Do I need to remind you whose "Ces Mecon" is and who was there? Maybe that's why "super-Ivica" doesn't go against this mob. Mirko Cvetkovic was the director of the Privatisation Agency, and, at the same time, according to the court records, he was the Executive Director of Ces Mekona! Otherwise, it is interesting that "Ces Mekon", which was registered in the court register of the Trade Court in Belgrade under number 1-25679, came from the consulting company Mekon, founded in 1989 by Zvonimir Nikezic. This is important, because Zvonimir is the father of Dusan Nikezic, and Dusan is the assistant director of Mirko Cvetkovic's agency. Okay, guys, what does this look like? How long are you going to rob Serbia? Well, this is your Prime Minister! To be heard by Serbian citizens. You don't like being told that you're thieves, that you robbed Serbia? You robbed Serbia. I have information for these companies. This is just amazing, you took four billion from the citizens of Serbia to rob them. Let me ask you a question – how could it not occur to you to pay this kind of money for advice to start production, to do something about it? Well, you weren't even able to sell what generations before you got here, but you had to rob Serbian citizens too! This is why someone has to answer. At last, certain processes must be launched, because if you continue to remain in power, Serbia will literally be left with nothing, or a stone on a stone. That's why I'm asking the Home Office... Because I don't have time to show you, according to the contracts, the same people are just walking from work to work, and I was showing that individuals took two and a half thousand euros a day. (President: Would you like to finish your thought? It's hard to end up here without a public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29686	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending Members of the People's Parliaments Konstantin Arsenović, Nikola Lazic, Milos Radulovic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives ofproposals Prof. Dr. Petar Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, called for the members of Dusan Mrakić and Radivoje Milanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mines and Energy, as well as Tatjana Jovanovic, Chief of Staff, Aleksandra Babić, adviser to the Oil and Gas Sector, Zlatiborka Andrejić, Adviser to the Secretariat and Milica Zorić, adviser to the Mines and Geology Sector of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29687	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 104, respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, Madam President, I suggest you apply the position of Article 2 of the 98th and set a break in the work of the National Assembly session to avoid a major mistake that parliament can make because of a prank that is inevitable at this point in the agenda that we are now beginning the debate. Namely, I'll tell you what this is about: we have before us a bill on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11. The Expropriation Act in this country is still a valid law, and it has defined expropriation and cases in which expropriation is carried out in a very precise way by Article 8. The expropriation, Madam President, is impossible if the right is transferred to an enterprise that is not socially owned, or owned by the Republic of Serbia. With this bill, we transfer, apply the expropriation to "Yugorosgas", a company owned by a majority of the Russian state. It's unsustainable. Article 70. The Expropriation Act, which is the subject of the Legislative Committee, which has not dealt with at all, has been defined in which cases administrative transposition can be carried out. It is possible only if it is transferred from one state-owned enterprise, i.e. social enterprise, to another state-owned or social enterprise. It is not possible to transfer to companies owned by another state. "Yugorosgas", and that Mr. Skundric can confirm, we have evidence of this, is not a company owned by the Republic of Serbia. Jugorosgas is a mixed company in which the state of Serbia is represented with 25% of its ownership. We used to have 50%, but – this is no longer negligence and oversight, but an obvious intention – two years ago the Republic did not react and protect that 25%, so we lost that property. It's impossible to have a discussion right now. This is a topic for the Legislative Committee. We have two opposing laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29688	Thank you. Your allegations are known to the promoter and that will be the reason for the debate, for the debate. No injuries to the Rules of Procedure, actually, there's no problem in holding a session. We're continuing our work. Mr. Jovanovic is re-advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29689	Madam President, I am not pleased with your answer. Let the congregation declare it. It is totally unacceptable that during the debate we are arbitration which law will be respected. The congregation must obey the laws. We can't argue with the Minister whether one law or another will apply. The law on expropriation does not allow parliament to make this decision at all. We can discuss the Expropriation Act first, so we can change it, and we can say that there are art. 8 and 8a, which allow the transfer of ownership to a private company. It's impossible this way. If necessary, here we will seek support from MPs, 80 MPs and urgently launch an initiative before the Constitutional Court. It is impossible for parliament to hold a debate on what law will be applied. Let the Legislative Committee meet, because it's obvious. If this is the country's interest, let's do it in every normal society – change the law, adapt it to the situation, and then make a decision after that. This is not in the interest of Serbia or Russian partners. It just increases our indifference. Nobody understands that anymore. It's sloppyness that can cost a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29690	Your initiatives are quite clear, regular, with regard to the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and I consider this to be at this stage of the topic for this session. We have already entered the procedure, therefore, MPs will plead taking into account your allegations as well. We move on to a joint principle search of the 17-20th agenda – THE PROPOSATION OF EXPRIATION OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF MG-11 GUESTURAL GUESTURAL GUESTURAL GUESTURAL GUESTURAL AND TECHNICAL AUTHORITY TRANSPORT IN THE COMMUNITY OF JUGOSLECTROVREDE IMPLEMENTAL DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda under points 17, 18, 19 and 20, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament's DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament's Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; The sending group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so by now, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic (PUPS), MP Djordje Milicevic (Salanica Group of SPS), MP Slobodan Maras (Salanica Group of LDP), MP Stefan Zankov (Slanica Group of NS), MP Milan Lapcevic (Slanička Group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica), MP Sreto Peric (Slanica Group of SRS). According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity for the construction of the Master's gas pipeline SG-11, the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas pipelines, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining, the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity. Does the representative of Professor Petar Skundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Yeah. Before that, Mr. Marash advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29691	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I must point to a violation of Article 45, and I therefore request that Article 98, paragraph 2, or Section 3 be applied. Madam President, neither the Legislative Committee nor the Industry Committee discussed this. Here we have the chairman of the Finance Committee who, when it comes to this law, said - don't bring this law into the Assembly, because we haven't discussed the Expropriation Act before. So today, Madam President, this is what we're saying in our best interest. I believe that it will be easier for Mr Skundric too to wait for the Legislative Committee to be declared, to also be discussed on the Committee on Industry. We can't pass one law now, Lex specialis, which is contrary to the existing law. I know you're making sure that it's in accordance with the law, that it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, take a break to conduct consultations, that the committees responsible... So, the Legislative Committee must determine whether this law that is before us is contrary to the law that already exists or whether it exists with the Constitution. We have here in our explanation a call for certain members of the Constitution, but we also want the Legislative Committee to come forward. You're giving us one law that's contrary to the law that already exists. Please take a break and consult.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29692	Thank you. Since the president and MPs have not scheduled a session of the Legislative Committee, this is when I schedule it for 11:15 p.m. and set a break until 12.00 p.m. Otherwise, the Finance Committee accepted the bill, yes, and informed the Parliament in writing, or me. We received a report from the Finance Committee, which concluded that it proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a master gas pipeline of MG-11, in principle. It was signed by Zoran Krasic. I'll do it again later, when we're on the air, because it's not right. Mr. Krassic, there's no replica. [[Zoran Krasic, from place: Looking for replica]] I don't think I offended you by informing you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session after the break in which the President of the National Assembly has scheduled a session of the Legislative Committee. Does Prime Minister Petar Skundric, the Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Yes, go ahead. Minister, you'll just wait a second. In accordance with Article 27, I give my word to the President of the Legislative Committee. Article 27 implies the obligation of the chair to take account of the consistency of working bodies and of the provision of all information necessary for the work of the Members of Parliament. It's the only member I can let Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic get his word on, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29694	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am obliged to inform you that the session of the Committee scheduled by the President of the National Assembly has not been held for the reason that the quorum for full-time work and decision-making has not been provided. Less than 11 members attended the session. I would remind you that Committee member Biljana Hasanovic-Korać is on home treatment and recovery due to injuries sustained in the robbery, that Mr. Konstantin Samofalov is on the official path, Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic, who attends the Committee sessions, is also on the official road, so there were no conditions for full-time work and decision-making. As a national MP, I am obliged to make my views known regarding the remarks made by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, a fellow MP. Article 8. The Expropriation Act, you will allow me to quote this member, says: "Exparation can be done for the needs of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade, municipalities, public funds, public enterprises, companies founded by public enterprises, as well as for business companies with majority state capital founded by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, the city, the City of Belgrade, the municipality, if the law is not regulated differently. “ Mr Jovanovic only partially quoted this member when he advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and when he expressed his position. The Expropriation Act allows the law, by some other law, to expropriate certain users for certain purposes. Also, Article 2 of the cited law states that the public interest in the expropriation of immovableity is determined by law or by the government's decision in accordance with this law. For these reasons, I believe that the proposal for a law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia to build a master gas pipeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29695	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29696	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was mentioned by MP Rajkovic. I don't think we can handle this kind of discussion. Before the Minister, at the opening of the agenda, representatives of the committee, who inform us of the position of the board, and MPs who have taken an opinion at the committee's session, shall have the right to say so. We interrupted the session to hold a session of the Legislative Committee, which has not been held, and the president can only inform us that it has not been held. Instead of short, simple information that the Assembly is not capable or that the ruling majority is unable to comply with the law and in accordance with the usual procedure, it has begun to teach us lessons here. He's not the only member of the law, Mr. Rajkovic. There is an article 70, which says very precisely what are the cases to which some other law can apply, but the one you mention is not. It's true that another law can fix it, and that possibility has remained because of situations like this, but you haven't prepared the bill properly, it's contrary to the Expropriation Act. Article 70 says in which cases it is possible to expropriate. Serbia is not the majority owner of Jugorosgas, thanks to the functioning of people who were obliged to protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia, while protecting the interests of another country, Russia. We are now applying the Expropriation Act against the provisions of the law itself. The general interest is determined, and it is not disputed, but it can only be realised in accordance with the law. You cannot transfer this right to a company where it is not the majority property of the Republic of Serbia. That's impossible. We can discuss this... (President: I thank you, two minutes have passed. )......................................................................................................... But not here, like this. It's clear in which direction it's going, but if this is a significant job, why would you compromise yourself in such a way, why is it now...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29697	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, it's been two minutes. First of all, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, given that I had scheduled a session of the Legislative Committee on a proposal from your parliamentary group, had an obligation to perform and he reported on the reasons for not holding the session. Allow me, honourable MPs, before we continue to work, to inform you that part of today's session will follow from our National Assembly gallery students and students from the municipality of Kljaževec, and that: Darko Živković, Aca Tričković, Nenad Ilijic, Aleksandar Miladinović, Ivan Živanovic, Stefan Milovanovic, Katarina Tričković, Ivana Vidinović, Djordjevic Marko, Marko Prvulović, Nikola Živojinović and Miodrag Jovanovic. Let's say hello. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29698	You allow the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. The public might think that what Mr. Ratkovic said was the official position of the Legislative Committee and this assembly, so before you continue the session and act as if you did not interrupt it to get the position of the Legislative Committee. If we couldn't continue the session an hour and a half ago without the opinion of the Legislative Committee, we can't now. We have no decision of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Ratkovic can express his wishes, his personal opinions. That doesn't make any sense. It's a very serious matter. I have a different approach than Mr. Jovanovic, but I am also motivated by the desire not to violate the law. I don't think this law would protect Russia's interests. We would protect Serbia's interests, but was it a problem to get it into the law? Should we now break the laws of the Republic of Serbia? It was very easy to change the provisions of the law. You've changed them recently, so you haven't predicted this situation, and this is why you've changed. You're so written in government that you're handing us bill proposals. Don't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, interrupt this session, make this government serious, finally, that it comes before us with relevant bill proposals. Otherwise, we are really prepared to sign immediately and to stop the constitutional court's procedure now, because it is evident that you are not protecting the interests of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29699	Mr. Nikolic, you know the Rules of Procedure well, and you know it wasn't necessary, but it was instructed to schedule a session. We can work without the Committee's attitude. If you wanted the session to take place, all parliamentary groups could have influenced the members of the Legislative Committee, not only the parliamentary majority, but also the opposition, to take part in the work and the session would have quorum. One member of the Legislative Committee of the parliamentary majority is out of the country. Another colleague of ours, as you know, is hurt and can't physically be here. We can't make up a quorum now. It won't keep us working today and it won't stop us from working. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29700	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you remember, I am the chairman of the Finance Committee, so I could help you clarify this situation, as you will hardly clarify it with Ratkovic. Here's the thing. This year, the National Assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Expropriation Act and at the 18th session of the Committee on Finance, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, that was 11 February 2009, within the 5... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, so I can follow you, just tell me which member was injured after you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) Let him be a member of the 27th. You don't want to get angry, because this is a contribution to clarifying this situation, so it doesn't get guessed what it's all about. I don't think it's a problem, given that I have the best information available, and I can help Mr. Skundric see how some punks tricked him. If you'll excuse me, I'll move on. So, in the context of the debate in the principle of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Expropriation Act, since other members of the Committee did not want to get involved in the debate, I was involved in the debate and the Government's representative, Mrs Mirjana Karadzic, asked what would be the new criterion when determining the users of the expropriation, whether they would be legal person status or legal form of that legal person. Not to read this stenogram where she's trying to avoid an answer, but I'm asking her a specific question about what to do in a situation where 51% is owned by someone from Serbia. She categorically says, "It is impossible then to expropriate, but it will have to be made a special economic entity in state property, which will be a user of expropriation." That? It's okay. It's okay. Thank you, goodbye. You've passed the law and now you're inserting it as a user of expropriation to someone who doesn't meet the conditions of the Expropriation Act. Now we are spinning around and rightly asking a question – how could the Legislative Committee go?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29701	Time. I don't doubt your well-meaning, but it's simply not temporary. Unless, in accordance with Article 141, the final position, the committees responsible do not deliver reports, i.e. the Government, an opinion on the draft law, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. In line with that, we continue the work. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29702	Madam President, I answered the line, Mr Nikolic mentioned me. I absolutely agree with him and what he said. When I mentioned working for the interests of another state, I didn't specifically mean the realisation of this law. I pointed out the damage suffered by the Republic of Serbia due to the obvious intention of a member of the Board of Directors of the NIS, who must respect the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest. He did not act in line with the Management Board's recommendations, allowing Serbia to lose 25% of its ownership of the joint company Jugorosgas, to move those 25% to the Russian side. That's why we have a problem here now. The man sat as an assistant minister a year ago at the Energy Committee in the Serbian Parliament, when we also discussed this. Today he sits and receives a salary in "Yugorosgas". Only in this sense was I talking about the fact that he was protecting the interests of another country, not the Republic of Serbia. By the way, it's a disaster that I have such an important job... The assembly has reached an agreement, ratified it, and it has to be applied, but why do we apply it in a way that will make us ashamed, first of all, and not in front of anyone, but in front of whoever our partner is. As we were ashamed when we confronted him at the Board of Directors of the NIS, so the company that won 30-40 million at the end of that company came up with a report that speaks of him as a company that has so much loss, so now we're waiting for the auditor's report. The law is clear. The Serbian Radical Party MP, chairman of the Finance Committee, told you what the government's representatives were like when the law was discussed. It's impossible to do what Mr. Ratkovic is now talking about. And you put him in a spotless situation. This session has 57 agenda points. We began it by agreeing on what days we will be working on plenary sessions, which will be held for days by congregation committees. I run the Environment Committee and we can't hold a normal session because we work Monday through Friday, there are 57 agenda points and no one can plan anything. This is not just a simple point that we can go over by saying – it doesn't matter, it can be done without the board's opinion. It can be in some common situations. This isn't common. This was a topic for the Legislative Secretariat, which has not done its job; we now do not have a Legislative Committee. We shall vote something, and what are the consequences of all this? You won't be able to do that job. As soon as an appeal is filed to the Constitutional Court, your partner will say – we are waiting for the Constitutional Court's position. If we go over it and let it work, tomorrow someone will complain, and we'll be in trouble again, we'll have to cover the damage. This is not a serious and responsible relationship with a very important job, and we need to think about it. It's got to change the Expropriation Act, and then, according to that, do everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29703	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29704	Articles 166, 77, 78, 79 and 27 have been violated. Cedomir Jovanovic mentioned that part of Article 166 you quoted, which is that unless the committees deliver reports, the bill can be considered at the plenary session. This is one situation that represents some special situation; when everything is normal, when there is no doubt, then there is no need to ask for any reason for the session to be postponed. But three opposition parliamentary groups have just told you that they will appeal to the Constitutional Court. It is a dilemma that only the Legislative Committee can consider and resolve at that session, to see who is right, then, to assess the legality of the proposal. Do you really think you can do this by force? If we were to keep this from the opposition now, then the Rules of Procedure could only have one member, which is – the Government is also passing laws, and we can all go to the famous congregation restaurant. If there are some rules, there are rules to be observed, especially if there is a situation that is suspicious. At that time, especially those rules are important. What's the idea of the rules being arbitrarily applied, so if something's not clear and if it's wrong, then we won't even apply them, so somebody else is going to do it somewhere else? No one's gonna solve this anywhere but us. We have a constitutional court initiative today and we are waiting for this to be adopted. And so did the other parliamentary groups. We don't understand why such a rush, and we're especially waiting for that record Monday when we're going to have 24 agendas in a united search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29705	Thank you. My answer would be the same as before. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29706	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, number one, you have violated Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, Madam President, when you warned Cedomir Jovanovic that two minutes had passed, and he contacted Mr Ratkovic on the line, which lasts three minutes. Madam President, we have some things to discuss here. When it comes to what the government sent us, I assume this highway pipeline is based on some plan. The congregation didn't see it, we didn't get it. What can we discuss? The second thing, in an explanation, Madam President, I must draw your attention, is a lie, says – according to the above-mentioned international agreement, the Jugorosgas Action Society of Belgrade was founded, by Gazprom and JP NIS, whose legal successor today is "Srbigas" Novi Sad, with 25% ownership. It's not true that that's how it was founded. The joint venture, Jugorosgas, was founded with 50% "Gasproma" ownership and 50% Serbian side ownership. It's a lie that the government has given us in an explanation. The fact that in 2005, 2006, in 2007, someone, in someone's interest, and today we will present in whose interest and who, allowed 25% of the ownership from the Serbian side to be transferred to the property of a company in Vienna that is in fact controlled by Gazprom, that is the problem. Why direct such untruths to the congregation? All that my predecessors said really stands, and we're going to react promptly if this goes away. What's the rush? I understand that the timelines are pressing on us, but that should have been taken care of before. Change the Expropriation Act first and do not allow the Assembly to violate the laws that exist in this country if the Government is prepared for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29707	The contents of everything you have said indicate that it is necessary to enter into the debate and, beyond that, to assess the validity of this proposed law. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 138, when it comes to the bill, and I warn you that we are in a very difficult situation. Our motives... I don't think we should talk about our motives at all, we care about working with partners from Russia, and there's absolutely no dilemma on this issue, but that co-operation has to be legal. First of all, the congregation must make sure that it does not violate the Constitution and that it does not violate the laws. Do you have a specific question to the government's representative whether in the event of an expropriation this new company will be able to expropriate because it is the majority owner of the ino-partner? It's said there's no possibility, because that's the law. Now the government is proposing a law that provides for it. It's a situation that I suppose in your practice (I mean professional commitment) often happens, but it defines itself as a sick condition. When the same person has two different attitudes, it's a sick condition. It's obvious that that's the kind of disease that's involved here, too. I don't know if there's a collective disease, though, but when it comes to our government, it's obvious there's a problem. Why do you have to put the congregation in a position to make sure that it's sick, to accept it, and to pretend to be in that story about the emperor's new suit? I don't think there's any reason. Please consult, find a way to get out of this as quickly as possible and get it over with, because that's how you put a Russian partner in a bad situation. Why go into something that's illegal?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29709	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Please don't throw Mr. Secretary away. Once again, all you're saying is an argument that in the debate and in the voting day, the Assembly definitely has its position. At this stage in which the law is now in place, and we as the Assembly, our only business opportunity is to go into debate and to take into account all the arguments that I really appreciate, I fully respect... It's your right and obligation to make arguments that make you think it's not worth what it seems, but it doesn't seem like anything else and it doesn't seem like the debate we need to get into. Please don't block the work. Please don't block the work. I have no basis for giving you my word, but you will find a way to get the basis. Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Skundrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29710	The Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable MPs of the National Assembly, the Law establishing a public interest in the expropriation of immovableity for the construction of the Masteral gas pipeline of MG-11 is adopted for the realisation of the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation, which has been confirmed by the Law confirming the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation and Construction of Gas pipelines in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Official Journal of the SRJ - International Contracts), No. 4/96) agreeing to co-operate in the construction and exploitation of pipelines in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the realisation of Russian natural gas deliveries, as well as the establishment in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by the Russian action society "Gasprom" and the Yugoslav company designated by the Yugoslav side, in order to design, build and finance works, exploit the aforementioned pipelines and sell natural gas to those gas pipelines in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and possibly transit natural gas through the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Under the above-mentioned international agreement, the Jugorosgas Action Society of Belgrade was founded by Gazprom and the Public Enterprise NIS, whose legal successor today is "Srbigas" Novi Sad, with today's 25 per cent stake. It's true, when it was founded, it was 50%. That's the exact data. "Yugorosgasu" a.d. Belgrade has been entrusted with the performance of the general interest on the track of the Master's gas pipeline MG-09, SG-10 and MG-11 with the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 05-No 023-448/2007 of 18 January 2007 and 05-number 023-1204/2007 of 1 March 2007 and contracts on the confidence of the exercise of the general interest, certified by the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, over the number 37/07 of 24 January 2007 and over the number 257/07 since 6 March 2007. By means of a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 13/96) and the Regulation laying down the spatial plan of the Niš Infrastructure Corridor - the border of the Republic of Macedonia (the RS Official Messenger), No. 77/02) has established a pipeline of gas pipelines, its total length from Nis to the border with the Republic of Macedonia of 166 km, technical characteristics by shares, and closer conditions for its construction. The construction of the MG-11 master gas pipeline from Nis to the border with Macedonia and the related gas pipelines RG 11-01 (the Orljana - Leskovac route), RG 11-02 (Leskovac - Vranje), RG 11-03 (Vranje - the border of the Republic of Macedonia) and RG-04 (from the main gas hub Beolin, the municipality of Prokuplje, to Blaca), with the following facilities, including the installation of the optical cable for telemetry, control and remote management of the gas systems, would provide natural gas supply to southern Serbia, providing functional connections of the water pipeline through connection stations for all municipal and rural communities, which would encourage the economic development of this region. Article 2 The Expropriation Act provides for the public interest in the expropriation of immovableity to be determined by law or by the Government's decision. Given that "Yugorosgas" a.d. does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 8. The Expropriation Act to be established for the user of expropriation for the purpose of building this facility of energy infrastructure should provide a legal basis for determining this company for the user of expropriation. Since Article 2. The Expropriation Act provides for the possibility of a public interest in expropriation being established by a special law, the adoption of this law, which determines the existence of a public interest in expropriation and creates conditions for the realization of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under that international contract and for the construction of this significant energy infrastructure facility. I would like to inform the Assembly and the citizens that all the funds needed to build a pipeline, amounting to $39.27.250, were provided by Jugorosgas a.d. Belgrade: for the Nis - Leskovac stock of $17.27.250 and for Leskovac - Vranje - the Macedonian border of $22,000,000. The adoption of this law provides conditions for access to the realisation of this gasification project, which our citizens expect, and provides the possibility of hiring a number of enterprises and workers. I propose to the Assembly to adopt this draft law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11. As regards the following proposal, it is the law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, the constitutional basis for the adoption of laws is contained in Article 97 paragraph 1 point 6), 8) and 12) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, the legal position of economic operators, the system of performance of individual businesses and other activities, the system in the field of economic relations with abroad, the single market, the system of environmental protection and improvement, the organisation and use of space and scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates the conditions for safe and smooth pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of gas hydrocarbons, design and construction, maintenance and use of pipelines, pipelines, pipelines and pipelines and internal gas installations. Currently, the Law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons (‘the Official Journal of the SRJ’, number 29/97), which until the entry into force of the SCG Constitutional Charter, was in the jurisdiction of the SRJ. This law was transposed into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. its resolution ministry, by the adoption of the Ministry Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’, No. 35/2003). The law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons is necessary in order to regulate safe use, maintenance and construction of pipelines, oil pipelines and products in technical terms. On the day of entry into force of the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Transport, Distribution and Use of Natural Gas (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 66/91, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and 12/96), thus left certain issues regulated by this law without legal regulation. Also, this law was necessary to comply with the Energy Act (the RS Official Messenger, number 84/04), which was adopted in August 2004, i.e. with EU terminology in this area. This law should be a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts which will fully regulate the area of security of construction and security of the use of pipelines, pipelines and products. Namely, the adoption of this law will create a legal basis for the adoption of sub-legal acts which will regulate the conditions and norms for safe transport and distribution in gas pipelines of all pressures; conditions and norms for safe transport of pipelines and products, remote control and management of gas pipelines, pipelines and products; design of a modernisation system; selection of the means for the approval and method for the approval of gas pipelines; design, construction and maintenance of internal gas installations; conditions and normatives for safe operation of waste; rules for the operation of energy entities to regulate the process and way of using gas pipelines, pipelines and products; conditions, programme and method of passing expert examinations for technical management, maintenance of pipelines and internal gas installations. I suggest that, in order to function normally in the area of gas and liquid hydrocarbons transport, you accept the proposed bill. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, I would like to say the following. The basic reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Mining Act are found in the need to improve the existing text of the Law and are reflected in several key elements: firstly, more precise regulation of the conditions and method of exploitation of mineral raw materials; secondly, a simpler calculation and more efficient implementation of the fee for the use of mineral raw materials; thirdly, the creation of legal preconditions for the regulation and issue of all types of licenses for legal persons in the field of mining until the start of work of the mining agency; fourthly, the tightening of sanctions for illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials; the fifth, closer editing of all necessary procedures in the closure of mines; the sixth, legal measures to encourage certain parts of the mining industry. The text of amendments to the Mining Act is a set of practical measures to improve the existing legal framework. The basic principles on which the existing law is based remain unchanged; it is about approval for exploitation, approval for the execution of mining works, the use of permits and inspection controls. The most important changes are that they enable companies and entrepreneurs to carry out certain operations related to exploitation and mining, with the basic motive of introducing equality in the exercise of economic activity. Definitions approving the exploitation of mineral raw materials for their own use shall be deleted. We have proposed this amendment from experience, to avoid wide space for possible abuses and unpaid fees for the use of mineral raw materials. The amount of compensation for the use of certain mineral raw materials is changed: technical from 4% to 1%, non-metallic from 5% to 3%, coal from 1% to 0.5%. Also, a simplified model for the calculation of the raw materials for the production of construction materials is introduced, according to a ton of unearthed raw materials. The concept of an annual programme for the development of mining and prevention and elimination of the adverse consequences of mining activities has been introduced. This is how a legal framework is obtained to provide funding for dam recovery, recreation of abandoned mining facilities, promotion and technical assistance for individual mines in government programmes. We also specified how mining activities are carried out through a clearly stated obligation to obtain all three approvals: approvals for exploitation, approval for the execution of mining works and authorisation for the use of mining facilities. An investor obligation has been introduced to provide evidence of the right of ownership or use of land, except for enterprises with majority state ownership, when obtaining an authorisation for exploitation. In this way, the criteria for obtaining approval for exploitation are strengthened in order to protect the interests of private property rights and to prevent illegal exploitation on other people's land. The concept of protection space is being introduced around the existing exploitation field, to protect investors from the negative influences of other mining activities. Also, public undertakings are under obligation to bring in a special programme before the mine is closed to address social and environmental issues in the permanent suspension of mining works and to provide the necessary resources for its implementation. The proposed text of the law proposes solutions to improve the efficiency of mining inspection and tightening of criminal provisions, in order to increase safety at work in mines. Among other things, mandates are introduced. Finally, if you'll excuse me, I would like to present another brief draft of the law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Employment. The South-Slovenian Electricity Community (JUGEL) was established to ensure and implement the orderly and uninterrupted functioning of the Yugoslav electricity system, as a technologically unique system of interest for the whole country, and was joined by organisations for the production, transmission and distribution of electricity at the level of republics and autonomous provinces of the former SFRY. We have proposed this law for the following reasons. The functioning and existence of the community as a legal entity has lost meaning by the secession of the former republics of the SFRY, and thus by the exit of the joint electricity companies of those republics from the Community. All of the former SFRY's electricity industries have brought legislation into line in the field of electricity on completely new principles, so that full separation of the power systems of the former SFRY republics has been carried out in systems operating in an independent regime within their territory. Under two, in accordance with the Constitution of the SRJ and the Constitutional Law implementing the SRJ Constitution, no harmonisation of the Community Association Act with the Constitution was carried out by the end of 1995. Under three, the Constitutional Charters of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter have not established the existence of a single energy system of the state union, a detour of the authorities, nor the way and procedure of resolving the status of the community. As a fourth, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Energy Act, there is no basis for the further validity of this law. As a fifth, the Business Society Act does not regulate the form of a business community, i.e. a business association as a special organisational form. As a sixth, the status of communities based on the same principles (such as the Yugoslav Railways Community, the Yugoslav Post Office, etc.) is also resolved by the adoption of a law on termination of validity. The property of the Community with which it has held are moving things, immovableities, the right to use on a building in the Balkans 13, at the part of a business building 4/10, the Dispecarian Center on the Street of Duke Step 412 and the unfinished business centre on the same address, money, rights and obligations and documentation regarding the housing fund and regarding judicial and administrative disputes, archive construction and documentation. Six citizens were employed in the community. We propose that this law be passed because the Constitution of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro did not regulate and foresee the way and procedure of resolving the status of the Community. The constitutional command stipulates that SRJ property is needed for the work of Serbia-Montenegro institutions of property of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as that SRJ property on the territory of Member States is property of Member States, on a territorial basis. Also, the Succession Agreement is a basic principle for the demarcation of SFRY's assets to the Successor States of the accepted territorial principle. Thirdly, following Montenegro's stage, more solutions have been made in the Republic of Serbia on the resolution of organs, businesses and institutions in which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro had found its founding rights. A law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations; also a Regulation on the position of individual institutions of the former state union and services of the Council of Ministers, but the status of this community was not covered. This is why we propose that all of these take over the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija" and the Public Enterprise "Electro Network of Serbia", according to an agreement they concluded in 2007. I propose that the draft law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of the Yugoslav Electricity Assembly accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29711	Thank you, Mr. Minister. A number of MPs have come forward who want to replicate. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29712	Madam President, we can try to establish communication in another language, since this is all pointless. Everything that follows our work today is pointless, from the President of the Legislative Committee's explanation to what we've heard now, these reports. Mr. Skundric, I have to ask you about that address on Balkan Street, an emergency procedure for the 1996 contract? I don't think we understand each other, and that all your reasons and all we've heard is the product of your lack of understanding of what we're talking about. We have made it very clear that the unsustainability of your position that the Assembly can proceed with this agenda point despite the fact that the law is being violated. Even in the explanation of the government that Mr Skundric read to us, it is concluded that it is not possible to do so in accordance with the Expropriation Act. You're pulling your head now, ma'am, but there's a difference between you and me. You're an official in one ministry, and you can end up in Jugorosgas tomorrow, as well as an assistant minister who did what you did a year ago. Don't let us wave with these papers, cabbage and shame on this country. Here you have been told by a man who has been an MP for twenty years, Tomislav Nikolic. We try to respect this congregation, get up when we talk, come here every day. Don't let us humiliate ourselves so much anymore. This doesn't look like anything. You've read us an explanation that says it's against the Expropriation Act. You are referring to the law of the Expropriation Act, establishing general interest. Article 70 tells you when the general interest is determined and in what way it cannot be established contrary to the Expropriation Act. Never mind. 1996 contract, Federal Government of the SRJ, "Official Messenger" 4/96, emergency procedure after 13 years! Let's put order in all this. We can't stop this deal now, it's done, but we can stop creating damage and chaos. The Russians know what they want from the first moment. What do we want? What did this country want when its representative allowed her to lose 25% of the ownership in this company we're talking about now? The Board of Directors of NIS has decided to take those actions, has tasked a member of the Management Board, who was your assistant, Mr Skundric, and today is in "Yugorosgas". This year's profit "Yugorosgas" is 20m euros, at the expense of all taxes, and we didn't have four million dollars to buy those shares in 2005, but we had three million for "Informatics" two weeks ago. Much respect for you as the President of the Assembly and for the harmless situation you are in, but somewhere you must stop that kind of loyalty. We're ready to take the obligation on ourselves, to do what's necessary, but we can't break things this important over our knees, on unsustainable grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29713	Time. Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29714	Rules of Procedure and Replica. I will quote one member of the Rules of Procedure - the Legislative Committee may consider the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. You were right, in some ways, that this dynamic and inspiring speech by Minister Skundric would make some clarification about this, but he only brought it in part. He made it clear in that sense that we were right. This proposal is against the law. To prevent that from being determined, the Assembly organised that there was no quorum at the session of the Legislative Committee. That's the scenario that happened. This is after Mr. Skundric's presentation, which is in some sense now opposed to us, the fact. This proposal is against the law. The way to implement the idea the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, which is that a foreign state that can own the country is the Russian Federation, the only time the government has done so is to change the Expropriation Act. I have another question, or I can say I have two questions. One thing is, we really didn't expect a lex specialis from the SPS. I have to admit, as an MP, I'm surprised. So, on the 10th anniversary or 12th anniversary of the 1997 demonstration again, another lex specialis and again without any right to any correction. On the other hand, Madam President, I'm asking you what you're proposing to us as President of the Assembly, what do we do now? We represent over 150,000 or 200,000 citizens, the SRS also, as well. We represent some citizens. We say what you're doing is against the constitution. There is a committee on which it is determined. You say: The board has no quorum. The minister says we're right, but we'll continue the debate. What's the idea? Shall we set the assembly on fire again? We use the tools we have. (President: Time. The tools are Rules of Procedure, Laws and Procedure. If those tools are disabled and you're ignoring them and reading our reports saved two weeks ago, what are we supposed to do? Please answer me and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29715	Mr. Secretary, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29716	I'll just have a quick answer. This is not a Lex specialis of the Socialist Party and this is not a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Party, but rather a proposal for a legal project by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first finding. The second finding – we agreed that Article 8 is not the basis, the legal framework and we propose, in accordance with Article 2. The Expropriation Act, to pass this law that would allow the necessary expropriation. It's about land, and it could've gone without it. It could've gone, but we don't want to. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] If we stick to the first Lex specialist that's been brought in, then that's possible. However, the government did not want to challenge it if it did something under the 1996 Law, but requested the assembly's consent to, according to Article 2 of the Expropriation Law, allow the process of expropriation to be gassed in southern Serbia. This Article 2. The Expropriation Law allows, as confirmed by the Secretariat for the Law of the Republic of Serbia. I do not dispute the right for you to have a different opinion and interpretation. The assembly procedure is here to determine whether it's one or the other, but I'm asking you not to bring the debate to the political field, because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29717	Mr. Ivan Andric is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29718	Of course, what I said was wrongly interpreted. Well, of course. Mr. Skundrich, I know you can. The government also has the Ministry of Police and can take and fence and not let anyone in; now this police force can come in here as a security guard and kill us all. He can do all that, but it's not legal, you know? This isn't legal either. We're not saying, and you're wrong, now I'm sure - on purpose, you're interpreting... We're telling you that exactly the way you've now stated you have no right to do that, because it's against the law. You need to change the Expropriation Act. You don't want to change it, because by changing that law and someone else might be involved in expropriation. That's why, Mr. Skundrich, this is politics. You don't let anyone else, except "Yugorosgas", in which your assistant works until a year ago... The man has already made it possible for the state of Serbia to miss the deadline once and for the first time in ten years since Serbia's majority ownership, now there is income, and profit and all, there are 20 million, while until last year she was a loser. That's why it's a political story. Now you want to give more to that company, since it's little, so someone else can go to Jugorosgas. That's why we say -- what you're doing, you can do anything, there's no dilemma about it; if you vote it's nighttime, it's nighttime, it's no problem, but life is somewhere else. To remove such doubts, there is a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Legislative Committee should determine whether the proposal complies with Serbia's legal system. Since the quorum is gone, it's impossible to make an argument. This is not a group that has a different opinion from you; this is what the opposition in the congregation tells you. If you do it by force, what you can do, then we don't even have to have a session, we really don't have to. If we're talking here, and you say, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, no matter, read the report, go on, just pass five hours, what do we need a session for?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29719	Sign in, Mr. Minister. Here you go. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29720	I'd like to ask you to read article 8 through the end. For this reason, the lex specialise is proposed: "Expropriation can be done for the needs of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade, municipalities, public funds, public enterprises, companies founded by public enterprises, as well as for the needs of companies with majority state capital founded by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade or the municipality, if the law is not different." Therefore, there is a possibility that a special law can be defined differently. We will do nothing beyond the decisions of this National Assembly. (Ivan Andric, from the place: It is the wrong interpretation. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29721	Gentlemen, the replica is one thing. I would just like to remind you that the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, which he has already indicated at the same session. It's a replica, and then you'll wait. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. You'll just have to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29722	I resent you because you make me feel really sad in this congregation after all these years of work. You just said out loud here that at this stage of the law-making process, the Assembly can only discuss it. This is not a debate club, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. In accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee shall consider the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. So, in order for the other MPs to be able to discuss some draft law, our body must tell us whether the draft law is in conformity with the Constitution and the legal system, not the Secretariat of the Government for Law. We do not belong to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're in charge of passing the law. So it is absolutely clear that the government has established a public interest, and now it is dragging the Assembly into it. Come on, follow the Expropriation Act. He's been challenged before the Constitutional Court. Although the Constitution in Article 58 states that property rights can be seized or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, you have introduced in the Expropriation Act a provision that the Government can also establish public interest. Now what? Whatever you want to find public interest? Then why is there a National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why are we sitting here -- to make laws or to fulfill whims, demands, the will of the Serbian government? You are seriously jeopardizing our co-operation with the Russian Federation, I dare say on purpose. You're not incompetent at all. You know very well all the consequences. You're giving us a bill of law that can be brought down before the Constitutional Court and prolonging who knows what time the pipeline is built. Do you participate, Mr. Minister? How, then, is it possible to come with such a bill to this congregation? How is it possible that the opposition is now in the same position as the National Assembly, even though its motives are different? You are here uniting completely different political views against yourself, as you united the people of Serbia against yourself. So, one wonderful idea – to work with the Russian Federation and finally provide energy – you've turned it into a sale, into a gift, I don't know, a detour. Assistant Finance Minister submits here a bill on excise duties on tobacco; then it goes to the tobacco industry to work. Some of your assistants put forward a proposal, didn't meet the requirements of forming a new firm, went to the Russian part of the company to work. What are you guys doing? Sell yourself, you just can't get out of the office of ministers, deputies and assistants. That company is Russian, what? You have 25%. Oh, my God, big property - 25%. Who asks the one who owns 49% of the property, not 25%? Or do I no longer know what is done in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29723	Thank you. Just, please, if you are already stating what I am saying, then state the sentence to the end – the Assembly is discussing and deciding. So it's your usual manner of just partially interpreting what you think goes into your favor, but it doesn't work. He has the word Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I'd like to be constructive so I can suggest something, but the Assembly would still have to decide. You know, right, there's court practice in courts, so some things are done based on court practice. I think that the draft laws, in addition to the provisions that are in accordance with the Constitution, could also specify the provision that they are in accordance with parliamentary practice. Then we'd avoid these problems. I would remind you of the famous Minister of Education, Gaš Knezevic, who in 2001, when they expelled Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law, literally said this – it is true that it is not by law, but we are applying a law that has not yet been passed and that has not come into force. And this would be the best way to get you out of this situation. Mrs. Dejanovic, I've tried to bring you closer to the situation we're in, in the way that I think is closest to you. I assume you've had a situation in your practice for individuals who present themselves as Napoleon. You know, they're convinced they're Napoleon. What you're doing at that point is the thing that will benefit them, you send them to treatment and you probably succeed, or you fail. What's the big deal? If during this presentation and proof that Napoleon is the one who listens to him (I do not say you) presents himself and says, "How can you not know me?" So I am Josephine. It seems to me, roughly, that this is such a situation – not only is this bill unconstitutional, illegal, but the Assembly should do the same thing as the Government does. The minister says nicely that this law does not comply with the Constitution, but it will be brought because it is of greater interest. We agree, it is Serbia's interest, but it is not Serbia's interest to break the law. I think you should stop this, get into a situation where we can pass a law based on the Constitution, because there's really a serious problem asking the Constitutional Court a question, that the Constitutional Court decides the way it should decide, that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, and that after that, we realize that we've wasted our time and we're going back to this job, and I think we can stop it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29725	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic. Who's in the Rules of Procedure? The replica? Well, believe me, everyone's in the Rules of Procedure, here's Miss Jovanovic in the Rules of Procedure, and everyone else is in line as I call it, for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29726	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that we do not come to this situation that Mr. Todorovic has just spoken of that the Parliament, or most of you, makes a decision that is not in accordance with the Constitution, and given the situation you are in, Mr. Ratkovic, you from the ruling majority, that you do not have... This is not only the case with the Legislative Committee, not to remind you that Mr Todorovic's meeting of the Defence and Security Committee has been scheduled five times, so there were no MPs from the ruling coalition. The only way, Madam President, to get out of this situation is to use Article 139(2). Rules of Procedure. Article 139(2) The Rules of Procedure say that you, as president of the National Assembly, if you assess that some act, or law, is not in line with this Rules of Procedure, can return it to the Proposer, because under Article 138, the Government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to give us the constitutional basis. It is stated, but the main provision in the Constitution, which we have been talking about all along, is Article 85. The Constitution. The promoter called for Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think this is just right; you should know that today is November 5th, and that on Sunday, November 8, it will be three years since we adopted the Constitution of the Serbian State, the Republic of Serbia. If you are now willing to make an affair, in the right sense, if you are willing to tell our strategic partners from the friendly Russian Federation that we are a non-serious state and that we are entering the lawmaking process that is not in line with the basic law on expropriation, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then it is certainly a bad and bear service that you are making for the citizens of Serbia. You can come out very simply, as President of the Assembly, regardless of the Committee's session today, to exercise your right, because on the basis of our discussions, you have estimated that this law does not comply with the Constitution... (President: I thank you, Miss Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... to return the proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to bring it into line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29727	Ms. Jovanovic, this law has a constitutional basis, reasons for adoption, has an explanation of individual solutions, financial resources, reasons for the urgent procedure and the reasons for the early entry into force of the law. Therefore, there are all those elements in Article 138 that are necessary, where I could possibly respect your suggestion if it weren't so. I will only remind you once again that advertising the Rules of Procedure with the contents already presented is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'll have to apply certain provisions in case that happens. The Radeta lady is advertising the Rules of Procedure, isn't that right? No, the replica, the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, announced the Rules of Procedure before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29728	Madam President, I will still try to exercise my right and draw the attention of Minister Skundric to be bound here by the Rules of Procedure, as if he were a People's MP. We don't understand each other, which is obvious. It's just a question of whether you don't want to understand us, because it's clear that we can't understand you. You don't expect MPs to be expressed here in code - MG, RG, carbons? We are politicians, we are telling you that the whole business of our country's energy co-operation with Russia is marked by scandals and that something that basically has scandal and obvious corruption deeply compromises the ideas that you here formally represent, makes our partnership with Russia difficult and cannot be ended with any positive outcome for society. We have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court over an agreement between Serbia and Russia. The Constitutional Court said the agreement between the two countries does not have to be in accordance with the constitution. The German Constitutional Court discussed the Lisbon Treaty and the signature by Chancellor Merkel. The Czech president signed the agreement only when he received guarantees that the Czech constitution at EU level would be respected. And our Constitutional Court said -- never mind, that agreement doesn't have to be in accordance with the Constitution. Now you're telling us that there are cases where we don't have to follow the law, so we're going to pass a special law that will only apply to this particular case. It's unsustainable. You are referring to the general interest, the public interest, which the Government determines, and the procedure is pending before the Constitutional Court because the Government does not have the right to do so, according to the Constitution, and then you neglect a whole series of members of the Expropriation Act that makes it impossible for you to do so. We're talking about everything that's unsustainable, the fact that your assistant is a person who has abused her position.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29729	Time. Thank you. Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29730	I'd like to ask if it's really about facts. The assistant you're saying is not in Jugorosgas, and this is not a relevant fact for the debate in this House at all. That's a first, not in "Yugorosgas". Secondly, I cannot accept the assessment that in this period since I am at the post of Minister of Mining and Energy Cooperation, strategic co-operation with the Russian Federation in the field of energy has been marked by scandals. I think it's about serious projects, which should bring good to the state of Serbia in the next 30-50 years, which we talked about earlier; that it's not just a bilateral agreement, that it's a trans-European project when it comes to "South Stream" and that this government is implementing an interstate agreement that this assembly has established and has the status of the law. I have not called upon MPs for a moment, nor is it my intention, to disrespect the legality of the work. I only suggested on behalf of the government what are the legal frameworks that should provide for the possibility of adopting this legal project in order to access the country's further gasification. This is not about, gentlemen, the interest of the Russian Federation, the interest of citizens in southern Serbia, it is about the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to use one of the most noble energy products, it is about natural gas, among other things, to protect and protect the environment, but also to protect some of the resources that we have. I can speak very specifically of any share of what it is that citizens in southern Serbia and Serbian citizens will get through the realization of this project. It is about opening projects in the area of Serbia's gasification. This is the first one. Soon others will follow, on which the government is working seriously. To do this part of the job, we need your support through the adoption of the grounds for expropriation, it's about half a hectare of the country, for the realisation of this pipeline.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29731	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta has advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29732	Yes, and Article 104 paragraph 2: "The Members of the people are obliged to address one another with respect. “ That, Madam President of the National Assembly, applies to you too, you are one of us. When you just explained to one of your colleagues, or explained from your point of view, you hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. You insulted the intelligence of the MPs. As a graduate lawyer, I must, in the protection of my profession, say this because you have offended the profession of all lawyers. You said this bill had a constitutional basis. That's not true. The constitutional basis set out is Article 99, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the Assembly, it is not disputed, and Article 58(2). It's in the explanation. That, for example, it seemed that the constitutional basis was a member of 15. The Constitution, would you say that this law has a constitutional basis? Article 15, for example, speaks of gender equality, as Article 58(2) says exactly what we have been saying for several hours: “The right of property can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee that cannot be lower than the market. “ The law that regulates this is the Expropriation Act. The Expropriation Act says that this law that we are trying to talk about today is actually contrary to that Expropriation Act, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The most beautiful please, you obviously have an interest in speaking on behalf of... (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29733	The promoter called for an appropriate member, not me. I just said there was, I was talking about form. So, I'm not competent to enter what the Constitutional Court should possibly be entering, if I understand you correctly. Mr. Marash, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29734	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, Article 104(1). I expected everything, but not to read the explanation, Mr. Minister. We can read that ourselves. Who'd you read that to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29735	Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29736	Article 104(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29737	You cannot indicate the third time on an injury. 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29738	By whom? Who is it? They're different attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29739	No, they're not different. Please don't put me in a position to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29740	The lady just said 102.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29741	Article 104, that's exactly 104. Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29742	I'm sorry, Members of the People's Parliament, but I really have to react. I've been looking for word from the Rules of Procedure for the last hour and I can't reach it. Others get the word five or six times. I sense that you from the ruling coalition don't actually know what you want. You've killed some pillars around the world, you want a little with one, with the other, with the third, you don't know who's calling you anymore, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29743	Please state which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29744	Let me finish. Infringement of Article 104 – dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29745	You can't do Article 104. It's already indicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29746	I apologize, Article 105, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29747	It is indicated to be a breach of Article 104. I understand, Mr. Ilic, that you were looking for a replica and I gave you my word on that basis. You can use that. That was my wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29748	Please, you're breaking and, simply, you're destroying the dignity of the Assembly completely. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29749	Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29750	Let me finish. It's clear to me that you want this agreement to go through the Constitutional Court, which is why you're acting like one. The evidence is that the Legislative Committee has no quorum. Gentlemen, you are the majority of the Legislative Committee. Whenever your board doesn't have a quorum to solve a situation that's problematic, that means your goal is to minimate the process that's under way. It's extremely stupid for us to sit here for hours and discuss and convince you to break the law. You don't have a quorum for something that's extremely important. Are the working bodies of this Assembly in the power of the President of Parliament to ensure their functioning? We're here for no quorum. You've had a similar situation four or five times on the Legislative Committee. Can you make sure that members of the Legislative Committee sit down, report, come and say something? You can't. It means you're deliberately obstructing and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29751	Thank you. It's been a while. Mr. Ilic, you weren't in the O.R. when Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic was giving notice, which is why there was no quorum. Simply, those members of the Legislative Committee who refused to enter and give the quorum. Two persons are physically unable to attend: Mrs Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Mr Samofalov. Physically, they are unable to participate in the work. The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29752	Since you did not allow Mr. Ilic to use Article 105, I am reporting by Article 105. You have no right to not be able to refer to Article 104 to whether it has already been warned once, whether it has already been used once, because in the meantime someone has spoken again. If anyone's dignity is destroyed... What if someone swears once a day, then they can swear by the end of the day, by 6:00 p.m., since that member was used and then it doesn't matter anymore? Now I'm going to tell you what Mr. Marash said, or he was going to say. Mr. Skundric, we're afraid this is only half a hectare and only now, but it's also one of the first. So we can expect, when this precedent is made, that it will always be done like this. That's exactly why we don't let this happen. That's the point. There's a way to do this. There's a legal way. We have to wait for the Constitutional Court's opinion, as everyone tells us, and then there will be no doubt. Either that's an option or, on the other hand, you won't be able to do it. Everything else just violates every idea and every vision. Mrs Dejanović, really, I am telling you what I started with – in the meantime it was once again spoken and the dignity of the Assembly was once again violated. We, under Article 104, have the right to report. We can't do it in a row, but we can do it every time one of us talks. Now, for example, Mr. Todorovic can answer and say that I broke it, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29753	You can't get the word. Mr. Marash, you're close to the border so I don't think you're that close anymore. We can't have a dialogue like this one. Two, you got the word on several occasions. Under three, Mr. Zoran Krasic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29754	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, here's why I called. Mr. Skundric made a lot of mistakes, but in one thing he was precise. He said this law was necessary to break the Constitution and the laws. He's urging us to violate the Constitution and the laws, and that's where we need to intervene... (President: Mr. Krasic, I apologize, I'm going to have to... ) You won't have to. I'm just going to explain why I came to that conclusion, because you're pretending you don't understand what he's saying. I understand what he's saying very clearly. I've got the only paperwork here. I don't want to read you a full stenogram, because it's pretty long. This has nothing to do with the "South Stream", or with the Russian Federation, this has to do with violating the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Look what you wrote in the bill. How could you include the words “administrative transmission”? You are in violation of the basic principles of expropriation and administrative transfer by this bill because someone came here to tell us that there is an interest in Kurzumlia. This has nothing to do with Kurzumli, or Pirot, this has to do with Mr. Skundric and this coalition. If we'd known in time what was coming, you'd have had this stenogram from the Finance Committee since February of this year. I've been waiting seven months for you to show up, get the rabbit out, and he's out. I don't mean Rabbitic, he has his representatives in this assembly. I know who's at that firm. Don't throw in the Russians or the Kurzumli, you're the head of this wicked business, this government, a rotten coalition - 126 votes and we're fine. Well, it can't go through.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29756	Mr. Petar Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29757	I think this is really below the level of dignity. Mr. Krasic, you must have full evidence to confirm what you said. You really don't have any proof. I don't care who's where. I was telling you about creating a legal framework to bring in a legal project that will allow the part of Serbia's citizens to get gas. So, please, don't make it up. I didn't invite anyone, not as a minister, not as a representative of the government, to work against the law and the Constitution. Mr. Krasic, you know it well, the whole assembly knows it. I haven't called the Russians for a moment. Here I do not represent the interests of any company or any other state, but I represent the interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you do, in the part of the executive obligations I have. So, please don't plant what's not said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29758	Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? There's no basis for replication. Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29759	Mr. Skundric tried to violate my dignity, but he couldn't break my literacy. That's Article 104 and Article 113...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29760	Mr. Krassic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29761	He's the entire Rules of Procedure, from cover to cover, hurt. Just to read to you, for your knowledge, so you know what you're defending.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29762	I warn you, and then there's a warning in accordance with Article 106. I said you can't call in a member who's already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29763	No one mentioned Article 113, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. You're not listening to me. In March of this year, you kicked us out of the assembly just to pass the basis for a law like this. We've been waiting for you since March. That's why you threw out the entire parliamentary group to push through some of your private interests. Can I read, Mrs. Djukic? Thank you. In light of the law on expropriation, here's the question in advance, I'm interested in it, I'm telling this lady of yours, the particular question: NIS is kind of privatized, 51% is a Russian partner, 49% is owned by the Republic of Serbia. If they come forward as expropriation users to set up a pipeline and we say it'll be official, they should pass the route, who submits the request, who is the user of the expropriation? The government official says - he can't NIS anymore. Just to make one difference, by transporting oil, because you're talking about the pipeline... For gas in Serbia, as far as I know, it is "Srbigas". When NIS was converted into a company of shares, 100% owned by the Republic, it was isolated from the company "Transnafta". It is a public company engaged in transporting oil to Serbia. In that sense, any pipeline or pipeline through Serbia would be built, for now, by JP "Srbigas" or "Transnaphtha". I'm going ahead, I'm not reading the previous part where this lady says: "Three are the standoffs for amending the Expropriation Act: 1) to allow an independent company to appear as an expropriation user within a public enterprise of republican importance, so I took an example of NIS and "Colubare"...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29764	Time. Thank you. There is no harm to this member, since he is talking about having everyone present in the hall, and not just the MPs, refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Skundric did not hurt any member of the Rules of Procedure or dignity. You personally? Are you dissatisfied with this response and do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? According to my assessment, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Tomislav Nikolic reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29765	I would point to the provisions of Articles 98 and 111. The rules of procedure are because Mr Skundric tried to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly unless laws that are useful for Serbia and its citizens are passed. Mr. Skundric, I do not dispute that the implementation of these projects will bring good to Serbia, a slow way to pass these laws. I'm trying to defend Serbia, so it doesn't happen to her in 1945, when the government expunged, when the government determined public interest. You just said a dangerous sentence. You said half a hectare of land doesn't matter if it's a pipeline. That peasant is half a hectare more important than a gas pipeline. He has his own private interest in defending his half a hectare of the country. The government cannot take away that land, but the Assembly can by law, which is in accordance with the Constitution. So you have to clean it up completely in your head. No hijacking, no good intentions. Last Friday, I got word from the village that I had a dune comet drained. I was in a hurry to save my damage, I was driving faster than I was allowed, and the police stopped me. When I said I had some damage there, he said: “But you are breaking the law. “ I would ask Mr. Momir Markovic to perform a great emergency elsewhere. So there's no interest that the government can establish on private property. He can't. It defends the entire developed world. That's how the world defends private property. Once again, please think, I trust you, you do not sabotage this agreement with Russia, you have succumbed to advisors, associates, coalition partners. (President: I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. According to my assessment, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you're not satisfied... I thought you'd interrupt the session, that's Article 98(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29766	I can't accept any of your suggestions. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29767	Madam President, I acted in accordance with a member of the Rules of Procedure who won't allow Mr. Skundric to contact us with the conclusion that we are misleading something. You just said that. Look at the stenogram, and you'll see that you said that we're going here to sabotage the government in its efforts to do something urgent after 13 years. You mentioned half a hectare, and it's about a master's gas pipeline in the length of 166 kilometers. Since you claimed that I was telling the truth when I said that our co-operation in the field of energy with the Russian Federation was marked solely by scandals, that it was not true, here is the first scandal: the decision, May 13, 2005 – The Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia, was in charge of Milutin Salesnovic, director of "NIS-Energogas" to take over 25% of the Progress action to preserve 50% of the ownership of "Yugorosgas". The decision, on 7 June 2005, in Moscow – is confirmed, the Russian side confirmed the right, has no objection to owning those 25% instead of "Progress" NIS. Meeting minutes, Kostunica, Naumov, Dinkic, Bubalo, January 10th – information to do so. January 20th – The Management Board of "Serbia", delivered to the Government, the Ministry, the Director-General of "Serbia", the Executive Directors, documentation and archives, to do so. And now, the bill of law, a lex specialis that puts our legal order out of effect because it wasn't done. Was anyone responsible for that? It's nobody. You can't change the legal order of the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29768	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. On the basis of Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the representative of the MEP Group of the ZES will be the National MP Branka Karavidic. Does the representative of the Finance Committee, MP Milan Vukkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Industry, the MP Milorad Buha, want a word? Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration want a word? Do the People's MPs who issued their opinion, Mr Momir Markovic and Radica Jocic, at the meeting of the Committee on European Integration, to discuss these draft laws? No, I don't. () Which of the representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, wants a word? Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29769	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, Councilors and Associates of Ministers, at today's meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this united set of laws discusses the two special interests of our country, related to capital building, that is, the megastructures of our energy and the two laws that have an unusual importance for the daily work and life of our citizens. The law on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline, MG-11, will not be declared today until we have the opinion of the Legislative Committee. On the proposal for a law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of gas hydrocarbons, which the government has submitted to parliament, a large number of amendments have been put in place, which, as the PUPS Parliamentary Group, obliged us to carry out further discussions and technical coordinations on individual solutions that have been offered. If the law is to regulate and be the legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts, which will fully regulate the area of security of construction and security of the use of the pipeline, then we are justifiably concerned that part of public legislation is not being removed from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia solely in part of the unwarranted jurisdiction of the ministry, i.e. in an unpublic part of the implementation of a lower sublaw act, i.e. a regulation that would regulate such an important area of general public security. The fact that this law and termological and legal and essential must be brought into line with the Energy Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ 84/04 2004), and now with EU terminology, further assures us that this non-public part of the law, namely the regulation on technical conditions for the transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons, must be fully public; and not only that, but above all, to the criminal responsibility of investors, designers, contractors and users and the megastructure of our energy. We cite disagreement regarding the need to regulate the area of internal gas installations through the determination of the obligation to adopt a general company act, because this cannot be, in our opinion, the law and the law of the undertaking which regulates the procedure and way of using the pipeline, but the law and the law of the parliament which adopts it and the ministries that implement it, i.e. undertakings, undertake to implement it. The Energy Act cannot only determine the obligation to adopt rules for the transport or distribution of natural gas undertakings, but rather to define the conditions and means of explicit use of pipelines by all rules of operation and by all rules of protection of special, general and public security. This new law must finally regulate all issues that have not been covered by legal and technical regulation so far, which would give all energy operators the same legal certainty, along with strict technical, technological and organisational activities, applicable in the process of regional production and integration, as well as in the transmission and trade of energy and energy inputs. We are bothered, as a parliamentary group, by the fact that no public debate has been conducted necessary for the adoption of such significant laws which, truth be told, do not change the regulated issues of this law, but always achieves uniform, fully legal and technologically justified regulations for pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that through this law, the status of energys that are of vital interest for the heating of citizens, but especially for the operation of the economy, in terms of rational use of these energys and the reduction of the emissions of harmful gases, is proposing to reduce the time limit for the application of this regulation and thus comply with Serbia's rapid gasification. This law must guarantee full protection of people and objects, with professional handling, and full automation of the monitoring, management and control system of the transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons, so it is necessary to supplement it with correct amendments proposing regulation of these issues. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in a voting day, with a good amendment to several insufficiently defined technical solutions. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act is, we are certain, the law that has sparked the widest public debate over the fact that it deeply affects the relations between local self-government and the Republic, i.e. the relationship arising from the collection of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. This law, based on Article 97(1) point. 6 - 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is governed by property and bond relations, as well as the protection of all forms of property, as well as the legal position of economic operators, the system of performing certain economic activities, protection at work and others. Also, the Constitution states in Article 87 that natural resources are located in its own country. This national property and natural resources can be used by legal and natural persons under the conditions laid down by law. Article 84. The Constitution shall prohibit the adoption of acts allowing for the monopoly or dominant position of those same legal or natural persons who use it. By adopting this law, the legislator undertakes to regulate closer and more precisely the conditions and method of exploitation of the mineral treasure, which must be effective, through which it would encourage the development of mining and energy and, in particular, prevent and eliminate the adverse consequences of mineral raw materials exploitation. Incomes of the state, i.e. autonomous provinces and, ultimately, units of local self-government, which are of exceptional importance to the living standard of the population now living in exploited areas, but also revenue from compensation for the already used energy and mining potentials, this law contaminates and subtracts from those whose territory creates enormous wealth. We remind the Members of the People that it is by the provision of Article 1. Law on the payment and targeting of funds for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and the production of oil and gas (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 16/90) was prescribed: ‘In order to provide material and other conditions for the protection, use and improvement of goods of general interest and natural and creative values of human environment in the municipality on whose territory these goods are used or used, undertakings carrying out the work of production of electricity, production of coal, surface exploitation and production of oil and gas are obliged to pay, in accordance with this law, compensation for the use of coal, water, oil and gas. “ Let’s just give an example of our largest hydropower plant, HE “Gerdap” from Kladova: it produced 7,486 gigawatt-hours of electricity in 2007, in 2008 produced 7,064 gigawatt-hours of electricity, in 2009, to this day, 7,154 gigawatts. During this same period, municipalities, which will later be counted and which are directly related to the exploitation of water or electricity production, lost the basic income of 300,000 dinars, allocated to 40 municipalities. In accordance with the provision of Article 2 of the Law, the amount of compensation was charged at 0,45 pairs per kilowatt hour of electricity produced at the Đerdap Hydropower Plant and in other hydropower plants. The fact is that the provision of Article 3 provides that the funds resulting from the compensation paid under the criteria laid down in Article 2 of this Act shall be used for the financing and construction of buildings and other works to prevent and eliminate the adverse consequences of the works carried out in the construction of hydropower plants, i.e. thermal power plants or the opening of exploitation fields and the adverse consequences of the use of these facilities. Can something be clearer? It is clear that the funds referred to in Article 1 are directed towards municipalities on whose territory is hydropower plant, thermopower plant or exploitation fields of mineral raw materials, i.e. municipalities whose territory is submerged land for the purposes of hydropower plants and other facilities. From 1990 to 26 April 2006, this established obligation was carried out by hydropower plants and other power plants according to municipalities that suffered the greatest damage by the loss of processing, quality land, loss of existence or occupation of citizens through the loss of economic activity such as fishing, shipping, vegetables, traffic, agriculture, etc. The municipalities most affected, and which are recognised today, suffer huge damages due to the exploitation of water and other mineral raw materials, i.e. due to the slow water on the Danube and other rivers, and for the purposes of hydroenergy systems such as Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek, Golubac, Velika Gradišče, Požarvac, Zemun, Bela Church, Kovin, Pančevo, Stara Pazova, Indji, Novi Sad, Titel, Žabljalj, Novi Bečej, Zrenjanin, Pećinci, Ruma, Vladimirci, Šabac, Obrenovac, Vlasotince, Surdulica, Pirot, Vladičin Han, Čačak, Baijna Basta, Pribo, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, Zubin Potok and others. The compensation for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil and gas from 1990 to 2007 was paid, in monthly amounts, from 42,568 dinars to the municipalities of Piroth and Surdulica, up to 3,439,467 dinars to the municipality of Kladovo, with the funds strictly directed to the local communities that suffered the greatest damage. Therefore, these funds did not go to the local administration budget. On this occasion, the PUPS indicates that the Water Protection Act provides for the obligation to pay for the water use fee, and the Regulation on the amount of compensation for the use of water, the compensation for the protection of water and the compensation for the materials recovered from the water stream provides for the amount of compensation and determines who are the payers for the settlement of the bill and the obligation to pay for the water use fee. This Regulation and this law apply only to consumption water, but they are not subject to a refund on the product, i.e. kilowatt-hour, by using those waters, which is placed on the market, and therefore the obligation to make up for all the damages produced in the exploitation of goods. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management issued a hydro-economic licence for HE "Gerdap 1", with a period of validity of up to 9. 5. In 2012 and for HE ‘Gerdap 2’, with a period of validity of up to 30. 8. In 2015, covered by all obligations, specially built hydrotechnical facilities with applicable permits, and a method of monitoring the impact of the water drag on the coast has been established. The obligations made under this Decision also do not specify the Law on the Monitoring and Guidance of Assets for the Use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and production of oil and gas, i.e. they do not amneste either the Đerdap, nor any other hydropower plants, nor anyone who rules the exploitation field from the obligation to pay the determined fee. The opinion of the PUPS Parliamentary Group is to propose a mining law, i.e. The energy ministry does not now have the right to exclude from this law the obligation to pay compensation and to transfer it to other ministries, as in both cases the government, which represents the state of Serbia, which is the real holder of property, i.e. the national treasure from which energy is created, collects huge revenues, but remains huge damage to the population living in those areas. The widest social debate has been launched and the amendment to Article 5 has been tabled. The bill, which was supported by 36 out of 40 municipalities and cities that are tangling such a proposal for a legal solution. In the era of alleged decentralisation in Serbia, this is seen as a significant reduction of the Republic's transfer funds towards municipalities and cities. In the context of the dismissal of workers from administration and public enterprises and a significant reduction in the original resources of local self-government, through a new set of environmental protection laws and sustainable development, and also by this law, a serious, reckless, difficult and irrational impact on the original assets of local self-government, and related to hydropower plants and users of exploitation fields. Is it necessary to say that the lack of income that solves municipal and infrastructure problems in local and local communities would lead to complete dissatisfaction and unarticulated population reactions, with the resulting adverse consequences resulting from the slow-down of surface and underground waters, environmental disturbances and, worst of all, the continuing loss of interest and the economic activities of which the population is engaged? The allocation of funds in the name of a compensation for the use of mineral raw materials compared to: 40% for the Republic, 10% for an autonomous province, and 50% for a municipality whose territory is exploited, in our opinion, is not equal because it favours the Republic, and the problems that need to be solved remain with municipalities, with particular note that the exploitation of mineral raw materials is a process of their permanent and non-refundable use and that no new development projects are financed, or the accompanying infrastructure is destroyed, and the exploitation fields are not brought into the previous situation. The law did not properly resolve the question of authorised entities for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, because it defines a company, a company and other legal persons, and does not define an entrepreneur such as the entrepreneur in our legislation. Environmental protection measures in the area of mining are partly regulated in environmental laws, and it does not mind that this law also establishes a continued need for protection before, during use and after closure of mineral raw materials fields. The fact is that so far, the Republic of Serbia has failed to re-cultivate the exploited fields and force previous users to bring them into the previous situation, for what reasons. In this law, this obligation must not only be established, but finally applied to all users of mineral raw materials. The PUPS Group hopes that the government and the competent ministry sincerely propose the adoption of annual programmes to determine the work, conditions and method of distribution and use of funds intended to encourage the development of mining, but also to prevent and eliminate any adverse consequences resulting from the exploitation of mineral raw materials. We note the fact that mining in most rural areas is a fundamental economic activity, e.g. pine-based base with powder-based (artificial fertilizer), or collubar, or silk-depositing, which would stimulate the significant opening of new jobs. If Serbia's biggest inflow came from agriculture and the use of mineral raw materials, then it is the right to transfer to them the largest source of incentives. The special obligation of the Republic under this law is related to raw materials for the acquisition of construction materials such as laporac, limestone, clay, sand, gravel, stone and others. With their entrenched processing, Serbia can quickly turn from the raw material base into a good processor, with a significant place in the EU as well. The new law should make it possible to obtain agreement more quickly to carry out the work for the exploitation of mineral raw materials by public undertakings, dependent companies, and companies and entrepreneurs, because these businesses are free to declare themselves in matters of general interest and should be implemented quickly, with a fair, legal correct procedure of expropriation. In view of the fact that mineral raw materials are consumer wealth and are not a renewable category, in our view it is necessary for this law to determine the correct and regular approach to the removal of the consequences of the end of the exploitation of certain mineral raw materials, whether human resources continue to be employed by human resources, whether it is the closure of exploatation fields by the highest ecological standards, the recycling of them to their applicability and other production purposes. Unless an amendment of the PUPS Parliamentary Group is adopted to restore the right to 40 municipalities under the Law on Payment and Directorate-General for the Use of Goods by General Interest in the Production of Electricity and Oil and Gas Production, the PUPS Group shall not be entitled to support this law in the voting day. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 97(1) of point 17 established the arrangement and provision of other relations of interest for the Republic with founders and other communities. The Republic of Serbia, in its own time, established the Community, the first community, the Yugoslav electricity sector, in order to ensure the orderly and smooth functioning of the then Yugoslav electricity system. The then Yugoslav Electricity Community had a purpose. Today's Electricity Agency, which would be created by the integrity of the electricity system, as well as by the system of interest for the whole country... It is clear that this community of Yugoslav electricity has never lived in the sense in which it was founded, and that it has suffered only all the social changes that accompanied the secession of the former republics of the SFRY, then the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the complete independence of Serbia. The PUPS parliamentary group is not familiar with many facts as to the expected outcome of this community's operations, and these ambiguities have been increased by the fact that the Law on the Association of Yugoslav Electricity was to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of 1995, and this has not been done. It is amazing that there is such a community - without jurisdiction, without any activity, without any legal jurisdiction, but with government salaries and a large number of perpetrators, to this day! In our opinion, it is not enough just to declare that this community no longer exists and that previously not all elements of the definitive succession and consolidated account between Serbia and other members of the then-SFRJ and is not sufficient to realize that the legal follower of this community will be the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, which will assume the rights, obligations, assets, assets, documentation and employees. We think it is necessary to define, in an explanation for the adoption of this law, and in accordance with the agreement on how to take over rights, obligations, documentation, data on the amounts of these funds, on current and retired contracts and obligations contained in a consolidated report and demand for debt between members of the community, and to inform the committee responsible, or the Serbian Parliament. The PUPS Parliamentary Group has seen this set of laws of great importance for the Republic of Serbia, of importance for a large number of business activities, through which the necessary social peace is being established and maintained while also implementing difficult economic reforms, very complex economic recycling and establishment of the legal regime, but we also believe that this opportunity must not be omitted to correct the wrong technical and technological solutions, in order to adopt the right, consolidated and technically acceptable solutions, and, in agreement with that, in the voting day, if necessary, it will accept these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29770	On the basis of Article 27, and in accordance with Article 93, the word is MP Momir Markovic, who gave an opinion at the session of the European Integrations Committee on the examination of the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29771	First of all, I thank Mrs. Komic for giving me the right to discuss in a separate opinion, because at the moment I was first called away. Thank you for letting me say something about this law in at least five minutes. In the principle debate, I'll say a lot more, and now, given the shortness of time, I'm just going to look back at two or three things. First, this is one of the few laws that has not been passed from abroad and translated. And abroad, they take a lot more care of all things, and here's the home smartness, because this much concentration of mixed jurisdiction, mixed activity, mixed obligations, mixed-up subjects, rules of conduct for those to whom the law applies can only come up with some domestic brains. The law was written by someone (or a group) who has only so much to do with activity that they use gas lighters. Let's say, Mr. Minister, that's one of the segments, one of the members of this law, which refers to cathode protection. I suppose you haven't even read this law, because if you had read it, you certainly wouldn't have let it in the debate; at least you wouldn't have done it the way it is, because in some members it's directly contrary to some laws, let's say, with the Energy Act, and the Energy Act is, you'll admit, the roof law for complete energy and it had to fit. A member whose law prescribes cathode protection for pipeline transport is gas pipelines, for example, for whole pipeline transport, so also for freeway gas pipelines, cooling pipelines, distribution networks and for wide consumption... In doing so, you did not mention anywhere (which means that the writer of this law didn't even know) that gas pipelines for extensive consumption through settlements, for example, work out of polyethylene pipes and that cathode protection is not needed. For the sake of Serbian citizens and MPs, to explain -- cathode protection is the protection of pipelines, or pipelines from wandering currents. Floating currents come from lightning, trams, trains and in various other ways and when they reach the conductor (and the pipeline is a conductor) they go to this conductor and on the first corner electrons pour out and carry atoms of matter. When this current is collected by cathode protection, the pipeline does not even have to be insulatingly protected, it will last much longer because it does not allow corrosion. Polyethylene tubes don't need cathode protection. In the end, you have the law, in a piece relating to fines – a fine of 200,000... In doing so, you did not make sure that the investor in such large projects could also be the state of Serbia, so by applying this law you will punish the state of Serbia with 200,000, and the responsible person, as Boris Tadic will say, with 50,000, neither guilty nor debtor. The investor doesn't necessarily have to be a distributor or a gas user, he doesn't have to be a contractor either. Those who are actually criminal policy under this law should not be covered at all, because you only include an investor who, in the end of the line, pays for the construction of a pipeline for someone and for someone's account. I thank you, Madam Chairman, and in principle, I will have plenty of time to explain how inapplicable this law is and how much confusion it will bring into the gas economy the moment it enters into force. Let me remind you, Mr Skundric, for a few dozen years the gas has been used in Serbia and there is some experience and some profession that you had to consult when writing this, or this law; not this one, because if I were you, I would withdraw from the procedure and finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29772	The word has been made by Parliament MP Balint Pastor, president of the Group of Minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29773	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to speak in this family atmosphere, since there are 18 MPs in the hall, if I have counted correctly, a few sentences on the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act or, more specifically, to present one of our amendments to this bill. Before I do that, I would like to say that we in the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians believe in parliamentary democracy and believe that important things are right here, in the National Assembly to initiate, and not in some other places. I am saying this because several parties, or representatives of several parties, have been talking about the problem of the mining of oil or, in short, about the oil rental, about the fact that it is unacceptable to have only 3% of the income in the Republic of Serbia. Now, besides us, no one has submitted an amendment to that solution. Only other SRS MPs have submitted an amendment suggesting that Serbia's oil rental be 4%, instead of three now. We've submitted an amendment to make the oil rent 15%. We are, of course, ready to talk to you too, Mr. Skundric, and the representatives of the Ministry. If you think you can't accept 15%, then we can see if somehow we can formulate it, but still not have 3% left. We believe that this is also too small because of the difficult economic situation and because of the situation in which our local self-government is located, or we believe that this 3 percent figure should certainly be increased. In the current Mining Act, this compensation for the use of mineral raw materials paid by the company that exploits mineral raw materials for hydrocarbons in liquid and gas conditions, oil and gas is foreseen at 3% of total income. The funds made on behalf of the 40 per cent fee belong to the Republic of Serbia, up to 10% are the revenues of an autonomous province, with 50% of the municipality's revenues on whose territory are exploited. We believe that the proposal to increase the percentage in the name of the fee for the use of mineral raw materials from 3 to 15% is justified for several reasons. I'll say a few sentences about those reasons. As the first argument could be the following – the exploitation of mineral raw materials is a continuous process, which leads to a permanent outflow of the wealth of the municipality, and an increase in compensation for the use of mineral raw materials would mean at least the return of some of that wealth on the territory of the unit of local self-government, on the territory of the municipality or city. This increase in income on this basis is not only in the interest of local communities, local self-government, but also in the interest of the autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia as a whole. A significant part of these funds could also be used to finance, i.e. co-finance development projects of the same municipality or city whose realisation is planned, in the area of education, social protection, culture, sport, communal activities, or other activities relevant to the residents of a specific municipality or city. An increase in the amount of funds achieved on behalf of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials could be used to eliminate damage to existing infrastructure, i.e. roads in the municipality resulting from exploitation. I will give an example of Kanjiž municipality: in this municipality, oil exploitation is carried out in the territory of six local communities and there are many roads that need to be repaired for use for these purposes. Other countries' experiences also contribute to the initiative to increase the rate of compensation. Of course, I know there are other examples. I'm sure you'd like to give an example of Croatia or Romania, where the percentage of the oil rent is even lower. For example, in Hungary, which is in a much similar position as Serbia, it is 12%, and in some countries of Europe, it reaches as much as 20-30% of the total revenue achieved by the exploitation of mineral raw materials. A lot has been said in the past months, both here in the Assembly and in general in the media in Serbia, about the need to change the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia, as MPs do not represent those municipalities from which they come. I believe, Mr Skundric, that whether MPs represent the interests of those municipalities from which they come does not depend on what kind of electoral system we have in the state, or whether it is a proportional system or a majority. If all those MPs coming from the territory of municipalities where there is an explosion of oil or gas insisting and supporting this amendment, then this amendment to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians would certainly pass. I appeal to all my colleagues who come from municipalities where this exploitation is done to support our amendment, because it would be in the interest of these municipalities, no matter who is in power, from when they are in power and as long as they are in power in those municipalities. I received a letter a few days ago, as did all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. They complain that they have come to the threshold of bankruptcy and that they cannot, due to the reduction of the transfer funds, finance their responsibilities. Among these undeveloped municipalities, for example, is the municipality of Zitiste. If the oil rental instead of 3% were 15%, or at least 6, 7, 8, 10%, as much as, just to be above 3%, I'm sure the problems of the municipality of Zitiste would be reduced because they would get additional funding for their responsibilities. This problem, of course, has Zrenjanin, this problem also has Kanjiža, the problem has Pančevo. These municipalities, these units of local self-government are more developed than the Citist, but it would not be bad if these municipalities were to increase the revenues of the municipality or the city. It's about the sums of a few dozen million dinars per year. These funds for one republic's budget, one state means nothing, and they mean very, very much to the budget of the local self-government units. What I just said is of importance when we have in mind that no public property law has yet been passed and that local self-government in Serbia still lacks its own property, or that they do not have their own original income at all. We hope that the Law on Public Property will soon be adopted in the National Assembly. The draft, or working version of this law, was drafted in October last year and nothing has happened since, and local self-government is in such a difficult situation. This situation further worsens the fact that the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia is still in force. The law completely prevents local self-government from having their own property, from having their original incomes. Now that that's the situation, then we think it would certainly be celery and justifiable that the mining rent, the oil rent, is not 3%, but that it would be higher. I hope the Ministry of Mines understands this initiative. I'm sure, Mr. Skundric, that you feel completely how much together we would help local self-government units if this amendment was adopted. On the other hand, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, these amounts are just a drop in the sea. So nothing will harm the Republic of Serbia's budget. I hope this amendment will be accepted. I must say once again, we are ready to discuss this amendment, we are ready to change this figure, but if we do not come to an understanding, then we will not be able to vote on this law on amendments to the Mining Act. The other laws that are on the agenda today will be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29774	Thank you. Before we continue the work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly was followed by Mr Milos Milosevic, who helped MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac when she was physically attacked. He expressed his desire to see from the gallery the hall where we work, that is, his house, because this National Assembly is the house of citizens and citizens of Serbia, just as much as our workplace. I hope on behalf of all of us... I urge all citizens in similar situations to show solidarity and courage, civil zeal, to help each other, regardless of what we do not know on the street, but to show that we are in trouble close to each other. Thank you for your visit, and I hope that this visit, with all of us together, will give a clear message that we are with the citizens of Serbia, clear and determined in the fight of all forms of violence and crime on the street, for the safety and security of all citizens. People's MPs... I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic, for helping me say – and the citizen. All of us. At this point, I'm setting a break and the end of our afternoon work at 14.20 p.m. The work continues at 15.20 hours, under Article 93, with a debate involving the presidents and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. The word will be given to the People's MP, Free Maras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29775	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic, replica. Before I let you take advantage of the right to a replica, just once again, since we were even more scarcely composed when I first said it – I would like to inform you that today we will be working even after 1800 hours per item of the agenda, which is on the agenda at 1800 hours, and in accordance with Article 85. Mr. Rangelovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29776	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would like to use the right to reply. Namely, my name is mentioned today during the afternoon session, in the context of an explanation of the inability to convene the Legislative Committee. I've finished my official duties, I've come from the official road, so I'm here and there's no interference with having the Legislative Committee convened. There is also a need to convene the Legislative Committee because it is a debate on the law discussed today by the Assembly as well as on the Legislative Committee, because it is contrary to the Expropriation Act, with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act and with Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I would also like to express my disagreement with this kind of violence against law as an LDP MP, and as a member of the Legislative Committee and as a professor of law school and, finally, as a born Nischli, because under this law, my fellow citizens will be exploited for the benefit of a foreign company along the 160km. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29777	Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29778	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for a law establishing a public interest in the expropriation of immobility for the gas pipeline MG-11, I would first like to say that expropriation in a narrow sense represents a loss of property rights on immovable matters for one entity and at the same time, a right to the same facilities for another entity, a state, or a legal person doing some public interest. Expropriation in a broader sense constitutes incomplete or partial expropriation, i.e. limiting the content of property rights in a larger or smaller scale, which is not accompanied by a complete loss of property rights. In that sense, real service can also be established. In order to carry out the actual expropriation, there needs to be a public interest. The distortion of public interest in expropriation is defined by the needs of plan and economic development. The adoption of this legislative proposal creates conditions for the determination of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity for the construction of the SG-11 pipeline in favour of "Yugorosgas" and the implementation of the expropriation procedure on the route of that pipeline. In line with the programme of achieving the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, the construction of the Master's gas pipeline MG-11 Nis - Leskovac - Vranje, which will enable gasification of the southern part of the Republic. The investor of this project is the mixed Russian-Serbian company "Jugorosgas". Project technical documentation is under way, which is produced by JP "Srbijagas" for "Yugoros". The completion of construction of the 123km gas pipeline will provide gas supplies to several municipalities in southern Serbia, creating conditions for the construction of distribution gas networks for household, heat, hospitals and industrial consumers. In addition to industrial growth, which is very important for these medium-developed municipalities, and the degree of pollution would be significantly reduced after the region's gasification has been completed. When it comes to the proposal for a law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of hydrocarbons, it is important to say at the outset that these legal proposals regulate the conditions for safe and smooth pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, then, design and construction, maintenance and use of pipelines and internal gas installations, which include design and construction, testing and release into operation, use and maintenance, professional training, protection measures, internal gas installations and inspection. The reasons for the adoption of this law are justified in the light of the need, in particular, to regulate the safe use, maintenance and construction of pipelines in technical terms. On the other hand, the law, which is in force in 1996, is certainly necessary to comply with the Energy Act, as well as with the European Union's terminology, when it comes to this area. I would also like to point out that on the date of entry into force of the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Transport, Distribution and Use of Natural Gas has ceased to apply, which is why certain issues regulated by this law have been left without legal regulation. In order to connect energy entities in the region, achieve their equal position on the energy market, as well as the approximately degree of protection of energy customers, acts relating to the regional market are necessary. The adoption of this law is certainly necessary and in order to bring our legislation into line in the field of energy with EU regulations relating to the energy sector. Thus, by passing this law, regional integration processes in transport, transport and trade in energy will take place smoothly, and conditions will also be created for integration into European economic flows. It must also highlight the importance of adopting this law, as it is a legal basis for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts that will fully regulate the area of security of construction and security of gas pipeline use. This will solve many of the problems that exist in this area, which are caused, above all, by the lack of proper regulations. As we believe, the reasons are clear, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. We also have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. The basic reasons for the adoption of this law are in the need to improve the existing text of the law and are reflected in several key elements: more precise regulation of the conditions and methods of exploitation of mineral raw materials; simpler calculations; more efficient implementation of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials; the creation of legal preconditions for the regulation and issue of all types of licences for mining rights until the start of work of the mining agency; tightening sanctions for the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials; closer to the regulation of all necessary procedures in the closure of mines and legal measures to encourage certain parts of the mining industry. As the basic principles on which the existing law is based remain unchanged, such as the approval for exploitation, the authorisation for the implementation of mining works, the use of permits, inspection checks, amendments and additions to the Mining Act do not constitute a systemic step in the reform of the mining sector, but rather a series of practical measures to improve the existing legal framework. The amendments and additions themselves allow companies and entrepreneurs to carry out certain operations related to exploitation and mining, with the basic motive of introducing equality in the exercise of economic activity. I'd like to underline a few important things that are surrounded by these changes. They relate to changing the amount of compensation for the use of certain mineral raw materials, introducing the concept of protection space around the existing exploitation field, introducing commitments for public enterprises to deliver a special programme before closing mines to address social and environmental issues and so on. When we talk about the draft law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, I would point out at the beginning that JUGEL was founded to ensure and achieve the orderly and uninterrupted functioning of the Yugoslav electricity system, but the secession of the former republics of the SFRY has led to the entry into force of the joint electricity companies from the Community. All of the former SFRY's electricity industries have brought legislation into line in this area of electricity to a whole new principle, so that they function as systems in an independent regime within their territory. It should be borne in mind that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Energy Act there is no basis for further validity of this legislative proposal. Also, the status of communities based on the same principles, such as the Community of Yugoslav Railways, the Community of Yugoslav Post Offices, etc., is resolved by the adoption of the law on termination of validity, and I would not further comment on the reasons for adoption, i.e. support for this legislative proposal. They are, in our opinion, quite clear and unequivocal. Therefore, in the end, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Group in the voting day will also support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29779	I thank Mr. Milicevic and I give my word to Mr. Slobodan Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29780	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I must say that the morning engagement of the Liberal-Democratic Party around this law has been directed before us to protect the public interest, to protect the legality of this assembly. We have tried, indeed, in all ways to draw attention to you, Madam President, and also to the Minister himself as a representative of the government that it is completely non-insular, completely abnormal to pass the law when there is already an Expropriation Act, i.e. to bring lex specialis, and only to one economic entity, which is not mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia. That's why I have to say that this law that's ahead of us, which is the law on the determination of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity to build a master's gas pipeline of MG-11, against which, of course, LDP has nothing... Of course, we are in favour of building a pipeline, as is normal for us to have a "South Stream" that will pass through Serbia, but all in line with Serbia's public interest, that Serbia has an interest in it, both citizens and citizens of Serbia. We have the Expropriation Act, which in Article 2 determines what the general interest is and says – the general interest in the expropriation of immovableity is determined by this law or decision of the Government, which is in accordance with the Expropriation Act. We have a member of the 8th, to which the motionor himself is invited. The proposer himself, calling for Article 8, says the expropriation can be done for the needs of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade, the municipalities, etc. if it is not otherwise defined in the law, as well as companies established by public undertakings and for the purposes of companies with majority government capital. That is why it was necessary to bring this lex specialis, as the company AD "Yugorosgas" which gives the right to expropriate land from, as far as I understand, 166km, according to the Macedonian border, is not mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia. We also have an article 70, which, Mr. Skundric, you have not spoken of before. I tried to get word in the morning, but the president of the assembly didn't give me a chance to say it then. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic spoke of the general interest in Article 70. It says this - the rights to real estate in state and social property can be taken away or restricted by a municipal administration solution, transferred to another holder of the right to real estate in social, state property and if this requires general interest. The general interest referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by means of a law laid down for the expropriation of immovable property. I think the essence lies here, too, but I must return to the company that has been granted the right to expropriate this country, AD "Yugorosgas", which, in an explanation sent to the MPs, says by mistake that by establishing Serbia, or "Srbigas" - 25%. There was forgotten one fact that, with the establishment of the Jugorosgas company in 1996, 50% owned by Russia's Gazprom, 50% owned by "Serbigas", which other Serbian firms. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, Progressgas Trading is trying to sell its stake, which was 25% at the time, in Jugorosgas, and by the right to prevent purchases, is agreeing with "Srbigas". I have documents here, and I suppose you do, even though in the response you gave us in 2008 you said that such a memo never arrived at the Ministry of Energy and Mining. So, on 13 May 2005, a session of the Oil Industry of Serbia, the Management Board, signed by the chairman of the Management Board and a decision has been made – the conclusion of a purchase contract for Progress Trading Belgrade amounting to $4,800,000. In point 5 – Milutin M. Salesović, a graduate engineer, then director of NIS "Energogas" is in charge of the implementation of this decision and for the conclusion of the purchase contract with “Progresgas trading” and “Beobank” in bankruptcy. Delivered: 1. The Ministry of Mining and Energy. In a letter, i.e. in response to our parliamentary question that you referred to us, Mr Skundric, during 2008 you stated that such a thing never arrived at the Ministry of Energy. And then on the Industry Committee, I tried to tell you why it didn't come. Because whoever was authorized to implement the decision of the Board of Directors of NIS and to buy a "Serbiagas Treying" 25% of Progressgas in the meantime became an assistant minister of energy. Since he failed to fulfil his obligation to whom he was in charge, he probably removed the memo, but that is, as I told you then, for some other organs, which should be investigated. Furthermore, we have the decision of the AD "Yugorosgas" assembly held in Moscow on 7 June 2005, the deputy president of the Jugorosgas Assembly, Mr Zeljko Popovic, signed. It says this - information is accepted that the Board of Directors of NIS has made a decision to increase the role of Serbia's Oil Industry in the capital "Yugorosgas"; the conclusion of the buy-in contract "Progress Trejing" and "Beobanke" in bankruptcy by the oil industry of Serbia is approved. After that, there's a tight spot. After that, no one from the government, or the government itself, reacts because NIS could not have made this purchase without a decision from the government. The deadline for intervention, i.e. to buy, I repeat, is passed by the law for $4,800,000, 25% of a company that, meanwhile, becomes an intermediary in the purchase of gas between Serbia and Russia. What's he getting with that intermediation? I will now show you the 2006 financial report "Yugorosgas", Dragon Jovina 8-10, 11000 Belgrade, a loss in 2006, until they were intermediaries, over 300 million dinars. I have here an annual financial report for the year 2008 of the same firm, which in the meantime became an intermediary -- when tax is rejected, the profit is two billion dinars, twenty million euros. We tried in the past, and you know it well, to point out to all those who led to that failure. I mentioned to you earlier Mr. Soldovic, a man who was in charge of the Board of Directors of NIS to implement this decision, then the director of "Energogas", who moved to work at the Ministry of Energy. He was one time your assistant, he came to the Industry Committee once, and he couldn't show up anymore. This is the person who made different statements during 2006 and 2007. The first statement was that it was guilty of not buying 25% in "Yugorosgas", or that 25% "Progressgas Treying", at the government. When he became an assistant minister, he said it was the fault of the NIS Management Board. What happened in the meantime? The director of "Srbijagas", or chairman of the Management Board, was appointed, I think, was the director of "Srbijagas", Mr. Milos Tomic, and brought a new man from G17 Plus, Milos Milankovic. I shared this memo with the press last year and you are familiar with this information given by Minister Naumovo (when Naumov was the Minister of Energy), where he met the minister like this – there was no pressure for the introduction of gas brokers. Also, the introduction of a mediator is in the interest of Gazprom. That was stated by Milankovic in his memo, and there was no pressure on the Russian side to conclude an unfavourable contract than the existing one. The conclusion of a contract with "Yugorosgas" is explained by economic reasons and, now, watch out for this, by protecting the large investment "Gasproma" in capital energy facilities in Serbia. At the time, Milankovic was the director of "Srbigas" and had a salary of three thousand euros. At the same time, he was the assistant, or vice president of Jugorosgas, of the company we are now talking about. He had a salary of 9,000 euros there. And then I asked questions and now I ask the question – how can the director of "Srbigas" be delegated to the company, in accordance with the rules in force in this country, in a company where there is three times the salary? Whose interests will they defend? As Mr Milankovic did not defend, I do not believe anyone will. What happens next? On January 11, 2006, a meeting attended by Vojislav Kostunica, then Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, then Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance in the Government Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Industry in the Government Vladimir Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government, was conducted by Zoran Milanovic, an energy adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister. Among other things, Mr Skundric, the meeting discussed the old debt Serbia has towards Russia. Different numbers are listed here. In principle, there were about 200m euros. There was talk of a release into the function of the underground warehouse "Banatski dvor", but also of the status of the mixed company "Yugorosgas". At that time, all of these people, who were the most responsible in the country, accepted the finding that the government had not responded, failed to implement the decision of the Board of Directors of NIS and that ownership of over 25% of “Progressgas Trejing” in “Yugorosgas” had crossed into the hands of a company called “Centrex”. It is based in Vienna, controlled by Gazprom, since it is the daughter of Gazprom. In the past, we mentioned who was all in that company and who had something to do with this company. There was also talk about the construction of the Niš - Dimitrovgrad master pipeline, etc. I wanted to ask you, among other things, (the other day no one answered me, when there was a minister) were you one time when you spoke to the Russian side or now Russian President Medvedev has asked me why Russia did not write off the gas debt to Serbia? In 2003. Djelic boasted that it was settled, so it was not so. It's 2009, what's our debt to Russia for gas? That old debt that the Russians can't write us off, even though we have such good relations with them? In 2006, 20 January, the chairman of the Management Board of "Srbigas" Svetislav Krstic, then a member of your party, notes and accepts information on business coordination and organisation activities "Yugorosgas"; accepts that it has moved to "Central Energy and Gas", Vienna, i.e. Vienna, Austria, etc. of the band "Gaspromneft" Moscow. We have a big problem. The Jugorosgas company, which owns 25% of everything, or 25% of the stake has Serbia, is annually realised, we saw clearly in this 2008 report, not to bid, the profit of two billion, when the tax is rejected. Who's responsible, Mr. Skundric, for being a middleman, why can't we control that middleman anymore, because we only have 25%? Who is responsible for the fact that of those twenty million, when a mediator had to be introduced or someone here intervened, that of those twenty million euros, or two billion, we only have 25%, or "Srbigas", and we don't have 50%? I must further state that we, Madam President, sent you a letter as the LDP Parliamentary Group on 20 October 2008, showing that Serbia has ratified an agreement on co-operation in the oil and gas industry with the Russian Federation, which we did in 2008... Before that, before we sent it, we mentioned to you and warned you that we already have an agreement with the same state, which was signed in 1996 and which is in effect for the next 25 years. Mr. Skundric, you well know, when an agreement was signed with the Russian Federation in 1996 and founded "Yugorosgas", "Yugorosgas" won the concession at 25 years. What do you want him to do? To shut down southern Serbia. Is one centimetre down by "Yugorosgas"? It's not. You now expect us to believe that someone who has done nothing for 13 years, who has recorded losses until he has become a mediator, now, after what we do in this assembly hall, or what the ruling majority supports... And I hope he doesn't, because of his conscience, because, under one, the law is broken. You know very well they should've done the gas down there. They didn't do anything. Now we have to trust them to do, now that the citizens of Serbia... I don't want it to sound pathetic, we talked last year, cancel the middleman, and you won't have to raise the price of the gas 60%, as much as it was raised. So, on the back of Serbia's citizens, someone makes 20,000,000 euros a year. I know it's dangerous what we're talking about, getting in somebody's pocket, but it's in the interest of Serbian citizens. So, Serbian citizens, one firm gets 20m euros annually because it is an intermediary, an intermediary that was introduced in 2006. I must remind you, in 2001, the middleman was abolished by the government of Zoran Djindjic. Prior to that, the mediator was "Progressgas trading" Mirko Marjanovic. But let me tell you, that's when the commission was 0.2%. Now the commission is 5%. That's what someone's paying for. They're paying the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Skundrich, I wanted to tell you something else. That's what the president of the LDP, the president of our parliamentary club, spoke of. It concerns you directly, i.e. the solution to give consent to the investment of the capital of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, which was brought by the Government. I want you to explain to me how the government is working now. If the government hadn't had enough time for the 2005 law... I know you weren't in it back then, but probably, as you like to say, there will be a new minister coming tomorrow, and before you were, so the government is working on certain principles. If the proposal "Srbigas" arrives, as the NIS proposal arrived in 2005, to buy 25%, and the government is silent and past the deadline, how is it possible to meet and decide now at the request of "Serbigas" within two days to agree on a decision to take ordinary actions of the fifth emissions, without public offering, to increase the basic capital of "Informatics" AD Belgrade, which was taken by JP "Srbigas" at a session of September 15th? Serbian citizens, September 15th, "Serbigas" makes a decision, and already 17th responds to the government. What's the interest in losing Serbiaagas, one of the biggest losers among public enterprises, has the interest of buying for three million euros Belgrade's Informatics, and four years ago it wasn't an interest to buy 25% of the participation in Jugorosgas for 4.8 million dollars? We've been trying to protect the public interest all along. The point is that those who at certain times decide on this state obviously protect their interests, personal, party interests. Unfortunately, I can say that some in these cases protect the interests of another country more than their own. The Liberal Democratic Party cannot support this law, but there is no point in that support. The Liberal Democratic Party is asking you to reconsider, to first make changes to the Expansion Act, to do everything in accordance with the law. We are not against partnership with Russia, but we are against partnership with any country if we give it something, unless we are doing something in accordance with the law and, most importantly, if we are doing something against the citizens of Serbia, or the state of Serbia. I know you agree with what I said, at least as far as these last three things are concerned, that we have the same interest. That's why I'm asking you to make a deal at the government and pull this out of the procedure, to first talk about the Expropriation Act, so let's do something like this. We'll all be laughed at, and no one likes to have someone who's willing to do without any conversation that everything that's asked of him, a lot of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29781	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will dedicate my discussion to the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, and my fellow Members from my parliamentary group will talk about the other legislative proposals contained in this group of draft laws. When you compare the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act with the basic text of the Mining Act, it is very easy to determine the motivation of the Serbian Government to come to the National Assembly with such a proposal at all. So, the basic goal to achieve the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, as much as you try to deny it, is to close the majority, if not all mines with underground exploitation in Serbia. All members of the bill, except for the 16th and 17th members, practically serve to mask what I'm talking about with various text amendments that, if the law is adopted, it will have absolutely no meaning and, on the other hand, that the bill would not be made up of just these two unpopular members, but to be, pro-forma, twenty. All of this should be observed at the current moment and as part of high pressure from the IMF to "deprive" every beneficiary of state subsidies, including mines with underground exploitation, which without state subsidies can only close the gates. All these claims come to light when it comes to, let's say, and the reasoning of the bill, where in a very characteristic way the story of the money that the government would save if the mines were closed with underground exploitation. It is absurd and cynical when you say that the reasons why the law is proposed are "the need for closer and more precise editing of the conditions and the way in which the mine is exploited", etc., that I am not reading your explanation now. I ask you, where is this closer and more precise arrangement of the terms and methods of exploiting the mineral treasure? No, it's all a mask. So the central theme of this proposal is closing the mine. If you do not accept our amendments, all other changes to the basic text of the law, be they good or bad (to say that there exists and some good) fall into the water. The proposed amendments to the applicable law are mainly, as I said, until the amendment of Article 47 of the applicable law, a distraction from the basic problem in this proposal, so simple alignment with the laws that have come into force in the meantime. For example, the whole text says "protection to work", in accordance with the Labour Safety and Health Act, they change to "safety and health at work"; further, the words "consensus of the ministry" are changed to "act of ministry" etc. There is no obligation to prove ownership of parcels of the field of exploitation before the exploitation of the field due to the possibility of possible expropriation in favour of public enterprises exploiting mineral raw materials. The relevant law in Article 13 provides that the exploitation of mineral raw materials can be carried out by a company, a company, or a legal person. It is illogical to add entrepreneurs when it is known that only making documentation is necessary to obtain exploitation rights, without the cost of research and the cost of buying land, is hundreds of times the cost of setting up an enterprise. The basic question arises – why or who are you doing this for? It is interesting that the entrepreneur puts himself in a privileged position with regard to other economic operators. Article 22 for the same infringements provides for multiple sentences for entrepreneurs in relation to the penalties provided for by the undertaking. For the same infringements, the company is being punished between 300,000 and 3,000,000 dinars, and the entrepreneur between 50,000 and 500,000 dinars or, in the other case, the company is being punished between 100,000 and 200,000 dinars and the entrepreneur from 5,000 to 200,000 dinars. It is clear that this much favouring of one type of economic operator is unacceptable to another. It is also interesting to suggest that the fee for underground exploitation of all types of coal be reduced from one to 0.5%. The question arises who will pay that fee if they close or close mines with underground coal exploitation, what do you want, it's undeniable, with this bill to do? It is absurd for the technical control of the project to be carried out by the same legal person who made it, because it devises technical control. If technical control of the project is envisaged for any level of design, in any branch, in any country, it is never done by the legal person who created the project. A number of members foresee changes in the way of obtaining authorisation to start the exploitation of mineral raw materials such as, for example, defining the protection space around the exploitation field, which is completely irrelevant because it can be claimed with certainty that new coal mines will not be allowed to be opened with underground coal exploitation when the government's mission and goal since 2001 is to close the mine with underground coal exploitation under a non-profitable layer, and in fact more under the pressure of the IMF, as in Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, etc. where certain coal mines are closed, and we know that such mines everywhere in the world operate with subsidies from their countries. Finally, the most important in the proposal to amend the Mining Act is to amend Article 47 of the basic law in which the last sentence is deleted, which provides for a major project to close the mine, but with the possibility of reopening the mine. In a given, unfavourable moment, mines can be preserved, so to speak, until they create suitable conditions to reopen, it is not disputed, but the Government will not allow this change any longer. So once the mines close, they're closed and they're done. Furthermore, it is proposed to add a new member of 47a, which finally makes it clear how to close mines with, I would say, tragic solutions in points 1 to 6, where, for example, the problem of local communities created by closing mines is foreseen. Now you're just discussing this thesis that I claim is crucial – the closure of mines located in these territories. How can this be solved when it is known that all mines employ a large number of people in these municipalities, so closing mines would lead to a large number of social cases and other numerous problems in local communities, which this government does not seem to be aware of? One of the points in this article provides for solving the problem of extra employees under the law. The question arises – what law did you in some thousand cases, when you fired people, sort it out in some way? Is that perhaps your solution when your Director of the National Employment Service says – we are ready to welcome officials from the state administration and local self-government. Where's the solution? There's no solution here. Experience tells us that out of a thousand workers from a public enterprise mine with underground exploitation who in 2005 took a social programme and left the company, a new job was found or opened by only 50 workers. Everyone else is on the National Employment Service lists, or they're sitting there waiting for maybe ten more years to retire, because in those years, no one's gonna take them to work. That's, I guess, your solution. Finally, there are still amendments to the criminal provisions, which also solve nothing important for mine survival, which in my opinion is a fundamental issue, and on the other hand, nothing important for overcoming the problem that would arise from the closure of the mine. All mines with underground coal exploitation are extremely old, some over a hundred years old, and it is clear that without a concrete investment from the government, without new investments in existing mines, none will be able to survive much longer. A legitimate question arises whether you are aware of the conditions in which these mines work, extremely difficult and dangerous for the health and life of people? To remind you, in the 1990s, the Serbian government estimated that these mines should be preserved with underground coal exploitation, because they were also one of the important factors for the preservation of social peace, so in 1992 a decision was made to attach all mines to the public enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" in order to overcome the problem of coal, investment and profit payments. There were no major problems in this period as regards the payout of earnings, the allocation of funds for investment, the payment of contributions to PIO and the contribution to health, of course within the scope of the state in these difficult times. Even during one period, the mines were given two kilowatts of money per electricity number, so that it would soon be abolished due to high public pressure. Major problems in mines with underground coal exploitation began with the arrival of a new government after 2000, which under the pressure of the IMF was just waiting for a politically convenient moment to start closing these mines. Finally, on July 3, 2003, with Kori Udovici, a former IMF adviser, the new Minister of Mining and Energy, all mines with underground coal exploitation were expelled from the company's "Electro-priority of Serbia" and left at the mercy and mercy of the harsh privatisation process, which, given how it was implemented in our eyes, without talking about who the buyers were, they would not be able to survive. The miners' union then began a general strike for all employees, who failed. Today, mines and miners, who are not able to retire without the contributions paid to PIO, cannot retire; workers who have acquired the conditions can't retire because no one has been practically paid contributions and this is being resolved by ad hoc, contributions to PIO; health contributions are not likely since 2004, and the result was that, after a new decision, all government employees in the public underground coal exploitation company did not have certified health books from 1 July to 3 August 2009, i.e. They had no basic right to be treated. It is a shame that those who risk their lives daily and come down hundreds of feet underground did not have the right to health care for a month. What follows the mines now is an uncertain struggle for state subsidies since 1 January 2010, which practically means a struggle for bare survival for them. Without subsidies, the consequences will be catastrophic and the threat of social existence, with family members, will result in more than 20,000 citizens of Serbia. In all European countries, mines have been closed under concrete mine closure laws, and this proposal provides for closure on the basis of a programme that forms a public enterprise in which the mine operates. So closing the mines is a very sensitive question. Given that our mines are located in areas where practically the only economic operators are, their closure would also cause population migration, so it is unacceptable to close only on the basis of a public enterprise programme, not on the basis of a more serious debate and, possibly, a law in the Assembly. What is the consequence, or alternative, of closed mines? The import of coal, which has already taken hold. May those who lead Serbia do well to calculate what is more worth, should they help our miners, our citizens, make people earn their families' lives or spend our foreign exchanges on coal imports, with tens of thousands of people hungry from mining families? During the period of gas shortages and great colds, the government pressured to produce as much coal as possible. Then the government remembered these mines and miners, to prevent unrest, and then many from the government potentiated the survival of mines as safe enterprises that provide energy for both household heating in large cities and for the production of electricity in thermal power plants. I note that the mines are a state-owned company, the founder of which is the Government, and that the state, in particular, should have been domestically treated for each of its companies, not allowing for years for the import of coal, which directly endangers the placement of domestic coal, that it allows many to become rich on the way, because that coal is not cheaper, and that, on the other hand, it tries to buy social peace at the cost of coal, contrary to some other energy companies. So, total chaos. Government behavior is without any strategy when it comes to these mines. You're not interested. Just to disappear, with as few media halls as possible. So, silently shutting down. That's why it's going through this way, through this bill. The Serbian Progressive Party has submitted amendments to the bill. Two amendments, to the 16th and 17th members, are vital to miners. The others are correcting some of the illogical things we've seen. I especially appeal to all MPs to vote for these two key amendments, to together prevent the possibility of closing not only mines, but also some municipalities – Bolovac, Despotovac, perhaps Zaječar, if so said, because, in some ways, this will be a continuation of the story of the law on the maximum number of employees in the republican and local administration, known as the law on layoffs, and then will come to order health, education and others. That's why I'm asking you to try and cut this off. On our part, we'll do everything we can to do, especially in such a harsh way, without any economic and social plan for miners, who knows which way, doesn't come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29783	Thank you. Mr. Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29784	Dearly respected Presidency, Mr. Minister, we have a very rare opportunity in this House to attend the defence of the law of the minister who proposes the law, from the ministry created by a certain law. Very often we have cases that the Minister of General Practice, Mr Milosavljevic, represents all the laws, defends all the laws, so you can take this as a commendation because those laws that your ministry has drawn up represent you in this Parliament and you defend them in some way, that is to say, you are listening to the objections and suggestions made by the MPs regarding the legislative proposals. However, as the debate began this morning, it can really be said that this bill, first of all, I am referring to the determination of public interest for the MG-11, in a way devalues this whole story and this finding that is in your favor. So, it's an obvious good wish, one good intention to implement through the determination of public interest the gasification of Southeastern Serbia and thus raise the economic standard of that population, to give the population, conditionally, one cheaper, better energy and to raise the development of the entire region through the use of that energy, but we are entering a pointless and groundless midday debate on whether this bill has been sent to the assembly procedure in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with other laws, above all the Expropriation Act, and we are losing a few hours of discussion and bickering about whether it is okay or not. It is obvious that the legal basis for the adoption of this law is quite thin, but I will not enter into that matter this time, it is the Legislative Committee that has had to process in time, that the assembly majority in time secure the quorum, and that it will say whether this law meets the conditions to come into Parliament's procedure, and that it is not mandatory for the Parliament's president to make the Legislative Committee to declare any law really cannot justify why the Legislative Committee did not do so in time. I will talk about the real interest of the entire Southeast Serbia to continue the gasification process. I'm not going to get into it if it's supposed to be done sooner, I'm sure it is. Why not? The answer to that question is likely to be given by many ministers, many officials in many previous governments, from 90 to more. You said here in explaining this law that the interest of the municipalities of Southeastern Serbia is to get gas as soon as possible because this would also mean more interest for investors in the area, for investing in the area, and would mean cheaper energy for both the population and for the economy and for the warmth of cities. Probably the job of gassing all of Southeast Serbia should be left behind, or so it should be, for companies registered in the area. It would be another incentive to improve people's living standards in this most underdeveloped part of Serbia. As for investment and investment, unfortunately, since this government was formed in this country, investments have fallen significantly, so unlike 2007 and 2006, when we had four or five billion direct foreign investments, it predicts that this year there will be about five hundred million and very few chances of that figure being crossed. This is an obvious and clear enough indicator of the ability of the entire government, the entire ruling coalition, to make the country of Serbia more attractive to foreign investment, above all, but also domestic. Enough evidence for this is the exposure of the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who said the other day at the Economist Forum that our gross social product will be 1.5% higher next year. Unlike this year, when the real fall will be 5% and possibly 6%, I'll remind you that for the previous year the growth of the gross social product was 6.5%, so when you compare the growth and the fall comes to a real fall of 11.5%. I have no intention of believing what Mr Cvetkovic said, but I would simply like to comment on his call to investors to invest in Serbia, because it is an attractive area, because there are lower taxes, greater opportunities for profit, and in the same day in this parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic, in charge of the economic development of this country, and we know what economic development is in recent years, since he is the minister of this development, says that the strong procedures that apply to obtaining construction permits have put Serbia in the last place at the speed of obtaining building permits. Then the logical question is, how are we going to convince these powerful investors who are barging at our door to build in Serbia, if we are at the speed of giving permission last in the world? There are many examples of that. And such a bill, which opens the controversy whether it is constitutional or not, is in accordance with other laws, primarily the Expropriation Act, or not, is another indication that even the good intention of "Yugorosgas", or, if you want, the majority owner or the Russian state, to invest money in the gasification of Southeastern Serbia, since it is obvious that this state, we have seen this for the past ten or 15 years, has not enough of its money to invest in the gasification of Serbia, nor is this foreign investor's good intention being able to implement in one quality and fast way, without having a controversy, to waste time on whether it is necessary to carry out that gasification. Because obviously, this bill has a flaw or, rather speaking, the legal basis for its adoption is very thin. In any case, I welcome the proposing's intention to get out of this situation and to enable the gasification of the entire southern Serbia, as it will likely help to revive investment there and increase living standards. As for the price of energy, which is also mentioned in your explanation, only a brief comment – last October the price of gas increased by 60% and now the price for households is about 34 or 35 dinars. Then it is justly high energy prices on the world market. Since Serbia is an import-dependent country, it is in some way logical, but if it is taken into account that the price of gas was $435, at one point $4455 per thousand, it can be accepted that an increase to 34 dinars is justified, but it cannot be accepted that the price has been current for a year, although the price of gas has dropped drastically, and now amounts to about $275 or 280, and it has been 220. If you recalculate the difference between the import price and the retail price, it comes to around 1:1 or double the retail price than the import price. The logical question arises – the fact is that "Srbigas" is a loser, that there are many debts and that as a firm, it operates negatively – if there is already such a difference between import prices and retail prices, where do huge price differences flow? Is this going to an over-sponsorship that "Srbigas" as a loser allows itself to give to sports clubs and other events? One piece of information is available to me: that "Serbigas" allocates hundreds of millions of dinars to finance the "Vojvodina" basketball club. I don't know if any funds have been given for any other purposes or other parts of Serbia, but I know this as information. Last year, in early this year, a lot of controversy in the public, especially in Nis and Southeast Serbia, prompted Mr. Bajatovic's statement that the pipeline "South Stream" would cross another route, rather than the one determined by the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, you were a guest in Nis, and you promised to make an effort to make a study of the feasibility and justification of the passage of the "South Stream" as soon as possible. I ask you at this point – how long has it been since some deadlines were bound to fall this year? The fall has gone far, so I'm interested in whether it's a study on the construction of the South Stream? How far did she get? Who's working it? Will it be an objective study? In what way is the institution or institution selected to make the study? All these issues related to "South Stream" are very interesting to us from Nis and Southeast Serbia. We've had opportunities to get a lot of promises in the past, and there's very little realisation. As for the other two legislative proposals, amending the Mining Law and pipeline transport, mining is one of the most important branches in each country, so it should also be in the country of Serbia. History says Serbia recorded its first major economic boom and progress at the time of the mine opening in the 12th and 13th centuries, during the rule of King Urosh and King Milutin, who can be considered initiators and founders of the mining industry in Serbia. Article 5 of this law provides that certain funds collected from mining fees are to be poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to establish a programme of incentives and investment in mining each year, as well as funds to eliminate the adverse consequences caused by exploitation in certain areas. However, this does not specify how much of the funds will be. Given experience from earlier years, when almost nothing or very little has been invested in mines in terms of encouraging research in new locations, improving mining technology, modernisation and the like, we of the Democratic Party of Serbia think it is necessary that these funds be more precise and more significant. In this situation, in general, we are afraid that all the funds that are collected in this way will go into consumption, as they go into consumption and all those assets that blend into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, including those that do not merge, which we take as loans from commercial banks and other countries to fill the gaps in the budget, because the government has no intention of reducing its own costs, has no intention of reducing its own ministries. He intends to live alone and ask everyone else to be thrifty. It is also provided for in Articles 8 and 9 that the exploitation permits in certain areas are to be obtained from the Ministry of Mining and Energy and that there is a certain procedure for doing so, with that procedure not to be the same for those entities being run as public undertakings or which are state-owned and those other than state-owned, i.e. private or majority-owned. In order to obtain permission to exploit these entities will have to go through a different, more complicated procedure and deliver evidence of the purchase of land or evidence of ownership of land. This, of course, will, in a situation such as Serbia, significantly slow down the process and lead to an unequal position of those companies and companies that want to, as a private one, pay of course their obligations to the state to exploit ore in a particular area. As for the law on pipeline transport, it is a technical law, which should regulate certain issues in the area of pipeline transport, primarily gasification and internal installations in households. What we have come across as something that is not logical is the fact that the sublaws and regulations to follow this legislative proposal and to allow its full application should be adopted, according to the proposal of this law, for two years, and that energy entities, i.e. companies engaged in the transport of oil, gas and transport monitoring should agree their business with this law within four or five years. We think it's too long. If it is an interest to have the largest number of households connected to the gas, if it is an interest that most of Serbia is being gassed and that the use of that energy is as safe as possible, then it is likely that it is logical and normal to force energy operators to comply with this law as soon as possible and to apply all security measures so as not to have unwanted effects. Anyway, as far as this law is concerned, it's more technical. We don't have any fundamental grudges on him. All in all, as a summary, I can say that we have the understanding to pass these laws. They will help to some extent and clarify some misunderstandings, but of course, there are many things that can be more precise and concrete. That's all I'm going to do is correct my colleague Mr. Pastor, who said that none of the MPs or MPs suggested introducing a bigger rent to exploit oil and gas. The DSS parliamentary group has proposed that the rent be not 3%, as foreseen by the law, but 5%, because we consider it to be a high-profit activity and that these funds should be partly allocated to the municipalities in which the exploitation is carried out, but that they are brought into the common fund, which would provide for environmental protection measures and the removal of the adverse consequences caused by exploitation. In any case, depending on the acceptance and non-acceptance of the amendments, our position will be visible in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29785	Thank you. Mr. Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we in the SRS do not doubt your sincere intentions, but given yesterday's and today's days, surely after this debate there will be bitter taste. It is obvious that yesterday you accepted to represent a law that was not agreed in advance for you to be in front of the government; your associates showed up at one point yesterday, so they later came out, but that (and today they are present, when discussing other laws) is not very important for this debate. These two draft laws, I think of the bill on the establishment of public interest for the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11 and the proposal for a law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, demonstrate the ineffectiveness of all governments from 5 October and 24 January 2001 to date. The criticisms and remarks I will make do not concern you as Peter Skundric, a university professor, but as a man representing a particular ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia. There are previous issues here, for which you do not carry full responsibility, but your former colleagues and government in general certainly do. But what to say, respected citizens of Serbia, when in the day to answer parliamentary questions, and the session is otherwise scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the prime minister says: "Yes, we will adopt the law on the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, and then, who is dissatisfied, let him complain to the Constitutional Court." Today, we had by the President of the Assembly – "The Parliament discusses and decides", thinking that it should be sent to the Members of Parliament to accept the debate, and then in the day for the vote we can make a different decision. I understood this as an invitation to the assembly majority MPs, who shouldn't be making any problems today, but in the voting day they can vote differently. Then the objective question is why would the session be held in the first place, so that in the end, the majority vote differently, when you always agree on it in advance? Perhaps the most important talk today was the proposal for a law on amendments to the Mining Act, but what was happening in the afternoon part of today’s session certainly opens up a special debate. Maybe at this point I shouldn't remind and point out what expropriation is, that today you, Mr. Minister, didn't say at one point – we had a different option, the government could determine the public interest and we didn't even have to propose this law to the Assembly. What were you going to do, test the MPs or make sure of the correctness of your proposal? We heard here today, and the grudges addressed to some owners or large companies that make a good profit. The SRS MPs have never been before, nor will the next period be against major profits, against successful businessmen and economic operators, but at least under two conditions: the first is that it is in accordance with the law and, secondly, not to use a special monopoly position on the market. Some things aren't well-defined here. Instead of looking forward, at least we from the SRS, our policy goal is to provide a better environment and owners of business entities and all citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether they go to elections and when they go to elections which political parties trust, that we look forward to this law on determining public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a masteral gas pipeline of MG-11... There are two reasons, but, in our opinion, quite serious and acceptable: the first, which is being expropriated on behalf of a Russian firm, a Russian entity and, second, because the citizens of southern Serbia will get something they have not had so far, especially we need to remember the problem of last year, related to gas supply. You allowed it – I do not see your great responsibility, Mr. Minister, before today, today you may have been able to react differently – that an ugly shadow falls on that proposal. You don't have to know this either, but fellow MPs sitting here today know that on 18 March this year we adopted, that you voted in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Expropriation Act and that the MP, Mr Zoran Krasic, did not say as usual, foresee a certain problem and that we then had a statement from the Government's representative, at that time of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Then why were we passing that law if we didn't remove this? First of all, we advocate respect for the law. You know, public interest exists many times, but we can't, if there's something planned under the current legal system of the Serbian state, we can't be against it, regardless of the interest. We could hear something here today that didn't really matter, but we're gonna make a difference. We always have to stick to the letter of the law. Because, how do you government gentlemen expect the local administration or the president of the municipalities to respect the law on restrictions on the number of employees, if you do not respect those laws passed by this assembly? You have found the mechanism here, and the mechanism is the transfer of funds and you will thus punish those who do not comply, but with your austerity measures, rationalization and all others we have come to the position that citizens in Serbia are becoming harder and harder to live. Mr. Minister, I said there's a responsibility here for all governments, including the one you're in, whose member you are. This law was passed in 1996; today it is 2009. What has happened since 2001, which is why this has not been on the agenda so far, and to complete the procedure for this – today provided funds, as you said, let's now go to the physical realization of this project, i.e. to implement this law. But, no, we do ad hoc, from case to case, or when we provide good interest in Serbs. Someone here said - I don't represent the Russian interest, I don't even know whose interest I am. Apparently he's not representing, representing his own interest. It doesn't have much to do with you, but you have to fight for this to never happen again. When I said expropriation, I have to tell you that some citizens in Serbia experience expropriation almost as much as forced land seizure, because there were abuses, and expropriation is, of course, a forced confiscation with a certain fair and market fee. It's a little unclear how 166 kilometers of the master's pipeline, and it's only to be expropriated to 0.5 hectares. There's a complete, there's a partial, you're probably thinking of the partial one. I'd like to ask you here, if I don't, but on behalf of these citizens and owners of property and land to be expropriated... And if it's temporary and incomplete, it can last for up to three years. It is not always necessary to use this legal maximum, but rather to complete certain activities in a shorter period of time. At least it's easy for you, Mr. Minister – call Mrka, he ends it before the deadline, and then we will help our citizens in the southern part of Serbia to suffer as little damage as possible. Of course, the Constitution here was explicit and very clear and said it was guaranteed the right to real estate. Let's not remind ourselves now of what's in motion, but it's a right to property and freedom of citizens. He said that only in two cases can be taken or taken away: in the event of expropriation, where there is a public interest, and in the case of settlement of obligations on the basis of tax duties. This isn't the case, it's each other. When we send a message to our partners, when we send a message to other governments as much as we need to implement a certain agreement, and this is about the 1996 agreement, then we send a very bad, negative message about the willingness and ability of any government so far, and especially since 2000, that we are not ready, because we are only making a declaration – we have opened the door, we want foreign capital to come, we want to get through the economic crisis more effectively. It's possible, if there's foreign investment, but when people see how long it takes to complete the realization, they give up. I don't want to talk this time, which is what one of my colleagues is going to say, about the percentages taken to provide certain permits for the realization of certain projects. It's something I don't want to talk about. The same situation is similar with this proposal to the law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity. No one here is invited to invest anything, but we need a lot of time to do certain things. Let's not get into it right now, we'll talk about it the least. In Article 5. The draft law establishing public interest in expropriation says this law will take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". As a lawyer, I have to intervene in a certain way, because Article 196 is paragraph 4. The Constitution provided for a way of publication and entry into force. True, it's been said that in certain cases... The general deadline for entry into force is eight days from the day of publication. It is also predicted that it may be shorter, but if 13 years have passed since the adoption of the Agreement to this day, I see no serious reason to break that principle. Although reluctantly, I will call on, for example, the very kind words of one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly “the rules cannot be objected to. ” Let's just be consistent, respect the legal provisions that they say when certain legal regulations come into force. Special attention should also be paid to the law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. And you, Minister, like me, everyone in Serbia when they want to say that something is difficult, as his profession is difficult, he says -- I work as a miner, or a mining business; we call on it. You have to understand, even though our attitude towards these amendments to the law is quite negative, that we are not against the amendment and addition of the Mining Act, changes are necessary, but I'm afraid... What you have stated in the light of this law, yes, it stands; that is what you may have seen, but you should not forget other things. What are these changes and additions proposed for? What it says in the explanation, that's your attitude. If we didn't look a little deeper, if we didn't remember what this government was willing to do so far, then we could say, yes, that's fine. But given the fees that you've anticipated, and I'm going to comment and compare them with the countries in the environment, I guess it's natural, to look at it so little, I'm not sure that the goal is what you're saying in the explanation, but it seems to me, the credit duties that this government has been doing so far, and in the name of patching the hole in the budget. I must remind you that the Russian loan is about 350,000 euros. These are all loans that are to be taken or to be realised during this year, and for patching, as our people would say, a hole in the 2009 budget: World Bank - 140,000,000 euros, the European Union - 200,000 euros, commercial loans were taken approximately two or three months ago (Alpha Bank, Vojvodina Bank and Pireus Bank) and amounting to around 90,000,000 euros, totaling 780,00,000 euros. If it is noted that the Ministry of Finance is broadcasting state records through the Treasury Authority that also serve to fill the state register, that is 500,000 or so, then it is easy to calculate that it is 1,280,000,000 euros. Then me and the SRS Group think that reducing the fee on mineral exploitation opens up appetites among those who are interested in buying ore wealth, i.e. exploitation and investigative rights, because they see very easy and fast profits. Mine treasures and wealth, which are basically exploited from the ground, I feel like a human inside. When a man comes into a situation to sell his organs, then it indicates that it's not very good, that this country is not being run properly. What is our situation in mining in Serbia? It is mainly reduced to the production of coal, copper ore, lead, zinc, oil, gas, as well as the most widespread raw materials for the production of construction materials. Coal production takes place on the co-ops of Kolubara and Kostolac, the Kovin mine and in mines with underground coal exploitation within the public underground coal exploitation company in Resavica. The production of coal, lignite on the coves of Kolubara and Kostolac is the most significant in terms of the country's energy stability, as it represents around 97% of coal exploitation. When it comes to compensation, we have several different percentages and amounts: for non-metallic raw materials to obtain construction material (laporac, krečnjak, clay, sand, gravel, technical-building and architectural-building stone) – here you said that it is determined in dinar amount per tonne of dug mineral raw materials. It is completely inaccurate and unacceptable from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party. In the next position, you said the government was making a decision about it. I don't think that's right, especially given that almost every municipality has such or similar, let's call them mines and that should be defined in another way. You took care of the types of minerals, but you didn't take care of destinations, locations. It's not the same if it's exploited in underdeveloped and developed municipalities. We cannot accept this possibility of privatising mines, or exploiting mineral raw materials, where now next to a legal person (time does not allow me to comment a little more) is introduced by the entrepreneur. I still have to get you back to talking about mines here; it's one serious business activity and entrepreneurs... Unless it is not possible that they become those who have already bought and privatised more than half of Serbia. Then it's something else, if that's what you're up to. I don't believe you're such a man, but nothing needs to be ruled out. You also know those who have read this law know what the fees for exploitation are provided in our bill, and I just have to remind you what it looks like in the environment, as I said I would. Mining taxes (the mining) vary worldwide and depend on tax policy, but say Republika Srpska 3.3 - 4%; Federation of BiH 2 - 4%; Croatia - before 2.6% by 2008, is now 6% mineral water, 7.5% gravel, 9% architectural stone and 10% oil. In Russia, it is about 4% for coal, 5.5% for radioactive raw materials, 6% for non-metallics, 7.5% mineral water, 8% for boxing and 17.5% for oil and gas. In Canada, it's from 10 per cent to 18 per cent. Then the question arises whether we are a country where mineral wealth is unlimited or too rich. The answer is neither. In particular, it should be borne in mind that mineral resources are not renewable resources. True, we are not modest in Serbia. In particular, we should be mindful and resentful, Mr. Minister, which is not one word in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law that does not see or mention, and you know that there are hundreds of millions of lignite reserves in the area of Kosovo and Metohija... (President: Mr. Perry, will you bring the end? Just one more sentence to finish the thought. If we voted in favour of the Constitution, if we accepted that preamble, then we must also in the legal proposals that are coming here to say that we will always unreservedly safeguard the territory of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29787	Thank you. Does Mrs. Branka Karavidic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29788	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government and fellow MPs, since I come from Majdanpek, I would like to dedicate most of my presentation to these amendments and additions to the Mining Act. We notice some good things in this law where in a more precise way, conditions of exploitation of the mineral treasure are regulated, where mining development is encouraged, where the harmful consequences resulting from the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the closure of mines are prevented and eliminated. This law will also allow for more efficient fees for the use of mineral raw materials, which is extremely important when it comes to local environments in which mines are located. This proposal to amend the Law will allow for a more complete control of the business of enterprises carrying out this activity and issuing mining licences by the Ministry. The sanctions for exploiting contrary to the laws on mining will be tightened. Changes are proposed to allow all economic operators to operate on an equal footing and to ensure protection of all forms of property, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. New bases have also been set to determine the amount and method of payment of compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. It should highlight the reduction in the fee from 4% to 1% of the revenue for the exploitation of raw materials resulting from the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials. By giving up part of the total revenue from the exploitation of techno-geared raw materials, the countries are stimulating potential investors, and a very problematic issue of flotation gaps would also be resolved, which would ultimately contribute to the improvement of the environment. For good reason, there was a difference in the amount of compensation in terms of surface and underground coal exploitation, given the weight and additional costs associated with underground coal exploitation. The proposal to amend this law proposes that the Government adopt a programme laying down the conditions and means of using the means to encourage the development of mining and, most importantly, the programme would prescribe measures to eliminate the harmful consequences of the mining that no one has ever taken into account. The paper established by this bill is an obligation for companies to regularly submit annual business reports, on the basis of which to monitor the realisation of mining works and thus to control charges for the use of mineral raw materials. It is proposed that public enterprises must work a special programme before the mine is closed, to which the government gives its consent. In this way, social and environmental issues related to the permanent suspension of work in mines would be addressed, and this would directly refer to the environments in which mines are located. Given that mineral raw materials are expendable and that this must occur, i.e. the closure of mines, it is necessary and planned to access the impacts that the closure of mines can have on society and on the community at all. Funds for the implementation of the programme shall be provided from the Republic budget and additional sources. The issue of health security at work is also being regulated, and this is in line with other applicable laws. Some criminal provisions are in line with the amendments to the law, and new points are added to extend cases where the company is considered to have committed an economic violation. It also introduces a violation of the responsibility of entrepreneurs. I would take advantage of the opportunity and partly focus my discussion on the previous law, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which was adopted in 2006. Thus, by adopting that law, it ceased to apply, after a year's expiry, the Law on Payments or on the direction of funds for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and the production of oil and gas. Given that previous amendments to the Mining Act have ceased to apply, I think that amendments to the Mining Act, which are currently on the agenda, are an opportunity to return to local administrations the abolished fees, which would allow them to function more easily in this difficult time, in the time of the economic crisis. The provisions of this law, now invalid, laid down the obligations of companies carrying out the production of electricity, the surface exploitation of coal and the production of oil and gas towards the environments of which they are located. The amount of compensation depended on production, for example, kilowatt-hours when it comes to electricity generation, either in hydropower plants or in thermal power plants; it depended on the production of a ton of coal on the surface spear for the purposes of thermal power plants, and also on the revenue achieved by selling oil and gas. I note that this compensation has been used since 1990 by more than 30 municipalities in Serbia. The funds resulting from the compensation were used to finance and build facilities and carry out works to prevent and eliminate the harmful consequences of the works carried out in the construction of hydropower plants, thermal power plants or the opening of exploitation fields and the adverse consequences of using them. The funds were directed to municipalities whose territory was exploiting goods. In particular, when it comes to the area from which I come, it is a Borski district, of four municipalities, three municipalities were users of so-called rents. I apologize for going back a little bit, but in 1991 it was founded so-called. The rent fund was then opened a special account of the fund to which the Đerdap hydropower plant paid compensation to these municipalities. The agreement on the distribution of water charges in the production of electricity at the Đerdap hydropower plant of the signatories of the agreement (including my municipality), means Kladovo, Majdanpek, Golubac, Grocka, White Church, established participants and the distribution of land-based compensation, according to the type of land, depending on whether it is agricultural. Of course, the case of Donji Milanovac was also taken into account, where a whole village was moved several kilometers downriver. Then the Municipality of Majdanpek lost 860 acres of its surface. Of course, this isn't the data I invented, it's the data of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Majdanpek Catastre Office. The largest damage in my municipality was suffered by the settlement Donji Milanovac – 61% of its area was covered by this. In order to illustrate the loss that our municipality has suffered since 2007, I will present only a few figures: for example, for 2005, when the budget of the Majdanpek municipality was 227.000,000, from the funds of the Majdanpek municipality received 18.630,000 dinars. For 2004, of the 121,000,000 dinars in the rent budget was 8,549,000. It should be noted that the rental funds were used exclusively for the needs of local communities which were territorially or in any other way damaged by the construction of the Đerdap hydropower plant. They were used to resuscitate the rinks, to build the necessary infrastructure, for water, sewerage, local roads, etc. From all the above, it can be concluded that this fee was for once a rich and advanced municipality such as Majdanpek, now devolved and poor, a significant source of income. The same problem lies with our neighbouring municipalities, which suffer the consequences of the termination of the law above. All our local administrations in the environment have reacted. We have reacted in different ways: some have asked for an increase in compensation transfer; some have launched an initiative to amend the Mining Act by making such a decision at their local congregations; some have initiated the adoption of a special law that would cover other types of compensation granted. The amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which are now on the agenda, are an opportunity to regulate this issue by accepting amendments, to the satisfaction of more than 30 local administrations in Serbia. I will not repeat what my colleague Stamenkovic said, that many local administrations have given support to this very amendment. However, in a conversation with the representatives of the Ministry of Industry, it was said that the problem of paying back rent is not the subject of this law. They referred us to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is currently running a water law. We were wondering each other if maybe the energy law would cover what I'm talking about right now. If this topic is not the subject that regulates this law, I suppose, and I am almost certain that the representatives of the Ministry will help us to realise the initiative of the MEPs from the Group of ZES (and there are other parliamentary groups) to find the right address and to push our initiative into the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29789	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29790	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened very carefully and will continue to listen to your statements, remarks, suggestions and suggestions regarding the legislative proposals on the agenda today. I accept that we can have different views on individual solutions, which is also normal given the positions we are taking at the moment, but I can't accept one part where something is supposed to happen in relation to the legislative projects that are on the agenda, and that neither the legislator nor the Ministry nor the Government had thought of thinking or working in that direction. I share, indeed, Mr. Zankov's concerns, Mr. Peric and others regarding the position of our miners, especially in the underground exploitation of coal, but I must tell you that this government has provided the necessary subsidies for underground coal exploitation this year, that this ministry has provided to solve the problem of health books, and that this ministry for the new budget has proposed a greater allocation for underground coal exploitation than it was in the budget for the current year. These are evidence that neither the Ministry nor the Government want to question the existence of underground coal exploitation, but that they want certain measures to improve production and that, if conditions are created, they will carry out restructuring that will enable, on the one hand, economic production, and on the other hand, more normal conditions for the work of our miners and better life of the miners and the environments in which they live and work. In that direction, this ministry has taken steps and is close to a solution, for example. to solve the issue of Stavlja by entering into the construction of a 250 or 300 megawatt thermoblock and allowing normal exploitation from that location. On the other hand, we have an initiative that the Morava Termoelectrica and Resavica constitute a unique mining and energy system and to ensure that a partner together with the state performs restructuring and enables normal and efficient business of underground coal exploitation in general. That's why I'd like to tell the miners that there is no provision in the legal project that raises their position in terms of what is said to be the fear of closing these mines. On the contrary, we are doing everything we can to seek your support through these projects to intensify certain projects and to overcome certain problems, even certain delays that were present, too. Mr. Lapcevic drew attention to the fact that investment procedures are smaller than they were. I just want to talk about the area of resources that I represent. I can tell you that in the last 30 years, such an investment cycle has not been started as it has started in the past year in the field of energy, both through the decisions made and through the beginning of the realization of certain projects. You know that in 2003, for example, was signed a revitalising contract with the Russian company "Silovie Machine", that it was up to a year ago, that we managed to get it back on the agenda, sign a new one, so-called. Annex eight contracts and start revitalising Gerdapa. We will raise capacity for 162 megawatts of new power and extend the century to the most important hydropower plant in Serbia for the next 30 or 40 years. We started the reconstruction "Bajina Basta". The reconstruction of the hydropower plant "Medjuvršje" and "Ovčar Banje" is completed. We will sign an agreement with the Government of Italy on investments in a thousand megawatts of power in the field of clean energy production in Serbia, which will be exported to Italy at special prices. I can list a lot more investment procedures that are under way, or it'll start soon. When it comes to gasification, it was planned to build a 1,350km pipeline network in Serbia. The ministry carried out a review of these plans and concluded that 2,000km of gas pipelines in Serbia needed to be built. By establishing the public interest that we are talking about today, we would create an opportunity to immediately implement a natural gas pipeline project with a length of 166 kilometers. I promise you that in a month we will also begin an investment procedure on the direction of Alexandrovac - Brus - Kopalnik - Novi Pazar, Novi Pazar - Tutin. It is, if both Raška and Leposavic are involved, about 111km of gas network. Only these two routes will be about 20% of the planned procedures in Serbia's gasification. The end of the first phase of the construction of the underground gas storage plant is being completed, where over 200 million normal cubic metres of gas are being printed, where the two-way gas pipeline Gojdinci - Banatski Dvor, which should ensure the possibility of increased use of stored gas in Banatski Dvor between three and five million tonnes of normal cubic metres of gas, has been possible only about half a million so far. It says we're getting much more prepared in this winter than this kind of energy. It is true that we increased the price of gas on October 15th last year by 60%, but it is true that the price of gas on the world market then increased by 110%. It is true that by then we have not changed the price of gas for more than a year or two years. As I said last time, it is also true that industrial consumers were given a lower price of gas at that time. I would like to inform you that qualified consumers in the district heating system chain have now received about 10% lower prices, according to the tariff system and the regulation. I expect that from January 1st we will probably go with a lower price of gas at all. It is true that the price of gas is now lower on the European or world market, but it is also true that the transport price is almost doubled because we had less gas withdrawal than was planned. When it comes to the execution of permanent land expropriation, I agree with you that it's equally important every square meter. I was talking about the size that refers to permanent expropriation, and I was saying that it's mostly about major divorce nodes, which covers the area of 50 times 50 square meters or about 10 times 10. There's usually no bigger surface than these. I agree that private property is undecided and should be undecided, but this assembly declares public interest and it creates conditions that depend on whether part of the energy infrastructure can be realised or not. Here is the pipeline, second place will be high voltage, connected to power grids, third place will be the pipeline, etc. We do and we should do as other European countries or EU countries do. Therefore, we are trying to do certain procedures that need to increase the employment of domestic enterprises, which we need through investments in energy to enable many businesses from various sectors to work a lot, and therefore we are asking you to establish certain legal projects. It is true that prices of fees for the use of mineral raw materials are somewhat lower than prices in the environment. We looked for them to be about the same, but we went with slightly lower prices. Why? Because we wanted to provide an opportunity and fix the picture, so that all those who really want to invest in this area in our country would do it now, because time is doing it. Non-investment over 50 years, for example, in the Drina hydropotential, has taken millions and millions of euros, dollars or dinars, whatever you want. I think we have the opportunity to take some of our resources seriously. I expect not only to revitalize, for example, Kostolac, but to turn millions of tons of clay into a quality brick, a quality brick. I also hope that this project will be used quickly. It is therefore important that this price is tempting for a future investor who will come to do so. I also expect that by resolving the issue of segregation at the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant, we will allow the use of 15 million tonnes of ash (or 30 million tonnes, when we solve both blocks) in the cement industry, construction or other areas. So I'm asking you to understand the legal projects we've submitted. I appreciate that you can have a different approach. I respect, normally, that opposition MPs are seriously criticising every proposal, but please, when it comes to "Yugorosgas", it is not about the Russian company. It's a Serbian majority-owned company, with majority Russian capital. It works under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, registered in Serbia, and we can appreciate whether it works the way other companies do. Therefore, this is not about me standing up for a company; I advocate that this profit that some company, any company, in our country, is being invested in projects in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29791	Thank you. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic has a replica, and then Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29792	Madam President, Mr. Minister, this is the only way I can speak to you through a replica, because I recognized myself in one part of your exposure. We're going back to the story from the beginning. You're right when you say the opposition should criticise these legal projects, and that's how you generalized it. I believe you've had in mind that the SRS has since the beginning wanted close co-operation with the Russian Federation, the arrival of their capital in our country and the construction of a master's pipeline. But if we're not at the end of this part of the debate right now, probably the president will tell you, we'll be able to contact the citizens in a delayed transmission only after midnight, because we're only 25 minutes in direct TV transmission... Today, we have been insisting for almost an hour and a half on respecting the procedure, and it concerns constitutionality and legality. In fact, and later, when we looked again at Article 8 of the Basic Expansion Act, we found that according to this law (and you said that the one who suggests Lex specialis versus him) the circle of users cannot be spread. I just need to give you an example. Now you've said quite nicely that you're aware that absolutely every inch of the country is incomparable and that no one can, in any way, take it from someone. Remember, here is what Mr Batić knows, who will now use his five minutes – seventy-seven years, I can't remember which, in Italy, the government fell because of the fact that Fjumicino Airport, or part of the runway, wanted to expand, and the owner of the land did not want to give it to them. They also wanted to react to a particular Lex specialise, which was later assessed by the constitutional court as unconstitutional and therefore the Italian government resigned. We're not looking for it, but in order not to get into a situation to get to the Constitutional Court, the most normal thing would be to have this procedure: the Legislative Committee to plead, then let's see what possibly the Government can fix to bring this bill in line with Article 85. The Constitution of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29793	Mr. Ostojić is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29794	Article 104. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, do not insult the common sense of the Members of Parliament and of the citizens who are watching us. You say that Jugorosgas is not a foreign company, a Russian company, and three quarters is not the property of Serbia. To the side that you go over how Serbia lost a quarter of the company, from half to a quarter. When you say it's a Serbian company, since it's in Serbia, it's not Russian and property has nothing to do with the adjective Russian, it's the same as saying that your apartment, whose apartment you own, is actually my apartment, because the apartment is in Serbia, what does it matter who owns it? Well, it does, sir, because whoever owns it runs the company. That company is an intermediary, that company had a profit of 20 million last year, and only for a quarter of that money could have been half ours, so that didn't happen. In just one year, investment in that quarter would be worth it. If we had paid four million euros then, $4,800,000, we'd have another quarter, i.e. Half. A quarter of the profits are five million. So, in a year's time. Don't insult us. Say it - that's right, it's an interstate agreement, unchangeable etc. I'll tell you right now, no European country gives property to anyone who sells goods, electricity, or in this case gas or oil, and it comes from Russia. That's why we were against that 51-49 contract. Nowhere in Bulgaria or Greece, there is no such percentage. The seller can't control the transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29795	It's been two minutes. Thank you, sir. I'll stay. Mr. Vladan Batic is using the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29796	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister... Mr. Batic, you have your word, please. Give me back my time. I have a replica... If you could just give me my time back. I was mentioned by Mrs Natasa Jovanovic. I have to say, he's right. I think from the point of view of the Constitution there is a lack of this provision of expropriation and that it should not have been on the agenda, that it does not fall out – we have been painting for free. On the other hand, as an MP coming from Obrenovac municipality where the largest energy giant in this country, the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant, I have a replica of what Mr. Minister said. Mr. Skundric, when you mention that ash from the ashes of the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant will be used for some purpose, it looks like Andersen's fairy tales. That ash has turned Obrenovac municipality territory into the Sahara. When the wind blows, it's a desert storm. Do you know how many people of Obrenovac had respiratory disease last year? Twenty-two thousand, over 50% preschool kids. These are the effects of these ashes; one of 600 ha, one of 400 ha. It's a disaster. In the second place are the diseases of the urogenital tract - 8.287 diseases, in direct correlation with the pedological characteristics of the soil. The construction of two new thermal power plants is planned. That's nice, but, Mr. Minister, can you answer where and when the last thermopower plant was built in one country of Europe west of Serbia? It just doesn't exist, because it's dirty technology. We in Obrenovac have launched a campaign at DHSS level. People live there at the gas chamber level. We're asking for cheaper electricity, cheaper taxes for farmers, because they're poisoned and water, and land, and air. It's facts, it's notorous facts. There you have air pollution, soil pollution, water pollution; heavy metals, cadmium, chromium, nickel, vanadium, mercury, are in enormous quantities and above allowed values. The consequences are catastrophic. We want to live in a healthy environment. If not, those people who live like in a gas chamber have the right to some benefits, some privileges, some discounts. I guess that's why it's normal for them to pay cheaper electricity, cheaper heating, and farmers to pay less taxes. I see you're nodding, so you're confirming the DHSS campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29797	Bring the end. Thank you. Mr. Petar Skundric, Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29798	I think there's a need, the fact works, to answer what Mr. Batic said. Most of the time, when it comes to pollution, it all stands. However, I would like to reply to Mr Batic that Germany has decided to start building four coal thermopower plants; that there are decisions from other European countries that also approach such or similar projects and many want to spend their resources, while they can, in connection with Kyoto decisions and agreements. That's one question. Secondly, I was talking about a moving project; I want, if you didn't know, to inform you that the B-2 thermoblock "Nikola Tesla" B is finished, in terms of sequestration, with the assistance of the European Commission and EPS investment. By June or September next year, a block of one, which is also 620 megawatts, is due to be completed. It is about a decontamination process that prevents pollution of land and water, allowing the use of deposited ash, which is deposited by certain technology and will no longer be diversified. I just wanted to point out some of the projects that are under way in the area covered by the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29799	Gentlemen, I would like to say that we will be in direct transmission by 18 hours, as the vice president has already informed, and the delayed transfer will be late tonight. From the representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ilic did not have a word, so please understand, but the violations of the Rules of Procedure have priority. First Mr. Lapcevic, then Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, and then I would ask Mr. Ilic to have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29800	Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, I understand your sympathy for Mr Batic, as he often helps you to vote, but Article 101 of Position 1 is unequivocal and says that when someone lists the name and last name of the MPs and misreads his presentation, that MP has the right to reply. I don't think you have that much amnesia that you haven't remembered that Mr. Secretary has been talking to me for at least five minutes and answering the questions and objections I had to the law. So I don't see why you didn't give me your word when I asked for a replica, so I'm asking you to give it to me now. (President: You've got the word and already you've been using for almost a minute. Go ahead, go ahead. No, I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll keep going. Mr. Minister, when I said there was no investment in this country, I didn't say there was no investment in energy. You're not a separate energy minister and you don't belong to any government? So the investment in the country stopped the moment this coalition was made, that's what the facts say. There were four and a half billion euros in investment last year; this year, your prime minister's advisers say, will hardly be around 500-600 million. So much for whether or not there are investments. I respect that you have launched an investment cycle in energy, but if you had made a little more effort as a government, it would probably have been more money in Serbia's budget and probably not 40 presidents of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, including at least 30, if not more, from the ruling coalition, to sign an appeal to the Ministry of Finance for the allocation of emergency funds to fill their budgets, because last year (and this year you will) have abolished grants from the budget, so they do not have as many as they had all years earlier. People don't have the means to pay their students a ride to school, they don't have the energy resources, they can't buy basic supplies for their homes without talking about vaccines or other things that are necessary. So, what's the fact, there's no investment in this country with your... Not specifically yours, but with your government, it will probably not be better for years, as long as you rule. (President: Time. ) We are also calling for you, as a member of the Government, as well as for the Ministry of Finance, to seriously consider these requirements and to allow the transfers of municipalities to function normally, as they are mainly the municipalities of southern and eastern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29801	Thank you. So, by respecting Article 93, I gave my word to the minister because the minister can contact at any moment, because he has an advantage over the others. The MP, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29802	I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to Article 113, which is that all those present are subject to a rule of conduct which is also related to Members of Parliament, meaning, in relation to Article 104, by which MPs are obliged to address each other, which means the Minister to us, with respect. I am experiencing a great disrespect that in this home we are all told that "Yugorosgas" is not a Russian but a Serbian company. Because of the public, as the Expropriation Act says in Article 8, to which we are calling, there are only companies with a certain percentage of state capital, foreign capital, etc. What is controversial about this law is just applying expropriation to a company that does not meet the conditions set out in Article 8. In order to allow expropriation, i.e. a public interest, the company must have majority state property. Mr. Minister, no one here had the need to take the law, compare it to the Constitution, you wrote it all in an explanation – that it was unconstitutional and that, why I insist, you are a member of Article 1 and Article 2. The Expropriation Act opposes each other, because Article 2 gives you the right to do so by decision, as Government, and the Constitution says that only by law and by the rules prescribed by this law. All companies are subject to the rules of this law. There are no domestic and foreign banks, but there are stock companies that have capital; very few with the stock stake here are mostly foreign. My intervention is of professional nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29803	Thank you. Mr. Secretary was talking about majority ownership, so I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Mr. Zoran Krasic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29804	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would ask you to warn Mr. Skundric that he is the minister and that he must speak the truth here. In his presentation, we heard beautiful desires for the future, not a shred of what our reality is, nor what the bill is. I have no problem at all, Mr. Skundric, with your wishes. I support you in your wishes. And the people made a mistake on October 5, 2000, so he believed in wishes. But, please, don't insult the elemental dignity of the people in this room. Mr. Lapcevic only read one piece of an appeal. This government will make a world record, it will unite power and opposition against itself. You are spoken against by people of power, from the locals, and on TV – fairy tales, beautiful. The first item of your set of laws is problematic, it must not be in the process. To justify that, you use the wrong argument and you're putting us in an awkward position to think about whether it's worth talking to at all. You don't have 126, people won't vote yes, especially for the first law. Not to mention the other one, which is so dilettantly written that it's a disgrace and a shame. I'm waiting for that debate, when I'm gonna get a little more than two minutes to tell you. Please have the basic respect that people in life have read at least two books or some newspaper texts. You know there's this energy mob in this country. He was also a polling committee and everyone objected, both Hamovic and Lazarevic, not to go in turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29805	Time. Thank you. Mr. Minister spoke with a highly cultured tone, respecting this tall home and all of us individually. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. () All right, the Assembly will make a statement on the injury in the voting day. Mr. Vladan Batic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29806	I also claim that Mr. Minister, perhaps by accident, did not tell the truth and thus hurt, at least my dignity. Mr. Minister, there was an idea to build a thermal power plant in Germany, but it gave up on that idea. It doesn't exist today. When we have finished the session, enter the site and you will see – because of the German public’s reaction there is no construction. There was an idea in the U.S. and it also gave up. What you said about the ash dumps, that might be futuristic. I'm talking about reality, it's tragic. Two months ago, the wind blew, it's like a solar eclipse, in the mouth of the "Nikola Tesla B" Termopower Plant. It's facts, and fairy tales are like that, so we hear it every day. There was a rumor that the ashes would be built by the Autodroms, that Shumaher and Alonzo would drive to the ashes of the Termo Power Plant, but that's not true. I allow the possibility of it being true in some distant future. Today, people living next to ashes in freezers have ashes, meat bags have ashes. It penetrates everywhere. It's a reality. Whether the future will be as bright as you claim, I don't know, reality is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29807	Mr. Batic, I'm sure there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you're unhappy...? You're not. You don't want the Assembly to plead. Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29808	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that this debate has been going on all day, one time that is not right. First of all, as far as the first point is concerned, whether or not it's a violation of the Constitution, we need to discuss it. I would not like the Constitutional Court to reject a law that is extremely important for Serbia. But I don't understand, Mr. Minister, where you think this pipeline you're talking about, from Nis south to the Macedonian border, include and join, and that it is a priority for the South Stream to reach Nis. What's the problem with the government now? The government is breaking the pipeline and talking about the pipeline's arm, and we don't know where the central pipeline should enter Serbia. When we were in the first negotiations with the Russians, it was agreed, since I took part in a mixed committee of two governments, that the gas would enter Nis and follow the Corridor 10 highways, because it is cheapest, that the short ones would follow the corridor because the road land was already ruled out and in the wide corridor. All normal states pass through the road corridor and optical cables and, of course, the pipeline and all that is necessary to pass, because it is an extremely wide corridor of highways. But now we're talking about some kind of expropriation, some company that needs to be given it. It's a state country. The state makes use of the pipeline. What's the problem? The highway is already a route that can be... And traffic are used in the event of a gas pipeline intervention. However, the variant mentioned these days about entering the gas at Zaječar, building, is also looking for a pathway and everything new to do. Why? To please someone, someone's vanity. That's gonna cost this Serbia a hell of a lot. You in the government need to make a deal. You can't play with Serbian citizens. I'm not attacking you, you're just fine. These projects of yours, we support them in part, it's a good reconstruction of the power plants and all that, but it can't come... Today, the breaking news – Nenad Canak has agreed with Mirko Cvetkovic and everything is settled. Who is Nenad Canak in Serbia? Who is Nenad Canak in this Serbian policy? Who are these people sitting here? The village of Nenad Canak and gave the green light and said – you accept my amendments, and they say – okay, let's go with the Statute of Vojvodina. It's an abnormal policy. It's true he's got a lot of problems. It is true that we have the energy of oil, gasoline, the most expensive in Europe. It's true that our excises are the largest. It is true that pensions and salaries are given out of these fuel excises, instead of making roads, and loans are taken to build roads. That's what you've been doing for years, Mr. Skundric. Countries in the environment... Germany stands out five times as much as the fuel tax for road construction, Croatia two and a half times, England five times, and we pay salaries, pensions, health care and everything else from the excise on fuel. That's why the fuel's expensive. Because all of this in health care is being satisfied, where the biggest investments were. It is true that credit lines for hydrothermia have now come, but it is also true that previous credit lines have gone to ski resorts by intervention of the finance minister, for which nonsense, for ski resorts that don't work today; and, mass health care, because the finance minister has forced health care. We're seeing the state of health we've been in lately. We listened to what happened here. He didn't give it up on purpose for energy, I remember it perfectly from the government's session. Energy requires investment. Well done, but you can't produce cheap electricity and give a lot of parts to that same Canca that collects points and destroys the Shumadi, where you leave completely destroyed areas where coal is extracted. Nothing's been reconstructed, restored, devastated areas are so large that it's chaos. Half of Shumadia was destroyed and attached to Belgrade, to Topola. Why? To dig ore and produce electricity. It's true what Batic says, that in Obrenovac and Lazarjevac people can't live normally. You also asked Ub to merge, join Belgrade, to milk it completely, as our people say in the language of the people, that part of the Forest, completely destroy it. There are no more people there, no more ornans, no more farmland. There's total chaos. It's been going on for years, and that's how it's gonna stay. It's like we're on the moon. You've seen, bar, plumbers, there's something that will destroy Serbia completely. The same is true of mining, the destroyed Bor. One city in eastern Serbia has been completely destroyed, Majdanpek. Now there's an ecological disaster, billions of people need to put it in order now. As it will take billions to bring both the Obrenovac and this whole part of the Shumadia that has been devastated into order. How and how do you solve this problem? People can't live on ash, and that's 100% true. The price of electricity bought to the social community; it always went on and on and on, and that's why part of the state was completely destroyed. Now that these regions are being built, when all this is being done and built, some are talking – we are being developed, we want to go to European regions. And what will those martyrs do where you have destroyed fields, oranics? They've lost water, they've lost everything, they've lost no more lives; they live in ashes, in chaos, in gunpowder, there's no roads, there's nothing. Why doesn't there be a dollar for that? It's all going to be... I repeat, the biggest charge of the budget is from the excises that come from the fuel, you know that, and that gives you salaries and pensions, and that's why this country, where the economy doesn't work at all, is artificially maintained. Imagine how little it's invested in agriculture and where else do we invest? Billions need to be invested in agriculture, back to normal. Not to talk about abandoned coal mines, not to talk about mines in my neighborhood; the Shumadi mine – picked up the magnesite, did everything, left the catacombs, melted people, children fell into catacombs 200-300 meters deep and no one can get them out. We pulled a man down two years ago with the help of a cop two days ago. It's all abandoned like it was a bombing, some kind of interplanetary war. It's all that's left, there's those poor mine baskets, there's those unfortunate machines, the GI what he was doing, the hillies, it's all in chaos. Half of Serbia has been destroyed, devastated, abandoned and forgotten. Then some will say, "We are developed." We give them cheap electricity, and we don't invest anything in this. Now we'll say, we're reconstructing the power plants. It's good and it has to be done, but I repeat, let's not destroy the environment, it's completely destroyed. Just take the question of Bora, how many billion now does Bora need to be solved and is that problem ever solved? They all dug and excavated, dug, deposited, and now they all ran away and left. Dinkic went out and said – I solve the problem. So let's get him out of here. He can't solve it. Whole cities, entire municipalities, entire settlements are destroyed, completely broken, etc. Not to mention the thermal power plant in Ub, which someone did, to force Ub to milk as much as possible towards Belgrade, Mr. Minister, made three municipalities three-ways, so we couldn't give a building permit and papers, because we had a referendum to declare the citizens of three municipalities: Ub, Obrenovac and Lykovac. The base of the plant is built exactly on three municipalities, so that everyone can benefit a little bit, and of course, those who live there will pay the most price and price. Therefore, it must be invested to restore all of this to its proper condition. It's nice that you're digging ore, but go to the nettles and see what the situation is today. It is something that cannot be explained, why this country has allowed such spaces to exist in Serbia. Not to mention that all of this happened throughout Serbia, where coal mines were abandoned, left behind; other equipment, everything else in one misery, spears, windows abandoned, etc. This should all be in order, Mr. Minister. There's never been any money for that. Why? Because the finance minister and the people who control the finances of this state and the National Bank spent nine years investing where they would never return. Do any of you in the government talk about the Old Mountain? I listened to the story of billions of euros coming there. And during your rule, Milosevic, how much has been invested in that area around Bor... There are some castles that are abandoned today, billions invested, which rot on the mountain and fail, where no one comes. Remember that big resort that was built near Bora, above the lake, where billions were invested? It's all abandoned and left behind. It's just that no one is responsible for this situation. I repeat, why is the excise duty, gentlemen, a little invested in the travel industry? Credits are taken, the EU only gives credits for corridors, roads; this is easy to obtain and is therefore taken. We're a country that only gave 5% of the excises until last year. Do you know how much the English stand out - 50% of the excises a year and we're only 5%. That's why these losses occurred in "Serbia's Ways", because Dinkic calculated that 5%, and it took 20%, was the deal, so he said -- one year, two days, and then the other projects, other plans, works, and the funds were spent on pensions, for health care, where he invested in a senseless manner. Now that I'm listening to this on TV... We're sick of watching how much we've invested here, and you see today, we've got the flu. What's this about? We don't know if we have a vaccine or a vaccine or anything, or how much imported, good, bad, nothing. Tomica comes out and says, "There's no room for panic." Guys, are you out of your mind? Sit down and see what you want. So, how much did we invest in health care? How can a clinical center that has been reconstructed be set on fire, where are all new installations? It's a game with this people, and that's why I repeat -- the whole of it will be paid for by travel, construction and agriculture, because it's dragged where it shouldn't be invested and where it can't ever come back. It was thrown in a hole with no bottom. What about the Divchibar ski resort? What about the ski resort on Tornik? What about that ski resort over at Jagodina's? What about the Stara Planina ski resort? What was that? It was modern, the German came, giving good commissions, and just yelling – buy the cablers, and we poor, all we have are only cablers. The whole of Europe will ski in Serbia. Guys, what's this about? Ask the gentleman. However, I do not see him, he must never come here to ask him – what does he do and what does he do? If it was so much invested in energy, in agriculture, where would we end today? In the roads, in anything? Then we wonder why there's no corridor, why there's no corridor. I repeat, remind the government's gentleman that the Space Plan of Serbia has said that travel corridors are being monitored. Why is it necessary now to expropriate if we have a wide road corridor full of profiles, where can a gas pipeline be drawn? All the countries are doing it. Everywhere in the world, it's done: optical cables, electrical installations, everything goes. "Telecom" asked him to pass too; everyone can pass through and everything can be satisfied and there are no ex post costs. We should now give the funds to Jugorosgas, and we know who's there. Some of our tycoons have been there for years. When you amputate those tycoons who have mastered energy for years, I will trust you. They participate in gas imports, electricity exports, electricity imports. We have imported and exported the same year; it has been so for 20 years. They had a commission, and they took out the embroidery, and then they took off the commission, and they put themselves in the gas, and they built in wherever they came. Now, all millionaires, billionaires, have bought thousands of hectares across the Vojvodina, across Serbia. Here, if you've been listening to the news today, the most expensive yachts in Europe have been bought by our tycoons. I don't know if you've been listening, the most expensive yachts purchased in Europe have been bought by Serbs and located on the Croatian coast. Who likes to go there most? One of our finance ministers and his buddy, they're always there. Mr. Labus loved to go there, go, use, travel, etc. So, scribble, Mr. Minister, spoil it all. Take the order, if you can. It's nice to reconstruct this; Gerdap has to be reconstructed, because it's going to fall apart and go all down the Danube, no more, it can't. Even Baj's Garden can't work, it has to be reconstructed. These projects were done long ago, but Serbia's credit abilities were low because the loans were spent on these things I was just talking about. How many years have you been building a Clinical Center? MPs, let's go visit the Clinical Center once, see if it's finally done there. Nothing's been done. Maybe some equipment was bought, something painted. I was lying in the best suite, and do you know what it looks like? My comrades, when they came to visit me, say, on the barrel, the white tiles, the small, the fourth, the two meters, on the barrels they were before the war. That's what some rooms and our famous apartments look like. Therefore, you work, we will support if we see order being introduced, and we need to criticise what is wrong, don't be angry. Sadness grips me when I go to Obrenovac, when I go to the region of Lazarets, such good villages, fertile land, peasants lose water because of the depth of the spears, they have no will to live. They've all forgotten them. They live like in the Middle Ages: in the mud, in the accident, in the bars, with frogs, only more crocodiles, which is not there, but a snake, a lizard, so it's a disaster! Mr. Minister, at least let the little machines line up, put it in order. It's the anger it looks like. Everyone says - we'll use electricity, and then we'll say - we're a developed area, we're looking for other privileges, some other investments, and we'll exploit them until they're all disintegrated. Then that part of the forest will remain completely empty, completely destroyed for centuries, like Bor was completely destroyed. There's no one in the world... I know they were international tenders, donors coming in, companies coming in, everybody saying this isn't normal, there's nowhere in the world like Bor. Those poor people who live there... I went there, I tried to help them, but there's no help. They need billions. There should be some big credit lines to settle that, to allow people to live. It's true what Batic is saying. We go, we sit in Obrenovac, in five minutes, while you have lunch outside on the terrace, the ashes start, just pinching under your teeth. It's impossible. Can't those filters be bought? Can't you do that? Here, now we have cementers, you started in Koserić, Beocino. This government allowed, and went to win, in Koserić to burn tires; Europe, like, is driving. If that were good, would Europe give us free tires to bring us in to burn? And it pays us for poisoning the purest parts of Serbia, which are our beautiful Divcibara, Koseric and that part. No wonder we say now that the people are weak immunity. Look where the flu is -- well, in those parts, in the pleasure area, where we've completely broken... Of course, Požega and this part of Serbia down there... Why? I can't have kids defending themselves. I would ask the Minister of Ecology to let go of this collection of bottles and bags in Serbia and to deal with serious environmental problems, which mean life for Serbia, and not with such actions – we kill the board and collect bottles, we pick up the bottle truck, we show the report on RTS, and everything is fine. Go, Minister Dulic, and look how it is in Lazarevec, look at those beautiful villages, what they look like and how they failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29809	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, NS, ZES, LDP, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give my word to Mr. Zoran Bortic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29810	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, when it comes to the protection of public interest, the state of Serbia should take all measures that are in the jurisdiction of its authorities and institutions to protect that interest. It is known that Serbia is a legal follower and heir to the international legal entity of the former state, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. With its constitution, Serbia has taken the obligation to accept and ratify all international agreements and other obligations that the SRJ has accepted during its existence. In that sense, Article 194(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been clearly established that international agreements and generalised rules of international law are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and that the confirmed international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution. This obliges the Republic of Serbia to implement the provisions of the Agreement between the Federal Government of the SRJ and the Government of the Russian Federation on the construction of gas pipelines on the territory of the SRJ. Construction of the MG-11 master gas pipeline and related gas pipelines with accompanying facilities, including the installation of an optical cable for telemetry, control and remote management of the gas system, will provide natural gas supply to southern Serbia and functional connections through connection stations for all municipal centres. This will boost the economic development of this region and the more even development of the Republic of Serbia in general. Starting from Article 2 of the existing Expropriation Act, which provides that the public interest in the expropriation of immovableity is determined by law or by the Government's decision, and given that "Yugorosgas" AD does not meet the conditions set out in Article 8. The Expropriation Act to be established as an expropriation user for the purpose of building this facility of energy infrastructure requires the need to provide a legal basis for the realisation of this job. Article 2 The Expropriation Act provides for the possibility of establishing public interest in expropriation by special law. This created the conditions for the adoption of a law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a Master's gas pipeline MG-11, whose proposal was submitted to this assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on an urgent procedure. The adoption of this law by an emergency procedure would prevent the adverse consequences of delaying the start of the construction of this pipeline and of the related gas pipelines with the accompanying facilities and would ensure the possibility of preventing the failure of the construction season and delaying the permanent resolution of consumers' natural gas supply issues in southern Serbia's municipalities. The adoption of this law by emergency procedure would also make a significant contribution to encouraging the development of this region. The draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of hydrocarbons regulates the conditions for safe and smooth transport of these substances and their distribution, as well as the conditions of design and construction, maintenance and use of pipelines and internal gas installations. This law is necessary to regulate safe use, maintenance and construction of pipelines in a technical sense. It should be a legal basis for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts that will fully regulate the area of construction and security of gas pipeline use. At the same time, the law creates a legal basis for regulating internal gas installations and creates conditions to regulate the process and way of using the pipeline. In addition to the above reasons for the adoption of this law, the law is necessary for the necessary harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union regulations relating to the energy sector. This will create the necessary normative assumptions for connecting energy entities in the region, for their equal position on the energy market, for approximately the same degree of consumer protection, as well as other conditions that gradually ensure the opening of the energy market. In this way, business conditions are created which are both in technical and technological terms and in organisational terms necessary for the smooth development of the regional integration process in transport, transport and trade in energy. This creates conditions for the integration of our country into European economic flows. The reasons why the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act is proposed are considered in the need for closer and more precise regulation of the conditions and method of exploitation of the mineral treasure. The amendments and additions to the Law seek to allow for more efficient exploitation of mineral raw materials, to encourage the development of mining and to address the adverse consequences resulting from the exploitation of raw materials and the closure of mines. At the same time, this legislative proposal seeks to allow for a more efficient implementation of the fee for the use of mineral raw materials as the income of a country that is of paramount importance to the standard of living of the population. The specific objective of the law is to achieve greater control of the business of enterprises carrying out the action of the exploitation of mineral raw materials, to implement the issue of mining licences, and to tighten sanctions for the exploitation of mining goods contrary to the provisions of the Mining Act. The introduction of order into this highly sensitive area of development of our economy provides for greater protection of the deposits of mineral raw materials, i.e. it is regulated that their exploitation can only be done under conditions and prescribed legislation. At the same time, the law regulates the area of high environmental standards, and puts the accent on resolving problems arising from the suspension of mining works and helps to develop mining in rural areas. Certainly, one of the important reasons for the adoption of this law is that its application will allow for a higher fee for the use of the mineral treasure in general. The draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Employment Republic of Serbia, as a legal follower of the SRJ and one of the countries of the Successors of the former SFRY, regulates legal legislation in the field of electricity in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and other legislation. In doing so, the Republic of Serbia, in the context of harmonising its legislation with EU regulations, in particular the adoption of the Energy Act, has regulated energy performance issues on a completely different basis, thus devising the continued functioning and existence of the Community of Yugoslav Electricity as a legal entity. Therefore, the adoption of the law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity will create the necessary assumptions for the functioning of electricity operations in the Republic of Serbia in a scale with modern conditions and integration processes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed law will largely create normative assumptions that high standards are being built in our country and that Serbia in this area brings its legislation closer to EU regulations. In view of such objectives of the legislators of these laws, the SPS-JS Group will support all the laws proposed by the government in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29811	The word has an MP, Radoslav Mojsilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29812	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first and foremost speak of the Mining Act. We are all aware of the facts, which are often suggested by trade unions in Serbia, that miners work in extremely difficult conditions, with outdated equipment and low earnings, while their contributions to health, social and pension insurance have not been paid for years, which was also the reason for the strike of numerous mining enterprises over the past three months. A special example is the Resavica mine, where miners cannot link work experience and retire. This is not only the case in Resavica, but also in many mines in Serbia. The security at the work of miners in Serbia is at the lower edge of tolerance, and New Serbia is of the opinion that inspection by the Ministry of Energy and Mining must be done more often, in order to force mining companies to invest as much as possible in protecting miners at work. Mr Skundric, from your ministry, individual representatives said the adoption of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Law would contribute to a better organisation of mining enterprises, aimed at modernising and reconstructing individual mines in Serbia. However, I have not heard any of the Ministry's representatives speak about whether the Ministry aims to restart production, which has ceased in many mines or because of poor privatisation, or because of the purchase, i.e. The sale of many mines in Serbia has been set up by certain companies that are close to the ruling coalition through bankruptcy. By way of court bids in bankruptcy proceedings, and at the same time, with the pressure of individuals in power, there was no adoption of a restructuring plan submitted by bankruptcy creditors in the bankruptcy proceedings. First of all, I am referring to the company Farmakom from Šapac, which is through bankruptcy, i.e. At the bidding, she took the ‘Shuva ore mine’ mine in Rasko, as well as the ‘Lece’ mine in Medvedja. These mines have been closed for years and nothing is done in them, despite numerous promises from the owner, Mr. Bogicevic. As far as I know, there is also Mr Dusan Petrovic, vice-president of the Democratic Party, who owns the company "Farmakom" from Šapca. So, despite their numerous promises, there was no production in those mines. We also know that about a billion dinars for the use of ore treasure were merged into the republican budget last year and that this law, seen from the proposed changes, will increase the budget in the next year's budget. We hope that these funds will be used, i.e. that a large part of these funds will be invested in increasing the safety and security of miners, as well as in creating conditions for a greater inflow of private investment, as the future of mining is in the opening of new and developing existing mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29813	Thank you. Madam Vice President, Judita Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29814	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time I read it in the light of a legislative proposal, I am pleased that the Government is aware of this, or the promoter, that international laws have a primate in relation to domestic laws, according to our Constitution. I agree with the fact that our legislation must be brought into line with internationally ratified agreements, as well as with the Constitution, however, when the proposing calls for the respect of one constitutional member to be violated by another member, there is also a violation of the Constitution, and this also happens in this case when the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11. Why? Because the name of this law itself is not true. It is not true because the law contained should cover both the identification and the public interest, as well as the user. In fact, the bottom line is there's no expropriation without public interest. It is essential that the law determines the public interest, however, in this case the user is also established. Why it is determined by law, which is not indicated in the name of that law, I think it is a good question to ask the Government. When we read Article 8. The Expropriation Act, which we have during this year, seems to me in April of the month, changing amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act, then we can find out: fortunately, "Yugorosgas" is neither the Republic of Serbia, "Yugorosgas" is not an autonomous province, neither is the city, nor is the city of Belgrade, nor is it a municipality, and, indeed, it is not a company established by our public enterprise, nor is it a company in which our public enterprise is a majority owner. Therefore, if such a situation is and is, and these are all possible users of the expropriation that are envisaged, in this case "Yugorosgas", where the majority owner is a foreign state-owned company, cannot be a user of expropriation. For this reason, this legal proposal is contrary to both the Constitution and the Expropriation Act. So I think we should really ask a serious question about whether all of us here are going to accept this kind of precedent. Because if it is accepted to make an exception in this case, it can also lead to a legal order being threatened by someone’s interest. Therefore, we have nothing against public interest, yes, there is a public interest in certain "Yugorosgas" activities, which also determines the need for expropriation; however, we do object to a single company as a user in which the majority of the state-owned company is "Gasprom". As this majority ownership has taken place, that's another question again. I would like to remind you of 2004 and 2005 when, in fact, it was negotiated and when the "Progressgas Trejing" actions sold "Gasprom" and when, in fact, "Yugorosgas" became co-owner, i.e. 75% of this company. I would remind you of the fact that the Board of Directors of NIS decided to buy 25% of Progress Trading for just over four million US dollars. However, I would also remind you that our government has missed all deadlines to give consent to this legal work, so this amount of action has not been bought out. We simply left the control package to a foreign state-owned company and now we're in this situation where we are. It would not be good to break the Constitution and the Expropriation Act to iron someone's negligence, ignorance, or anything else. I would also remind you of the fact that in October of this year, some 2.4m euros were purchased "Informatics". Information engineering is the basic activity of this company, and computer equipment. In this way, when they acquired a majority package of "Informatics", "Srbigas" showed some kind of interest in dealing with stock exchanges and insulating over 200,000 dinars (so over two million euros) for these jobs, although its main activity is in difficulty. So again "Srbigas", a public enterprise. The public company, for example, ended in 2008 with debts to banks of about 14,000 million dinars, suggesting that new loans will be taken at $250,000 in 2009. So “Srbigas” is located in such a dubiosis and buys “Informatics” actions, whose activity absolutely does not have any contact point with the “Serbiagas” activity. Something about that gas is really going past the law, past the public and non-transparent. When we talk about a set of these laws that are on today's agenda, I think it would be good to remember the international agreement on the sale of the NIS control package to a foreign state. We're talking about a job that's been a lot of nice words, a job that's been marked as a historic job, and now we're doing a law on amendments to the Mining Act, where the emphasis is placed on the fact that taxis and taxes should be improved on the use of minerals and mining goods. At that time, the LDP, we drew attention to the fact that the mining rent in Serbia is 3% and that this kind of mining rent abroad is 30-35%, so that Serbia loses that kind of mining rent if it remains in force, and remains in force thanks to Article 13 of this Agreement, which was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, because this Article 13 does not allow a change in tax, taxi and so on, if any, to the detriment of the foreign partner. We will continue to charge 3% of the mining rent in the next 30 years, and in this legislative proposal, we are again talking about some tax and taxi charge. All in all, in the energy sector, we have serious failures, serious problems. It would be good for all of us together, as many of us as there are in parliament, to think carefully about whether this energy sector is important to us, how important it is in this sense that we are breaking the law and the Constitution, for whom it is important to break the law and the Constitution, to whom it is in the interest. Is it in our interest to simply forget how “Progressgas trading” or its actions is sold to a foreign state-owned company? Do we really need to close our eyes to such irregularities or do we really need to talk about it transparently? If it is necessary to really expropriate certain properties, isn't it much simpler to change the Expropriation Act in that part than to make such a legal precedent that will definitely endanger Serbia's legal order?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29815	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29816	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Professor Skundric, fellow MPs, I only wanted to make one technical suggestion about the Mining Act, in terms of the transfer of these, to say, fifti-fifti, 50% goes to local self-government and 50% remains the Republic. So far we haven't had a chance to have a clear insight into all this, we have no idea of all these means; there was no interest in that direction. In the meantime, however, things that make sense happen have a greater purpose. The total resources in this direction are intended to protect the environment where minerals and minerals are used. If the law provides that somewhere at the end of the balance sheet of success, a special accounting statement shows the use of ore wealth, based on the use of a ton, it will take a year to determine on the basis of that total amount how much funds are intended, i.e. to be allocated on the basis of compensation, that someone, as a producer, user of such minerals, will pay the mine to the expense of the Ministry of Energy. It is likely that there is somewhere in the rulebook, but if there is no, it would be good if that rule regulates the flow, the circle of transfer of these funds so that local self-governments can be defined in time by these means and bring their strategies and protection measures and that space used for the distribution, storage of all minerals, because this law allows for greater exploitation, greater dynamics. Investments in the state are increasing, so there is room for one such rule that will be closer to regulating the way the funds are transferred, especially because we have processors, legal entities that have been doing this for many years, and now we have made it possible for other legal entities and entrepreneurs to do so. We've expanded the scope of people who can do this job. Those who have done so far probably have an average of two, three, five years back; they can be determined not to wait for the balance sheet, to be quarterly, per month, by some succession, by some payment dynamic. For those who are yet to begin, let what is intended remain, that after a year of using the balance it may be shown. That's what I'm saying because we have areas (I'm talking specifically, I come from that area), such as Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Pestarska visorvan, there's a Stavalj mine, where most of the population lives from livestock and agriculture. If those who use it aren't on time... In addition to that mine, I know reliably, and those new ones who use minerals, clay, shale, stone, did not provide themselves financially so that they could provide the environment with harmful consequences of exploiting it. If those funds are forecasted in time, local self-governments have an obligation to direct those funds directly to the protection of the environment. If we know that this area lives on agriculture and livestock, and we know that we are a member of CEFTA, we know that our exports of food, meat depends on certification, HASAP and other laboratory findings of control, we need to figure out in time that circle to enable those who live on agriculture, livestock and other activities... This protection is needed, these resources should be channelled on time and create a commitment to local self-government that the full funds that will be returned from the Ministry to the accounts of local self-government in this direction are directed, that this link between the Ministry and local self-government, with the obligation of protection, exists. I know it can be slow, but it can impair some other actions, most of which the population lives on. It's something we actually experience every day. Secondly, this is more of a request and suggestion, given that the Stavalj mine at the cave high, at an altitude of more than 1,000 meters, is an extreme condition for living there, and that in Serbia we have a warm season of six months (from 15 October to 15 April), I say to you, and many of you have been in that area and know that the heated season in that area, Peshter, Tutin, Sjenica, lasts nine months (from September to May), if three months more than normal, and there is that coal mine there and the price is about 4,020 dinars, in relation to the tree, it would be useful, it would be normal, it would be fair to host these two municipalities (both at an altitude of more than 1000 metres) give them a certain subsidy, incentive or to facilitate them in terms of monthly, three months of compensation for all people living in Serbia, in order to be normal. The expenditure is surplus compared to something normal spent in Serbia. You know that Sjenica and Tutin belong to the poorest municipalities in Serbia; they belong to municipalities that have below 2% of the first category travel network, compared to other surrounding cities. For example, Kraljevo has 24% compared to the total amount of travel network. I hope you understood me, that you understood the point. I hope there will be a letter from the local self-government of Sjenica and Tutina, with all these arguments, evidence and arguments of the Hydrometeorological Institute of Serbia, so that this can be found in the procedure of the government and your ministry, in order to meet these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29817	Thank you, Mr. Poturak. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29818	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a few words, I will try to point out to you certain shortcomings in the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of hydrocarbons, which is why this bill is not acceptable for the Prosperity Group, Serbia, SNS. In fact, Article 2 of this proposal defines the concepts. Point 5) of this article is defined as the concept of the pipeline, but such a formulated definition did not cover some of the basic elements of the technical and technological continent of the pipeline, such as terminals and block stations, without which the pipeline could not function, so in that part this bill is missing. Next, Article 3 of this proposal lays down a way of designing and building pipelines. Article 4 found that the minister responsible for energy affairs, after obtaining the opinion of the interior minister, prescribed closer conditions for the design and construction of pipelines. It's okay. One of these conditions is the marking of the pipeline route. In Article 22, you have determined that the energy subject carrying out the activity of the transport, i.e. the distribution of pipelines, is obliged to keep the markings on the pipeline track and that the damaged markings are immediately in order or replace them. However, Mr Minister, nowhere in the text of this bill has the obligation to mark the pipeline route as the basis for applying the provisions of the rules establishing the way in which the pipeline route is marked and the way in which the pipeline markings are treated, which means that you have defined the method of marking and the way in which the pipeline markings are handled, but you have not prescribed the obligation to use the pipeline route and to mark. Furthermore, in Article 3. The draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of hydrocarbons has established a way of designing and building pipelines. However, regardless of the fact that in technical and technological terms all pipelines of the same type are identical, the process of their construction, given their purpose, may be different. In order to ensure the application of the principle of competition, transparency and equal treatment of persons capable of using this pipeline, pipelines are objects of general interest and can be built with the application of rules on expropriation. The basic rules on the exercise of activity of general interest are laid down by the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, while the rules on expropriation are prescribed by the Expropriation Act, where it is found that the expropriation of immovableity can be carried out exclusively in the public interest. Unlike the pipelines I've been telling you about, which will be performed by the general interest, there are pipelines that serve to transport liquid or gas hydrocarbons, but only for the personal needs of the owner, which must be built in accordance with this law. In view of the internal character pipelines, they cannot be subject to general interest provisions, nor to expropriation provisions. For reasons of their purpose, pipelines which are not intended to carry out activities of general interest, but exclusively to be used by their owner, may not be considered pipelines for whose construction could apply the rules of expropriation. It should be pointed out that the expropriation of a legal instrument which, in the legal procedure provided for, takes away the property of a third party with compensation and that it is possible to achieve this procedure exclusively with the aim of achieving general interest, as it would otherwise violate the provisions of the Constitution on human rights to property and the prohibition of discrimination, laws and international rules on human rights and the way of achieving general interest. This law does not specify cases where it is possible to apply rules on expropriation in the construction of pipelines and compliance with the Constitution of guaranteed human rights. In Article 40 of this proposal, the law lays down a two-year stepperiod as a deadline for the adoption of the rules for the enforcement of this law. In view of the importance of this law for the implementation of energy activities of general interest, transport and distribution of natural gas, transport of oil pipelines and transport of oil products to the pipelines, as well as for the construction of facilities for the performance of these activities that are strategically important for the functioning of the economy and life of the population, time of two years has been proposed, however, too long. Finally, Mr. Minister, taught the problems of supplying the economy and Serbian citizens during last year's heating season, but also because of the potential Russian-Ukrainian problem that arises due to Ukraine's inability to pay Russia for the gas delivered, two days ago and announced Russian Prime Minister Putin and thus warned consumers in Europe of the possibility of interruption in distribution, I would take advantage of your presence and invite you to inform citizens of Serbia of the state of natural gas storage "Banatski dvor", the amount of gas squeezed out and the estimated time period of which gas distribution to businesses and individual consumers in Serbia would be carried out if unwanted interruptions occur, which Serbia cannot influence. In the end (more than a local issue), can it be affected that prices for individual households in Serbia are balanced? In Vrnjačka Banja, from which I come, the price of the gas installation connection is 1,180 euros. In the nearest environment, which is the town of Kraljevo, the connection to the gas installation is free, and in the parish is 590 euros. My colleague throws me – in Kruševec, but I have no information about the price of the fee for Kruševac. According to these companies, citizens of Vranjska Banja are more than double punished than citizens in the rest of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29819	The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29820	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, we have a united debate on four laws, some call them energy, and I would rather refer to the Mining Act and here I will present some of my proposals on what this country needs to do, and it has not done, in order for things to be improved in mining. The Serbian Radical Party and the professional public have a lot of objections to the Mining Act, and neither does this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act remove these objections. It is necessary to pass a new law that will treat mining the way it is done in developed countries. Mining is a significant branch of the economy, and in many countries with a high percentage participates in the total gross product. That mining has huge potentials, which can boost the development of different industrial areas, speak examples from countries like Germany, the United States, Great Britain, Japan, where their economic development makes up the mining industry. Currently, mining in Serbia is low, with only 2% contributing to the national product. Starting with the fact that in Serbia raw materials production is still a significant business activity, it can be concluded that the exploitation of primary raw materials is one of the most important economic activities in Serbia. According to 1990 data, about 300 million tonnes of mineral raw materials and waste were removed from the country annually, and some 70,000 people worked in mining companies. If this is added to the accompanying industries, which are indirectly linked to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, it can be concluded that nearly 400,000 Serbians depended on mining. In the meantime. These relations have changed drastically: the amount of mass obtained by exploitation has been halved, and the number of people who depend on the mining industry has remained almost the same. Serbia is an energy poor country, its energy reserves, without Kosovo and Metohija -- it has coal for the next 50 years, oil for 20 years, and gas, but at the level of current production that covers 25% of needs. According to proven coal reserves, about fifteen million tonnes, Kosovo and Metohija are fifth in the world according to tested reserves. Lignite spreads all over Kosovo and Metohija, with an average layer thickness of about 60 metres. From a geological point of view, lignite from Kosovo is among the better quality in Europe, and given what energy and energy resources represent in the world frameworks, we can link it to all the events in our southern province. According to US experts, the value of coal supplies in Kosovo and Metohija is about $500 billion, and it is not surprising that this territory is of interest to major forces and multinational companies fighting for a better position. There are about 200 mines in Serbia that exploit ore, coal, stone, etc. Up until now, mainly quarryes and smaller mines have been privatised, while large systems such as the Public Enterprise for Sub-Dumbs are expected to sell, and this is also seen in the proposal that these mines with underground exploitation should pay compensation for coal of only 0.5% of revenue. It's familiar to me, and to you, that mines with underground exploitation are in a particularly difficult state. The question arises, why were they brought into such a state, is this about the upcoming privatisation? This is not about miners, or workers, but an irresponsible government that does not care about its natural wealth. The Resavica system directly receives about 20m euros or about 0.06 gross social products in subsidies from the state. The level of subsidies per employee in these mines is equal to 55 average salaries in the Republic. In addition, Resavica gets so much more in the name of unpaid taxes and contributions. For example, Velenje mine in Slovenia, although with underground exploitation, makes the biggest profit. The value of production in the Serbian mining sector is about $1.3 billion a year. If investments would increase, it could be increased multiple times over the next five years. Exploitation of mining wealth, or mineral raw materials, is a necessary prerequisite for further development of society. The result of this fact is that mining activity must provide as much mineral raw materials as possible, which is not a matter of choice but of inevitableness. The option of choice is only offered in the choice of modality to ensure this necessary precondition, and it is increasingly linked and determined by the need to preserve nature and the environment, i.e. increasingly strict criteria for the conditions of exploitation, i.e. the preservation of ecology. Strategic planning in the mining sector should be important for the future and common agreement between all stakeholders. The strategic document is a positive contrast to the work of the Stythian and non-planish. It is an approach that should set the basic framework for the further functioning of the mining sector, as well as the use of mineral raw materials. The Mining Act should enable rational management of mineral raw materials as the only non-renewable resource, with the aim of managing the entire area to meet the raw materials needs. That's not what this law provides. Serbia did not fully recognise this, so the basic document on space management (Small Plan of Serbia) gives little importance to mining and mineral raw materials. A slightly greater importance for the mining sector was given in energy development by 2015, in the context of energy development. Therefore, mining and mineral raw materials are not put in the context of the overall development of the country. A strategic document is needed to treat the management of mineral raw materials and mining activities and all in the function of the overall economic development of the state. The strategic document should contain data on existing mineral resources, the legal framework, actors and stakeholders, data on the current state of exploitation, as well as environmental impact and economic importance. That's not the state of Serbia for now. It is only the establishment of such a system that recognises, respects and includes all relevant actors that enable mineral raw materials to be part of the coherent and sustainable development of the state. The contact between the interested parties is low. A major problem is the poor ability to obtain valid data related to the results of previously performed geological research, existing research, as well as the production capacity of certain business entities. The mining sector is characterised by a relatively high degree of legal discrepancies, leading to illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, environmental destruction, etc. For the field of mining and geology there are numerous objections to the public and participants in mining activity – inadequate status of mineral raw materials, the deforestation of mineral raw materials beds through non-planned procedures in space, the monopoly position, as well as the occurrence of illegal exploitation. The legislation in the field of mining can be assessed on the basis of comparisons with water, forest and agriculture regulations, because they are related to them; they are all natural resources, except mineral raw materials are non-renewable natural resources, so the exploitation of mineral raw materials is most conflicted with the interests of the protection of those resources. Legal regulations must provide for the possibility of affirming most of the state, local, economic and individual interests, which is not so far the case in the field of mining. Under the current law, research and exploitation of mineral raw materials is related to obtaining the permits and consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and there are the organisations "Serbiad", "Serbiasum", the Ministry of Environment, as well as the protection of monuments. This solution combines and time-consuming procedures and allows every actor in the procedure to stop the process, regardless of whether it is abuse or non-recognition of spatial facts. This proposal for amendments to the Mining Act also contains a proposal to abolish the necessary consent of the competent ministry when it comes to forest land, but not to facilitate the procedure for obtaining consent, but rather to the following: as it stands in the light of this law, according to the provisions of the Forest Act, and also to the provisions of other positive regulations in the field of forestry, there is no basis for the adoption of an act granting consent so that the forest land can be exploited. What does that mean? Given that mineral raw materials are largely decomposed on forest land, this means that many will be left without the possibility of further exploitation or will knowingly violate the law. The Serbian Radical Party has tabled amendments on the proposal, hoping to adopt them and correct the text. The proposal also states that the exploitation of mineral raw materials can be carried out by a company, a company, or another legal entity and an entrepreneur, which is registered for the performance of that activity and which is licensed to carry out mining work and to carry out expert supervision of mining works. It is not clear why an entrepreneur can exploit, what kind of organisational form an entrepreneur has, and especially how he can meet the conditions for obtaining the necessary licenses. In order to obtain a licence, certain prescribed conditions should be met and compensation paid for the same. Looks like it's more important to take the money, not to achieve the quality. Also, according to this bill, the possibility of a natural person being able to exploit a broken stone, adorned stone, sand, gravel, brick clay on his own land, for his own purposes, is lifted. These are the most affected inhabitants in the rural area. They are the most endangered, the poorest, and they will not be able to dig up a stone to build a house, a land for bricks, to make and repair the way home and others. The most important thing for the state is to take the money. This law provides for a mining agency, and since the adoption of the law in 2006, it has not yet started working. That confirms it wasn't necessary. The Serbian Radical Party is against the establishment of agencies, you heard that, we talk about it all the time. There are over 140 agencies, funds, administrations, councils in Serbia, etc. that citizens support through the budget. The main feature of this network is that it employs thousands of people, all of which can be done by competent ministries. Recently, Minister Milan Markovic, in May of this year, said there was no dilemma that there could be fewer ministries, but that he was more eyed by a government agency whose creation did not justify the goal, so he said, "By abolishing certain agencies whose competencies would return under the authority of the state administration, we would achieve more significant, much more savings than if we cut the number of ministries." The problem is that these agencies pay citizens out of their pockets, we don't know what they're serving, they complicate people's lives and businesses. They provide a variety of regulations to justify their existence. The euphoria of forming various agencies began following October changes in meeting the conditions for EU entry. That all this is an unnecessary example of Slovenia, which is already in the EU and has only eight agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29821	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29822	Thank you. On behalf of my Prescribing Group, Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, I will only talk about establishing a public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a masteral gas pipeline of MG-11, giving, above all, the principle of objections to one bad practice of passing the law to the Assembly. I hope Mr. Skundric will agree with me this time to criticise the real culprit for the fact that such a document came to the Assembly. I'm surprised that no one wanted to see it, and all day long everyone's been holding this proposal, material in their hands, where on the other side of the bill's reasoning, it's nice to read that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is by its act, the number and that since 31 August 2009, establishing spatial plans, etc. This project has been provided to support all activities related to the realisation of the Master's pipeline construction project. What is particularly important to me as an MP, in terms of violation of the Constitution, says of this procedure "and proposes", means the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, "to establish a public interest in the expropriation of immovableity", and then politically incorrectly, but very skillfully determines "if the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers it acceptable." So, the Ministry of Environment has done its part of the job, delivering to the government to establish public interest, but if the government considers it acceptable, not accepting responsibility for any further illegal proposals on how to determine that public interest. What is indisputable is the investment that we are waiting for, from which we expect much and which in every sense has strategic significance and because of energy security and some respect for the place where we are located, as a house at a crossroads we cannot move, but we need from St. Sava to this day not to miss it, but to have friends and such strategic projects to protect us. But we're coming into a situation where the whole project is compromised and, now I'm going to say openly, bureaucratic failures of not enough loyal associates, and let them be identified as who they are. You're a professor of university, you know your profession. They were not allowed to deliver to you such a bill defining how unfounded it was by the Government's decision to seek public interest in a company that does not satisfy the conditions laid down by the law to which it is called, not even the provisions of the Constitution that are decidently stated here, where it is precisely stated that this basic condition is the capital structure of 25%. I have no intention of arguing with your coalition partners, but I would like to remind the citizens: when the state gave up to save its stake in the National Savings Bank, but gave it up in time and paid it to pay for the friends of those who paid huge money, money was found, deadlines were respected, and the moment the state was supposed to get out, that the individuals with whom the whole project, which had been donated to the former SDK, had been given the exclusive job of old savings, no one bothered and no one mentioned that the government was working on the damages of Serbia, Serbian citizens, the budget and its longstanding assets. In the already sensitive financial crisis, when capital participation is maintained in the Commercial Bank, where the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has part of its capital, there are also funds in the budget to preserve the structure of capital from which the state of Serbia has interest. I don't need to draw, citizens need to hear. He who holds the keys to the vault, in a literal and transmitted sense, and those who were interested in not being realised or compromised today, who also left their structures in the IRS, and in organs and organisations, etc. They created a practice of missing deadlines, dropping shares in capital, but they left you, Mr. Minister, responsible before us. I just don't want to just blame you for this and this, not perfect, but a proposal that I can't say creatively, we can interpret it, or it's ambiguous, so let's find a way to realize an investment that we're interested in. No, there's no hole in the law here, and it's obvious that this act that was proposed is unconstitutional, not because you suggested it, but because you prepared it according to the law that was unconstitutional. This is the Expropriation Act, which in one part respects the Constitution in Article 1 and does not respect it in Article 2 because it restricts the right of private property by a decision of the executive authority. He has your partial guilt, but there's no absolute guilt. What is generally bad manners and why I intervene, we must not say – National Savings is a robbery of the century that is made possible by the means of the state, so now let's make a failure or do a useful deed to someone, and to the harm of the state and the budget, and now to justify this minor damage with the greater one. We can't do that because someone took advantage of it at the National Savings Bank, or that the Commercial Bank doesn't fall under any government control, even though we have board members there... The Director of the Privatisation Agency shall be a member of the Management Board of the Commercial Bank. Do you have a report, Mr. Minister, as a member of the government, what are the receipts and salaries in that bank where the state has significant participation? You don't. We're not gonna take bad examples of us taking pelzers for bad practice. This case, as a society, as a parliament, and you as a government must first of all put into the frameworks of the law and not allow the economic society that depends on this here to repeat the mistakes of the type of reduced participation and illegal use of state rights. How is that possible? We have now passed a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the bodies of the Republic, the central administration and the local administration. It's nice to say it refers to the authorities of the administration and the public agencies. Then we have the Law on Public Agencys, which states in Article 7 that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees are subject to the Labour Act and then there goes this famous sentence, which breaks all the frameworks of the law, all the frameworks of the Constitution, all the barriers, which it says – if this or the special law is not something else specified. This formulation is so misused that in the case of the Expropriation Act, the essence of the law itself is completely destroyed, in terms of legal certainty, property, private, state and each, that the expropriation in private is carried out solely by law. A job for lawyers, who don't do this by accident – what's a lex specialise worth that cancels the law? Every session we bring two lex specials; when they conflict, which one will it be? Earlier brought, older, written in bold letters or published in this or that messenger? Some legal certainty must exist, and the object of mocking MPs, the Legislative Committee responsible for establishing the constitutionality of the law, us who do not need to blush for an illegal act, must not be questioned on one of the most important things, which is the MG-11 project. Please, you've probably rightly accumulated your anger by listening to all of us and all sorts of things, but what you unfairly received from us as a criticism, you should transfer to those who justifiably deserve criticism for this law coming here unconstitutional, even though you could have done it yourself and thought that the unconstitutional law allowed you, you shouldn't have been exposed to this, I can tell you the simplest thing, is to mock the cameras today. On behalf of the Assembly, the legality and reputation of Serbia in front of its citizens, in front of those who do not want this project to be realised, please give this act and this job from now on so that we are all proud, regardless of what you are today, and we are the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29823	Thank you. The vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29824	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address the problem of the Serbian electricity industry, as the fourth point of this united debate is the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Employment. I could go back to Serbia's electricity business 20 years back, even a period of functioning within the SFRY. If I were to talk about it, I would only say it in the introduction briefly, then I have to point out that the end of this law, as you said in your explanation, came because of the fact that the former Yugoslavia fell apart, that the globalist policy of America and the Western powers were to break up, above all, ethnically, national, cultural, religious space on which the Serb people live. In this context, I can say what you know, Mr. Skundric, as an earlier senior official of the government in the 1990s, as a function of the SPS, you are witnessing the destruction of our state and the abduction of Serbian territories, that in the process of succession, if we can call it that, Serbia is the most affected and when it comes to electricity, because as one of the six republics in that federal state, we have invested the most in the electricity potential and in building all the plants. The situation did not end with the breakdown of the SFRJ first, so the destroyed SRJ, the SCG state union, is already facing the biggest disaster today, which is that the power plant in our southern province is controlled by the Cypriot occupation government, not Serbia, which participated in the construction of the "Obilic" Termopower Plant, which owns 500 megawatts of power in the A bloc, and B 700 megawatts. Block A and Block B are supplied with coal from the surface spears "Good Village" and "Belacevac", and lignite reserves, i.e. coal, are now speculating this data, and this is indeed the exact data, which is 13 billion tonnes. It is in an absolute, nominal amount of enormous value, invaluable, and now under the control of occupiers, with the help of NATO forces and Eulex, which is the current government, headed by Boris Tadic, legalised. The "Obilic" thermal power plant was built exclusively with Serbian money, without any dinar of the former republics. Of Serbia's total power, 20% power has been installed there. If we start from the death of our countrymen in the southern Serbian province, from the persecution, the pogrom that happened three years ago, and now full occupation, we are faced with the fact that the people of Kosovo-Methochian villages (the famous case of the village of Šilovo near Gjilan) do not have electricity for 20 hours. They're going to meet cold winter days this year, and then they can't function even in hospitals, schools because of the fact that it's a situation. Since we are talking about the Elektroprivreda Serbia system, let me tell you, you may not have heard, this morning your colleague, Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic, was on a TV show talking about future, possible privatisation, or finding a strategic partner in Serbia's Elektroprivreda and the restructuring process. On behalf of our SRS parliamentary group, I tell you, and this is our position since the founding of our party, to oppose the privatisation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. One such large system, which has been systematically ruined and particularly by the robbery of the mafia (i.e. two - Hamovic and Lazarevic) between 2001 and 2004, has been completely maimed and sickened. The culprits have not been brought to justice day and day, although the three inspectors have been savingly doing their job by following up on the work of the Survey Committee, which was led by the one who betrayed the SRS, Aleksandar Vukic. So he never published his published book, nor did he ever report to the National MPs, because in the meantime the tycoons and the tycoons took it under their own, and later, you already know that scenario – foreign intelligence, Cana Frog and all those who put money in his pocket. That doesn't mean that you're not dealing with this case as a minister in this government right now. Of course, that's what judicial authorities do, but you need to know that we're suffering from electricity, and what's the damage that's measurable or immeasurable. They established three police inspectors, Dejan Svilar, Predrag Pavlica and Petar Damjanac, who were quickly removed and demoted, one was sent to retirement, the other two to lower jobs, that the damage to Serbia's Elektroprivred from the contract with the EFTA company and the Interface, which was dealt with by the Joint Committee, that those "partners", Hamovic and Lazarevic, were thus placed in the pocket of at least 22 million and even a fantastic $50m cash benefit, against the law. They were sent to the district public prosecutor's office a few days after she was filed, as I said, have been replaced. I wonder if you know, given that the Belgrade district attorney called and said he couldn't give any information after all this time and years, do you know how far it's been with that case? Journalists and today are trying to trace these criminal charges and what the Survey Committee found, and he found that Hamovic and Lazarevic are companies, operating under these privileged conditions... So it's the robbery of the century, most damaged by Elektroprivreda, which now operates with losses due to the fact that it has not been invested for 20 or 30 years absolutely nothing, almost nothing, because of the fact that there is no clear concept by the new board of directors and management that such a large system will be restructured and that there will be new investments to restore its plants and build new power plants, first of all on Drina, which are so much talkable. For the sake of the public, I must also say tonight in this debate that the biggest aid in the restoration of Đerdapa 1 is actually given by the Russian Federation, that from the National Investment Plan, which is under the patronage of Dinkic, or Kalanovicka, no single dinar is invested in the process of restoring, or helping Elektroprivred. The question arises why is there such a huge loss, which is even measured by percentages between 13 and 18, and in some periods of the year and up to 20%, from the electricity production process to the distribution process? If we are faced with this robbery and the affair of the century, which has not been prosecuted by our judicial authorities until the end, although we know that Hamovic and Lazarevic, or their companies, have deposited electricity in the summer period for two cents per kilowatt hour, and then by selling it to Serbia's Elektroprivred in the winter period at a price of 4.2 to even six cents per kilowatt hour, have earned enormous amounts, who will then make us know now and who will even convince Serbia's Elektroprivred employees that some bright future awaits them when they know that their company has been robbed? We have, as a party, a solution to this problem and we are constantly offering it. So, we express opponents of the privatisation of Serbia's Elektroprivred, because of the fact that France's electricity and the Czech Republic, which mainly serves as a role model for all in Europe, are obvious examples that neither those countries that are EU members want to privatise state-owned enterprises and which can be profitable in their business. There should be some way to come up with what this power is not capable of, nor does it want to, to improve the situation in Serbia's Elektroprivred. In 2015, if we want to have enough energy, healthy air and a Serbian country, about nine billion euros is needed, according to experts. If you look at how the International Monetary Fund has been blackmailing you these days, not only now, but all years ago, and the previous government and all the Dosmanian authorities since 2000, when the system of electricity, robbed Serbia, has been systematically ruined, you will see that the IMF offers nothing for infrastructure (somewhere, not only Serbia, but all countries with expensive money) but mainly for filling weakened foreign reserves or buying social peace from month to month, with the uncertainty of what fate our pensioners and employees in education and health will find. The price discrepancies with the average price in the environment, that's also your problem, and your ministry's problem, today some fellow MPs have been saying why. Here, we'll tell you why. We Serbian radicals are constantly warning that the tariff system introduced by the DOS to power does not follow real flows at all, therefore, this tariff per zone, which is otherwise anti-constitutional. Some categories are thus damaged, and in the system the price that has been so badly done is mostly killed by our poorest citizens. This constant loss, which I was just talking about, in the distribution of electricity, at all voltage levels, is simply amazing when it comes to the fact that Serbia has built a ring model of transport, i.e. the transit of electricity. Then the problem is in you, or the Ministry you're running, and in the management of the Elektroprivreda. Here, for example, if we take into account, and it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know it, then I commit to this second item of the agenda, that the Russians in the NIS this year, according to Mr Kiril Kravchenk, should invest 136,000,000 euros, and that will total 548,000,000 euros... The company Gazprom Neft expects NIS to end its successful business this year, and last year the debt amounted to nearly 30m euros. In the context of Mr. Vladimir Putin's statement, Russian Prime Minister, a few days ago, if, God forbid, there is a gas crisis that culminated last January 6th, tell us, Mr. Skundric, do you think that the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, which survived the unfeeling NATO aggression and everything that happened after that aggression by the NATO Pact, and one single dinar of compensation, has not been obtained, able and ready to take responsibility for powering Serbia's electricity system in the event of this gas crisis? There are many issues, but it is indeed the turn of time for the government to come up in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the idea that the Elektroprivreda of Serbia would (so I end) the process of restructuring, but also the potential attempt to privatise, which we are determined to oppose, completely destroy our electricity system. This is what we are fighting against, and against it are employees, responsible people who know their jobs and who see that this fate of the Elektroprivreda is actually the result of the robbery, the "mafishluka" back nine years and the fact that absolutely nothing by the state in the Elektroprivreda of Serbia is investing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29825	Thank you. There are 40 minutes left for your parliamentary group. Mr. Mico Rogovic has a word. You've got seven minutes left and a little more, like, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29826	I thank you, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I will, within these few minutes, put an accent on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining. Before I say anything, I have to make a finding - you will probably not agree with it, Mr. Minister, but I am not saying this pro-forma, but based on consultations with experts from this area - that for these amendments and amendments to the law, as well as for many laws that enter into the assembly procedure, there was no quality professional and public debate. Given the fact that this matter is dealing with a problem and that the envisaged changes and additions of this law are significantly disrupting some of the previous provisions of the current law, we suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure and that it experience what it needs to experience, i.e. a concrete and official expert and public debate. Even in the reasons for the adoption of this law, which are stated in the explanation, some contradictory facts have appeared, and these facts have not resolved the intention of taking appropriate amendments and supplementing this law. We'll try to prove it to you when there's a story about the amendments. I'm not going back into any past, I just want to specifically start with certain members. Something in the context of the principle debate of counterpart Stefan Zankov made, but since you said there was no need for concern, and you didn't say anything more concrete than that, I once again have to underline some things. First, as Mr Zankov said, the closure of underground exploitation in most European countries is the reason for this law. a mine resolved by the law of closing mines. In the proposal for this law, this is left to public undertakings, i.e. the so-called projects to which these public undertakings under which the mine will be closed. The biggest concern about this law and the biggest problem that changes and complements the Mining Act can in practice address this. We've heard stories on the subject of some other law that it won't happen like that. But indeed, all the professional public is upset about the situation. The current, or applicable law in Article 13 states that the exploitation of mineral raw materials can be carried out by companies, companies or other legal entities. In Article 2. The bill, which refers to changes to the existing law in Article 13, adds the word "entrepreneur". A year ago, I referred to your ministry a question about the territory of the municipality of Prepolje, where various studies in an area called Čadinje and Kamena Gora were conducted. It is known that this area has certain capacities in terms of mineral wealth. Was it thought, when adding the word "entrepreneur" to the bill... Because in the territory of that municipality, after all these exploiting research, there are huge holes left, which are not buried. I never got an answer on that question. I'm also asking the representatives of your ministry to give me an answer to this question until the amendment debate. Does this introduction of entrepreneurs, in terms of new proposals, additions and amendments to the Law, mean that Serbia will explore and address situations similar to those that occurred in the area of the municipality of Prepolje? I'd like to agree with Mr. Poturk, regarding the Stavalj mine, the Sjenica municipality's territory and this situation around altitude. I really support this idea, but the Stavalj mine, on the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, is much closer to the municipalities of Ivanica and Nova Varoš than Tuvalj, so if you are already considering the proposal of your coalition MP, then let this idea spread to the territory of municipalities that are really much closer to the Stavalj mine than the Tutin municipality. When it comes to the subject of the addition of entrepreneurs, then it is concluded that the criminal provisions regarding this law are different for businesses and other companies compared to entrepreneurs, so that they are six to twenty times less for entrepreneurs, and they can participate in all of this which you have listed as all other business entities, i.e. enterprises. All the above talks about the way and the need to favour one economic operator in relation to another, which is indeed in contradiction with the Constitution. This is particularly evident in the Bill's proposal when it comes to exploiting raw materials to obtain construction material, where companies that exploit non-metallic raw materials are placed in a more unfavourable position than other companies and open up the possibility that the government will opt for each year, without clear criteria, how much compensation they will be. According to the bill, the state, on the one hand, collects compensation, and on the other hand... only if you did not intend to abolish subsidies in this area, i.e. the area of underground coal exploitation, so that those views are contradictory. In Article 8(4), you place public undertakings, as well as entrepreneurs in the previous case, in a privileged position compared to other entities, which, you will have to admit, is not in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It also applies to Article 14, where you say technical control can be done by someone who's done the project. In practice, you really do not know such an example that technical control can carry out a person or part of an organisational unit, for example, a public enterprise, which is a project rule, so that these members, apart from being in contradiction with the current Constitution, are contrary to each other. In the end, the most important thing, the biggest suspicion about this, is that you're trying to regulate the closure program with this law... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... underground explosions. And, about these migrations that are going to happen in the mining areas, I could think, if it wasn't too serious about this topic, that this problem would be solved by building a subway in larger centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29827	Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29828	Mr. Minister, if you had written in article 1: This law regulates the conditions for: indent one - safe and smooth pipeline transport, bottom two - distribution of gas hydrocarbons, bottom three - design and construction, bottom four - maintenance and use of pipelines, this article would have made sense. This is how you put it under one basket. So defined, in order to make it easier for Serbian citizens to understand, you are from Gerdap, the power line, the divorce lines, to the low network, and over the low network, because I see here and the internal gas installations, to the last plug in your apartment, putting everything in the same basket. The internal gas installations, as well as the electrical installations in the apartment, are the private property of the user and are by no means their place here. But at the same time, you forgot an important segment relating to pipelines, or pipelines, and you didn't put it here. It's about the sumptuous gas pipelines that lead from the gas wells to the constituencies or to degazolinase, where these gases are processed further, clean, extracted, for example, in the degazolinase of the liquid fraction and further released into the gas pipeline system. These sumptuous pipelines aren't in this law. Point 5), the pipeline, you described it well and gave me the creamworth to ask you a question – what are you like as a government, what are you as a minister, what did your predecessor do to protect the vast property of the Serbian state that was installed in the so-called state of affairs? JUNA project, Yugoslav pipeline from Omis on Krk to the Pančevo refinery and the Novi Sad refinery. As I recall, over 30% of the total funds invested in the then Yugoslav pipeline are from Serbia, more specifically from NIS, from the then-Nftagas. We've invested huge funds in this, and now, at fair prices, we're paying oil transport from Omis to Krk to our refineries. Or we often get worse oil than that oil they suck in the pipeline there; we happen to get the oil-separated cap stuck, so that the oil doesn't arrive when Serbia needs it most. In the end, you will answer this question, because I am very interested, not only in me, but also in the citizens of Serbia – what will the state of Serbia finally do to protect this property? Not to mention other assets that are related to the gas and oil industry and are located in other republics. In Article 2(1), he says: “The distribution is the transmission of gaseous hydrocarbons from the pipeline... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I wanted to return for a moment only to Article 1; transport is one activity, distribution is another activity, and these two actions must also be separate in law. You can't see it here. One, in my opinion, is the illogical position in Article 2: ‘The pipeline transport is the transport of gas liquid hydrocarbons in pipelines, products and gas pipelines of work pressure greater than 16 bars, as well as the pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons of working pressure from 6 to 16 bars’. This is about a master gas pipeline, it's about a transport system, it's about a gas pipeline that has between 50 and 16 bars. All pressures below 16 bars can't be in the transport system unless the system stops working. That's why there are compression houses on every, say, 100 or 200 kilometers, where they raise pressure from 16 to 50 bars, and so on goes. Pressures below 16 bars are pressures belonging to the distribution network and the gas pipelines and cannot possibly be in the pipeline transport section. So, the pressures from 16 and below, up to 6 bars, belong to the distribution network. The next objection to this law lies in Article 3, where you overlooked something that is very important. In my opinion, this law is so inapplicable. He says: “The pipelines are designed and built in the corridor as determined by a spatial plan on the track which is found to be natural... “ etc. "A determined spatial plan"? What about the pipelines that belong to the gas pipelines, the pipelines that belong to the distribution network, the pipelines that enter the inhabited areas? There can not only be a spatial plan, but there must be regulatory plans, because the settlements of building all, along with other pipelines, systems regulate the regulatory plan. A spatial plan through uninhabited places, through fields, a regulatory plan in populated places. In Article 2, paragraph 4, this whole part can be... He says: “... complete with the internal gas installation of the buyer’. The internal gas installation of the buyer is not part of the transport and distribution system. The internal installation of the buyer starts with a regulatory or measuring set, and ends with consumption. Whether it is a household or a smaller production capacity or, at the very least, any production capacity, the internal gas installation is the ownership of the user. It can be a self-regulatory system, because in large consumers, the measurement system comes to the consumption itself. In Article 7, you have made an oversight that cannot be accepted: “Natural gas, liquid oil gas and biogas for prescribed consumption... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I'd like someone to explain to me what the prescribed consumption is. There are no prescribed and non-rescribed consumption types. It's about the gas approval. Mr. Minister, the aorisation of gas is only used for broad consumption. It would be absolutely unnecessary and quite stupid for the gas to be laid down for large consumers such as the New Belgrade heat, which pulls in one hour so much natural gas as, for example, for full-scale consumption, it takes 24 hours for household use in Belgrade. Speaking of approvals, you didn't prescribe in one member, that I'm not looking for him now, something you had to do. So far, natural gas and liquid oil gas have been approved by the so-called. ethyl mercaptanoma, which has certain carcinogenic properties. They're going to get dressed to make the gas feel if it comes out, and it doesn't go over spending, so I don't say, it stinks. Ethyl-mercaptan is a tool that, in addition to that feature, gives a special smell to that gas, has carcinogenic properties. In today's day, almost at the same price, if not a little more expensive, new non-cancerogens are used everywhere in the world, except for us. We still use ethyl mercaptan. This law would require you to prescribe the use of the new generation's credentials. There is no prescribed time limit for the release into service of pipelines which are temporarily excluded from use. It's a Article 13 and it's a little clumsy; it almost makes this member and this part of the law useless. ‘The pipelines or parts of the pipelines and their devices and facilities temporarily excluded from use, as well as new or reconstructed pipelines which are not put into service within the prescribed time limit, may be put into service after re-examination, in accordance with Article 9 of this Act. “ There is no prescribed deadline, Mr. Minister. Let the pipeline be shut down for two days and let a certain reconstruction be carried out on it, it must be re-tested. There's no deadline -- six months, two months, 15 days. Any disengagement of the part of the pipeline in the case of reintegration must be re-tested. This also protects the property of the one in whose vicinity the pipeline is located, as well as the pipeline system itself. In Article 16, you are looking for professional training of persons engaged in transport, distribution, manipulation, gas management and you forget that we have been using gas for several decades. It's long since retired those who started introducing gas into industry, into broad consumption, etc. These people have passed some professional exams. I guarantee you that every person who deals with these affairs after a certain time, a year or two acquired experiences, will pass a professional exam. You didn't regulate here that those persons who already have passed the expert exam don't have to go out again. What happens if, God forbid, our governments do, as Italians do, fall every six months? You'll need people every six months at the new Energy Minister to pass professional exams. I think it must be defined in this article: persons who have already passed a professional exam are considered to have passed a professional exam. One more thing, I'll end up leaving time for my colleagues. ‘The pipelines or parts of the pipeline that will no longer be used must be physically separated from the pipeline system, device or plant, cleaned from hydrocarbons, flammable mixtures... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Excuse me, Article 18: “At the time of use and maintenance of the pipeline can occasionally, in the prescribed places, be released into the environment or burned... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You can't, Minister, drop it around. So far, it has not occurred on Serbia's territory that the businesses involved in this business have dropped in the environment at least the amount of gas, i.e. hydrocarbons that are being transported. There's always a torch and it's always dropped on the torch, it lights that amount, not only because of environmental pollution, but also because it's very explosive matter. In particular, I'm going to say a lot about amendments, and this time I'm going to let my colleagues who applied also say a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29829	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The People's MP Nikola Savic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the proposals of several laws in the field of energy, and I will pay the most attention to the law relating to pipeline transport, because other than my colleague Momir Markovic, almost no one in this room has spoken of this law, and the debate has been going on since this morning, since 10 o'clock, as you yourselves have witnessed. Of course, like all the laws that come to us from this government, and this law is unspeakable, imprecise. If only a little more professionally looked at and entered into the essence of this law, it is possible to note that this law was written by someone who does not possess serious knowledge primarily from technical sciences, and of course not from legal sciences. I'm going to say something about the terms that are defined in this law. The first concept of this law refers to pipeline transport. The definition of this pipeline transport is absolutely impeccable, incomplete, could even be said in a certain way incorrect. This definition certainly couldn't get a passing grade from any high school professors without talking about college professors. You know, this is still a technical profession, and the technique is science where everything has to be clear, precisely defined, because if there are some premises and axioms on which something is resting and if it's wrong, then all science and everything that it teaches is bad and it all falls into water. When it comes to the definition of pipeline, it's even worse here. It simply seems that the billmaker did not hear that long ago the hot water was invented and that the pipeline, in addition to these things that he has stated here in the law, can transport, supply hot water; and not only hot water, but also other matter, such as tiny grains, dusty matter, etc. Of course, it should be known at least so much that through the radiators in our apartments that we are heating up in these winter times, hot water is going and that this warm water has come through the pipelines without coming from some sink or I don't know in any other way. Now that I've started in this tone, I have to point out that, literally, whatever concept you take in definition, everything is full of inaccuracy. For example, in one place it is said – gas pipelines are interstate pipelines for gas transport, etc. Imagine, if the transport of gas from "Banatski dvor" to Nis, Leskovci, Vranja or other parts of Serbia is carried out, then it can be concluded that the gas is not delivered to pipelines, because these are not interstate pipelines, they pass through Serbia's territory. Since you're preparing the Duke's statutes to adopt him in this parliament, you may have had that in mind, so perhaps, for example, one such pipeline will be, God forbid, some time interstate. That I don't look like I'm just criticizing, but that's my basic intention, because, however, the opposition is there to criticise the laws, there's one good thing you've done here. Let's say, the definition of the pipeline is well done, I have no regrets, but if there's a little look at it, it can be concluded that this is written, it looks like someone else; somehow, the style of writing and words differs from previous definitions. Probably the legislator prescribed this from some student's seminar work, because it's obvious that what I was talking about upstairs is not worth anything and nothing's wrong. It's not just technical terms. Of course, I'm an engineer, a technical face, so I've been paying attention to that, but there are other things. Let's say, if we look back at both legal and technical terms, we'll see that this law is full of certain irregularities. For example, in one place, when you define the concept of a buyer, you say: “The buyer is a legal or physical person that buys gas and liquid hydrocarbons. “ I believe, and with linguists I have consulted, I guess it is more logical and correct to say – the buyer of gas and liquid hydrocarbons is a legal and physical person. I'd like the minister to answer at the end of my presentation who wrote this law. I was reminded by my colleague Momir Markovic, who says in one place that pipelines are designed and built in a corridor that has been determined by a spatial plan. It's essentially, when you're looking at paper, all right, but this just isn't true when it comes to you, because this isn't being respected. For example, it is still unclear whether the "South Stream" pipeline route coming from Bulgaria will pass through Nis or Zaječar. Representatives of local self-government in Zajecar argue they will pass through Zaječar. Representatives of the local government in Nis cannot go outside Nisli, they say – you know what, it's not quite finally, yet Nis won't get around. So you put one thing that literally doesn't match the real state and what's going to happen on the ground. Furthermore, in one article, I think Article 4 stands, let's say: the Minister responsible for energy (that is, of course, you, in this case, Mr Skundric) should obtain an opinion from the Minister of Interior on many technical issues, such as the question of routes, construction materials, pipeline parameters etc. I really think this is one big nonsense, that this is in the bill, because when I listened to lectures and took exams from the Mechanics Fluid case, the thermodynamics gave first of all regular professors of technical sciences, not the representatives of the SUP, or the MUP. It turns out that practically the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior are the ones without whom no matter what happens to these pipelines can be done. I really don't understand how anyone could have written something like this. I talked to many of my fellow engineers, and people were surprised, they really couldn't believe that it was practically a more dominant interior minister than the Minister of Energy when these were strictly professional, things. There's still a lot of things that don't stand and that should change. I've already said we can't go around science. I know that the Assembly, the majority of the assembly, ministers, that these are all political bodies and that they make and give laws, but still, this is one explicitly professional law. So we have to respect the profession, we have to respect science. Technical science is still something that differs from economics, for example. In the economy, one of the ministers can steal a billion dinars and cover it with some paper or other way, not to be seen, not to know, but if one pipe, one pipeline that someone designed and made, has one flaw, it will immediately be seen and major problems can arise. It's still in the law to grant, ororize the gas. I'm really surprised what this expression is about. My colleague Moma, to mention him again, explained what it was, but that's not a word in Serbian and I believe that a lot of people, and educated, and not ordinary people, don't know what this term means in the first place. Those who work on these jobs, who perform them, do not have in their pocket Vujaklia's dictionary of foreign words and expressions, so, if necessary, take out, see, translate etc. Simply, here it could be simple and said – adding a certain, intended, necessary smell, and everything would be right. Since I have to leave time for my colleagues, this is how I'd end up, but really, believe me, whoever wrote you this law doesn't even rule very well with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29831	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. The word has the last registered speaker, MP Mr. Zoran Krasic. The remaining time of the SRS Parliamentary Group, Mr Krasic – sixteen and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29832	Of course, I can't talk about these technical terms because I really don't know and I could be wrong. It's easy for Mr. Markovic, he's been working for 25 years at a company that's been doing these jobs so he can talk about the history of the pipeline with us. I would, however, like to go back to this first draft law in this set of regulations represented here in the Assembly by Mr. Skundric. This is the proposal for a law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a master's pipeline. At the beginning, because of that part of the public that will watch this in the delayed transmission, if anyone is watching at all, this has nothing to do with "South Stream", this has nothing to do with Russian partners, with Russian friends, this is a purely internal matter of the Republic of Serbia. There were speakers here who tied this law to the "South Stream", so you noticed that mistake, but well, it got right. I must tell you in the beginning that I was preparing for this law, or I expected one of these laws. I expected him last year in December of the month, but when I saw that there was a law in the assembly procedure on amendments and amendments to the Expropriation Act, then I was absolutely sure that the next version would come with the law and that it would be the one set out in Article 2. The draft law shall be covered. This morning I explained to you that I was preparing for the discussion and for this topic, as I prepared myself in 1996 in this same place, Mr Skundric, for that law on confirming the agreement between these two sides. At that time, we Serbian radicals made critical remarks for completely different reasons, but we also respected the situation that we also had a blockade, and "Mol" in Hungary, and conditionality, etc. I don't want to open that topic, so it's over. What do I want to draw your attention to? In February of this year, I insisted with the government's representative, a lady from the finance ministry, that she explain what it is about amending the Expropriation Act. Right away, I think you had to, before you put together a bill like this, have a better view of the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative Secretariat. I doubt the Legislative Secretariat is now qualified for quality work. For what? This is a matter that is not subject to any special law, regardless of what is written in the Expropriation Act in Article 2. For what? No special law can change something that has been defined for several hundred years. Mr. Skundric, the word "expropriation" means that something in private property passes into state property. The word "administrative transfer" means that something held by the state authority is moving into a state-owned other state body, without any change in property form. When in Article 1, second of this bill you put into the same basket of expropriation, administrative transfer, partial expropriation, a major error was made at the beginning. That can't go away. That's the basic problem. Because another question can be asked – if this highway pipeline from Belgrade has reached Nis somewhere, so someone has already done something, then why does it not continue? This concept of law is wrong. This could have been done in some other way. I must draw attention to the fact that in 2007, too, there was a mistake. Of course, I've been doing this job for a long time, so I'm one of the authors of the Law on Public Business and Trusting Business of General Interest. Our idea wasn't this. Furthermore, I must draw your attention - from the point of view of expropriation and administrative transfer there is no difference between the masteral, regional gas pipeline and the one on the streets. Why? Because in the case of expropriation, the main thing is immobilization. At the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Finance Ministers, I warned that a special system of the so-called financial system should be developed. real burdens and service, that there is no need to expropriate, in terms of moving immovableity from one property form to state property, when you can get permission to carry out those installations at 80 centimeters or meters in the country, to return land and then go restrictions—can't house, can't wood, but can wheat, can do anything. I'm using something as an example, maybe I'm technically wrong, but I want to put the weight on the property on the land. This is where the wrong path was chosen. When the Expropriation Act was amended, in February of this year, it was said that three things needed to change. I'll give you a concrete example, Mr. Skundrich. According to the 1996 law, the user of expropriation could have been a public enterprise of republican interest, such as Elektroprivreda, but in practice it was expropriated to take off land, to dig up, etc. "Collubrea", a system-dependent company. This change was practically the legalisation of the existing situation in that part and then it was said – the user of the expropriation can be a public enterprise of the republican interest and any dependent company that the public company has made. When we passed the Law on Public Enterprises, we put restrictions exactly so that we could control public enterprises, which obviously, here, for twenty years, no one can control, because they are a special fela, a special power, stronger than any ministry, they're actually stronger, they're materially stronger. The question has been asked – whether the company can use mixed property; they said – no, it cannot be a user of expropriation. All that can't change with a lex special, because a lex specialis can only keep a little quiet in the system of conditions that need to be met. That's what this is about. So our objections aren't, as you initially interpreted, that Vranje doesn't get gas. That's not our idea, but we want the law to be respected, especially since in Serbia for the past nine years there's been expansion, alongside other mob groups, and this energy mafia. That must be said and it is not Serbia's specificity, it is a simple trend. You know, for the past few years, so many things have changed in what's called infrastructure or traffic: well, the lower machine - the state, they can chase private locomotives; in the mail it's also something state-owned, something goes on private; in cable TV, something's state-owned, the other goes private; and in this too. We have bad experience with the price and the transport. As for the price, I would remind you that I was from 1998 to 2000 and that I had problems at the time when I was performing a function, since my ministry had control of the energy prices, so how many of them, the mediators, how much of them are being upgraded, etc. Furthermore, if something is regulated by law, which should normally be regulated by the government's decision... Because it's one thing to determine the general, it's now a public interest, it's that change because of the Constitution, and the other is a process of expropriation. The fact that when the Expropriation Act was amended, the bank guarantee was rejected because the state body cannot provide it, it's a good solution, but what you're trying to do with this law is legally impossible. That kind of legalization through the law as a special form you can't do. That is because this is contrary to some rules to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you are already calling for some international contracts, etc., you take care, not all international agreements, agreements or our ratification laws, confirming certain primate agreements in relation to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There, in part of the argument, someone has fooled you a little, because he tells you – based on this international contract we can step on some provisions of the Expropriation Act. It can't. Especially because this company that you place as a user of expropriation operates according to our regulations and our regulations apply to its business. If we even used the Foreign Investments Act, which he had frozen... You know, when a company is registered with foreign investment, conditions are frozen on that day. And that criterion to take, it's impossible again. Under some conditions you could have done this, with you making a thin difference between who is the user of the expropriation and who is the future end-user of the expropriation. When you do something through expropriation, then in another procedure you can transfer it to use, manage, make it available to any other person. But someone tricked you into going to this combination. Mr. Skundric, a public secret in Serbia, is that quite a number of people who worked in the ministry that has to do with this matter are on the payroll "Mola", "Yugogas", "Yugorosgas", near Hamovic and Lazarevic, it seems to me that Vukcevic's daughter works at his firm in Italy. I don't want to go into those details, but it's too public, especially after the Survey Committee that was investigating energy business. For your information, no one would have found out that Bozidar Djelic had not delivered the documentation relating to the National Savings Bank, and then the topic was opened: buying, selling electricity, strategic positions in the oil industry, gas industry, etc. It's a public topic now. Today you really hurt us when you put in your wishes and usefulness, which no one disputes, absolutely no one challenges, as the main argument with which you say – we ask you to break the Constitution and the law by passing this law. That's what this is about. Of course we care about ending things in Serbia, but in Serbia, there is much more need for truth, justice and legality than any other name. It's a little pathetic to talk about some usefulness for the citizens of Kurzumlia, so that they can possibly get gas in the perspective, and they're all in the kitchen, spoken for; or for Blaze, Expension. When people listened to you today, they were nervous – where this man lives, what he says, that we carry on gas, etc. I'm just opening up to you on the subject. I don't want to reconsider a few things. Think about it. I'm saying, the gas distribution network that goes towards the household has some profile, regional, highway, as you call it, you won't mind me, there's another "fi", profile. Putting it in the ground is the same job. Absolutely the same job. From the point of view of the Lex specialist, you have this member where you're talking about the decision on expropriation, specifically for some territory, to be made by the competent authorities of the administration, the units of local self-government, and that denies the whole law. This law makes sense when the Republic is competent to decide when the Republic authorities are competent to decide on expropriation, but when the authorities decide on it, the local self-government unit, this law loses all meaning. He's absolutely losing every sense of meaning. Just to remind you, in the last amendments to this Expropriation Act, as regards the fair fee that is determined during the settlement, the Tax Administration has been inserted with its estimates and monitoring the movement of the market value of immovableity on certain territory, as an initial instance, that more finance departments in municipalities that run this procedure would not have done anything or engaged some alleged skills, not to tell you about it, but not to avoid that conflicting part, when in a non-pared court determines a fair fee. In this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act, there are also some good solutions that allow for the possession of pre-legality decisions on fair compensation, in order to be effective in carrying out a job, so that no one can block something because of two acres of its plot; God forbid it happens with the "South Stream", which is really an international project, is not our private front. At this point, it is much more important to carry out this procedure in a legitimate manner. Article 8. The law on expropriation, after purification, is precise. So expropriation is possible to make something of private property a state property. In order for someone to be the head of state property, he must be a state legal person: the Republic, the city, the province, the municipalities, etc. I agree, and a republican public enterprise that operates with state property. So in February of this month, I asked a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a woman who works for 30 years only on expropriation – what is your criterion in public enterprises, because jobs of general interest can also be done by private persons if they are legally entrusted with doing these jobs. Well, the law allowed these private buses to run around Belgrade, the law we passed in 2000. We insist only on legality, respecting existing rules, but you understand, by definition, it is impossible to come privately into the process of expropriation, and it is especially impossible in the process of administrative transfer of immovableity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-05-0.u29833	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11, the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas pipelines, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act and the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Economics. Dear People's MPs, the work continues on Monday 9 November, at 10.00 p.m., by discussing the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. Have a nice weekend. Good luck, good luck.
