ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16976	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of members present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please wait 30 seconds after giving the character to determine the quorum and checking that the screen, after you have inserted the identification cards, appears that the identification has been confirmed. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall. The sound signal you heard was a sign that the system was registered by 84 MPs, and currently it's 88 MPs, so there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Velimir Ilic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Vitomir Mihajlovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Miladin Avramov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vesic, Ljiljana Stanojevic and Jelena Cvetkovic, Assistant Minister, then Ivica Radovic, State Secretary, Danica Bacanovic, Assistant Minister Momcilo Zivkovic, Director of the Environment Agency and Željka Juric, Director of the Environment Fund. We move to a joint principled search of 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 agenda points – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF LIFE, ON THE PROTECTION OF THE FISHING OF THE FUND, ON THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT OF LIFE, ON THE PROTECTION AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE FISHING OF THE FISHING FUND AND ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF LIVE CENTER AND ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE FUNDS AND ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE FUNDS AND ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLICTION OF THE PUBLICES AND THE ENTS OF THE PUBLAININGS OF THE PUBLICES OF THE PUBLISHING MEETALS, THE PUBILATION OF THE PUBLICES OF THE PUBLICES, THE PUBLISHING A ENTAL A ENTAL A ENTY-POTS-POTS-POTS-POTS-POTS-POTS, THE COMPS-P, THE COMPS-PS-P, THE COMP, THE COMPS-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-P-S-S-S-S-S-S-P-S-S-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K-K- Are any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. National MPs, the electronic system is operational, so please file a word application on your system in order to register a name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16977	I would like to begin my presentation with the conclusion that these topics are very important and that we need to make the contribution they deserve, because every topic, especially the topic of ecology, deserves a special discussion, although Minister Dulic here has given an outstanding share of the measures taken on this plan. My opinion of the last time on ecology is the same, and now it's more economical to have this kind of discussion of these system laws on the agenda, but I don't think that in a united debate, in three minutes, it can be discussed equally about such important things as system laws, especially the law on air protection. Now I'm going to say something about information and a story about the Great Buck Channel. The big back channel is a very important problem and needs to be solved. That's what the Minister of Agriculture was talking about, and it's in his jurisdiction. There's no tone record. ) The Law on Environmental Impact Assessment was adopted in 2004, and entered into force in December 2004. The law addresses issues relating to the process of making and implementing decisions relating to the identification of indirect and direct environmental impacts, planned projects, and all in order to monitor, prevent, mitigate and limit adverse environmental impacts and human health. Therefore, the subject of impact assessment are projects planned and implemented, changes in technology, reconstruction, expansion of capacity, termination of work and removal of facilities, i.e. facilities and equipment that can have a major impact on the environment. The subject of the assessment is also projects carried out without a study on impact assessment, and they do not have the approval to build, or, for example, are used without obtaining a useful permit. The impact assessment is carried out on projects from industry, mining, traffic, tourism, energy, agriculture, forestry and water industry, waste management and municipal activities. The impact assessment shall be carried out for projects planned for the natural good and in the protected environment of the immovable cultural goods and other projects, in accordance with the specific regulation governing the list of projects for which the impact assessment is carried out. What is this new thing that brings about the amendment and the supplementation, and why are they complemented? Anyone who deals seriously and professionally with this matter would say that change is mostly cosmetic and that the only important change is made when it comes to reducing the period for obtaining consent to studies on environmental impact assessment. The first problem that arises in these changes is that the National Strategy for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and goods is not brought by the National Assembly, but by the Government, which is not good. Such an important strategy must be found in front of MPs representing all citizens of Serbia. Also, according to the proposal for a name and addition of this law, a report on the implementation of the National Strategy, which is submitted once every two years, the minister submits to the government and is not submitted to the Assembly. Another problematic proposal – The National Environment Protection Programme is brought by the Government, not the National Assembly. By prescribing the obligation to pay compensation for the protection and improvement of the environment on the basis of property rights, i.e. the right to rent a residential and business premises, for example, in Panchev, citizens are further punished for jeopardising their health, endangering the environment, while, on the other hand, the former bonds of payment of compensation, the owners of freight vehicles, i.e. legal and natural persons carrying out transport and transport of oil and petroleum products on the territory of the city, as well as raw materials, semi-products and products of chemical and other hazardous materials for industry and industry, would not be obliged to pay this fee. Thus, the principle of "polluter pays", Minister Dulic, as a proposing representative, sets as -- the victim is guilty, so let him pay. A strange approach, which violates the principle and division of responsibilities and the setting – the base on which environmental laws rely in the world. It's, I guess, a reward for someone who played sirens during the campaign. So, for the DSS, it's unacceptable that the law applies to someone and someone has to respect them and someone doesn't. It is known that all parts of the IPC system are not yet regulated by sublaws, which prevents the use of integrated permits, as one of the most powerful management instruments in the protection of the environment. Parts of Community Acquis on the protection of the environment, which are apparent not to be transposed into domestic law, or only partially, at the level of primary regulations, are transposed, refer to the application of the best available techniques of the emission limit values of polluting matter to water and air monitoring; a clear display of the positive and negative effects of application to all three levels, i.e. the state, rural, municipal and urban; identification and assessment of the causes of the problems occurring in the application of these regulations; recommendations for improving existing laws and sublegal acts, in order to achieve full transposition. It is more than necessary to stress here that any attempt to amend and supplement those rules, which have been publicly declared a high degree of consent with Community Acquis, without detailed analysis of their application, identification of the problems in their application and the causes of these problems, could result in what is today seen as "Romanian syndrome", i.e. covering existing EU requirements for harmonised law and returning to old practice, i.e. further away from the European Union's normative models. Such an attempt, or the result of such an attempt, would certainly not improve Serbia's position in the negotiating process with the European Commission. (President: Please, the microphone is off. ) I will say a few more criticisms that the DSS parliamentary group has made when it comes to environmental protection law and environmental impact assessment law. We all know that there is a project "Jugoleks", which is, in fact, a project that sees how many EU laws and regulations have been transported into the law of the Republic of Serbia, and as a result of activities in the transposition of those regulations, the following rules have been adopted: the law on strategic environmental impact assessment, the law on environmental impact assessment, all in 2004, with six regulations and regulations that regulate and supplement this law. My question is – why is the environmental impact assessment law changing without an analysis of the effects of application? We had an obligation to analyse the effects of the application from 2004 to 2009. However, in the light of the law, there is something that could be treated as an analysis of the effects of application, but it is indeed a shame, and I think that MPs deserve, even if the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, to find before them this analysis of the effects, because this is a very important part of our parliamentary work and Parliament's commitment to apply this law. The third law in that series is the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. There are seven regulations and regulations that are in addition to this law. Why have they not been adopted in 2007 and 2008 of the Monitoring Method and Method Regulation, the Regulation on conditions for applying the best available techniques, the Regulation on temporary limit values, air emissions for the first five years of harmonisation of certain economic branches? I must say that this project "Jugolex" has been done and parallel expertise has been done with a high quality assessment of the final text of the environmental law. Questions related to this law are – why no implementing rules have been passed, which are over 20, how many regulations have been passed during 2007 and 2008...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16978	I'm asking the MPs to stop the marbles and listen to their colleague while he's on the stand. It's really hard to follow, and it's hard for her to talk. Please respect the order of the National Assembly. Excuse me and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16979	So why didn't they bring executive regulations, over 20 of them? How many regulations have been passed from 2007 to 2008? Why does the law change without an analysis of the effects of 2004-2009? Why does the amendment of the law have 85 members, is it cosmetics, or is it a fundamental change? Why are changes in individual solutions not qualitatively explained? Why is analysis of the effects, I've already mentioned, so scarce? Why the amendments to the Law violated the concept of a applicable law, so-called Integrated approach? As a representative of the political parliamentary DSS party, I am afraid of "Romanian Syndrome", which is, in fact, the "squaring" of the law, that laws and regulations, which are in line with the European, with the EU, are already moving away from this original text and from being so harmonised. I have here as fully as any law in accordance with EU law. They're very high percentages. I'm afraid this is what's ruining it. I'll say something about air quality, air protection law. I'm doing all this, around, conscious, running a marathon race, competing with a time of 20 minutes and talking about system laws that are and how important they are. The quality of ambience air, above all, in urban environments, is measured by the quantities and emissions of sulfurdioxide, carbon dioxide, alcodioxide, soot, dusty organic and non-organic matter, which are mainly from thermal plants, from industry, traffic, combustion in individual boilers. So we have extremely large contaminants, say, thermal plants in Obrenovac, Kolubari, refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad, we have chemical industry, metallurgical complexes in Panchevec, Kruševec, Bor and Smederev. We have a lot of problems with air pollution where cement can be found. These days, when we talk about these environmental issues, we have some of these principles. The issue of Koseric is often mentioned, and I think we should comment on these things, because the public is in the work and how important it is, and we will later, after this point, have a public story on the public work in the field of environmental protection, so I will use the link between it. Generally, complaints from citizens living in those cemented environments are coming to the Committee on Environmental Protection. We have a story from Koseric. Generally, complaints relate to the non-fulfilment of the provisions that were related to the purchase contracts, when these cement stores were sold. They had an obligation to modernize their technology and only then enter into the memory story that they signed with this ministry. Of course, Koseric did not do what was his obligation. The public in Koserić was not aware of what was going on, and there was a cretin there somewhere. The ministry signed a memorandum with cements to solve the problem of waste streams. So far, there has been no solution to that, and that is one way to approach this problem, and I think that's okay. However, it was specified in the Memorandum that, according to the experience applied in other countries, developed countries, alternative fuels, beside tyres, would be used waste oils, as well as other raw materials, wastes, approximately up to 12% of the total energy consumed from these sources. Of course, it's a priority to protect the environment, to control how and what it's done, how it's used, what comes out of the chimney where all this is going down, and that's something that needs to have an uninterrupted insight. I remind you that the public of the work is something that is important and important in all of this and that the ministry and the Assembly should play their part. Citizens need to know one more thing, that it doesn't matter what goes in like fuel, but what goes into the air. This project of burning oilcox in Koserić, in fact, happened to appear dioxin, which is toxic, but when high combustion is done, at a temperature of 1400 degrees, with adequate process management, it is released in a very small amount. Much more dangerous in this regard is the dioxin that is released at low temperatures and outdoors, such as dumps, containers, and Belgrade and all major cities in Serbia have this particular problem that during the winter period, it is constantly quieting or burning content, and that is one of the things that citizens need to know about and should take care of. That story about Koseric is also about cements in this country. I think you really need to take care of that when some of the following times control what is done and how it is done in cements. Otherwise, under the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, all industrial branches will have to adapt their technology to the standards set by this ministry by 2015, as this is the only way they will get these integrated permits. It's very important to say. When it comes to measuring, I think the minister said pretty much what all the measurement stations are like across the country, and that's okay. You don't have to waste time on that. I mean, I have to comment on that, but given the time I have is my MP's group, I can't get into it. I have to say what causes our problems – the lack of compliance of our regulations in the field of emissions with EU directives, then, the lack of waste gas treatment and the low efficiency of existing treatment devices in the industrial and energy sectors, the use of outdated technologies, for this is an example of Koserić, a lack of incentive measures to reduce emissions and completely irrational traffic management, as well as inadequate maintenance of vehicles, poor quality of motor fuels. There's another very important thing. It is important to introduce differentiated compensation for the price of lead and unleaded gasoline and, gradually, eliminate lead fuel completely by 2010. It is, of course, our obligation to also stand in the National Programme for the Protection of the Environment. It is possible to focus these revenues on protecting the environment in this regard. What is still very important, in itself, this law is not bad and cannot be commented on in that sense, but should work on its improvement. After all, the Parliamentary Group has made several amendments in that direction. But what in doubt leads to all this effort and great work on this, and for that, first of all, to comment, is the lack of financial resources to implement this law, to find itself as a living law in a system of environmental protection. It seems to me that both industry and traffic, metallurgy itermoenergy, are already on the verge of a full task, in the sense that they are already so materially burdened that we can't really impose new demands on them. They are, in fact, on the verge of collapse because of the very successful financial and economic measures of this government, so if we put additional conditions on them now, I don't know if we're going to have the effects we expect, and we're just setting them up, I don't know how much it makes sense. We have no money. We can have a great law, we can have the widest social support, I don't know any parliamentary group that won't support something that contributes to improving the environment, but all of this remains a dead letter on paper if we can't financially support it, and I'm afraid that's exactly the problem. On the other hand, I'm not going to go into that story again until the end, but there are some other things to comment on about this law. What gives hope is that large pollutants are already burdened with the costs of applying new technological solutions and are indeed reducing pollution. It's going very slowly and it's very complicated, in the end, for all these reasons I've led, the full inability of the government to help them in that direction. Also, integration and authorisation dynamics have been established by 2015 for all major polluters per sector. It gives hope that it can come out of this; monitoring and inspection monitoring of measurement are already being carried out and it will not take 24 months to revive, and it is already quite a living system and should be given the opportunity, little improvement and legal basis to make it work. Something about the noise protection law. Simply, I think it's a law that this country has been waiting for a long time, especially urban environments, because night and day noises are nightmares of almost all major environments, big cities, Belgrade in particular, and only a few basic facts should be commented on. What's that, legally, noise? It's a subjective feeling caused by any unwanted sound created by the mechanical flashing of the elastic medium between 16 and 20,000hertz. It's already science. There's no reason not to tell her. The effects of the noise and how destructive they are for a man. They can be physical hearing loss, they can be easier consequences – psychological, and, of course, can lead to depression, increased blood pressure, can be really very serious and deep, and therefore the state had to give an answer in the form of this law, because, of all the sources in urban areas, traffic makes 80% of the noise. I think that, in that sense, it is also important to take care of the traffic law, because it is very important to comment publicly. I've been in someone else's time, and I'm very sorry about that, because I'd like to comment on a little bit of this sustainable use of the fish fund. We and how we have capacities in this area, but, unfortunately, with one stupid work and a relationship – slowly, everything will be resolved by itself, there were few results. Practically, this fish fund was left to fishing associations, who had mastered either one or the other, and that some industrial capture was very little applied. I think we have the capacity to do something to improve the health of our citizens that way. What's the problem with fishing? Still, low capacity of the fisheries sector within the competent administrative authority, these are both personnel and material-technical problems, then, low professional capacity of fisheries users, non-compliance with the rules in the area of fisheries and rules on nature protection, non-discipline of professional and recreational fishermen. Speaking of which, I have to give my regards to the minister from several fishing associations, who have asked for meetings with MPs, it seems to me that this is the first time that has happened, and who have commented on these fishing exams, believing that this is something that is completely inapplicable and ridiculous, that should be responded in this sense. We, as a parliamentary group, reacted that way, and we threw it out, in fact we had an amendment effect on it. A very important first step in introducing order in this area is the adoption of an adequate law. We need to protect the natural surfaces, revitalize existing water zones and eco-systems, and we need to ensure maximum reproduction of the fish fund. We have an administrative problem on how to do this, and that's why this law is very important to us. What should be the objective of this law? The management of the fish fund in fishing waters covers both protection and sustainable use and transport of fish, sustainable use of fisheries resources. Conditions for carrying out economic, recreational and sports activities are laid down, as well as fishing for scientific research purposes, conditions for carrying out the transport of fish are laid down, effective supervision shall be established, which shall include the rights, duties and powers of inspectors, and criminal policy shall be strengthened, which shall be one of the ways that may, perhaps, be commented, but I think it should be taken into account. What's our question? This law lays down and declares fishing areas for the purpose of the sustainable use of fish stocks in fishing waters. Those areas are established by the minister. We're not sure that's okay. It applies them to the use of a company or a public undertaking, which coordinates the fee for the use of the fishing area, and to the Environment Protection Fund 15% of the financial amount of the cost of licences for commercial fishing, and 10% of the cash amount for recreational fishing licences. I know that this license right now is about 5,000 dinars and it's 10%-500 dinars. Fishermen say there will be problems, because the state and this government have practically taken everything in their normal lives and are now deepening them when they go to heal their nerves on the water. That's how they order, and I carry what's the message. So, if the minister, under the bill, can give or withdraw the fishing area to the user, it seems to us that this is a bad solution, because in that case there may be various abuses, misinformation and everything else, and that is why we have invested this amendment in this way. The proposal for a law, as one of the measures for the protection of the fish fund, lays down a hunt for all or for certain fish species in the fisheries area, as well as a ban on fishing for fish that do not have the required size. It's been a case so far, it just needs control and inspection services to let it work. Fishermen say that they are the best control on water, because when they are on water, then there is no stealing fish; those who really steal fish do not fish in that way, but use other means, which are not allowed. Also, the minister declares fish farms in certain parts of fishing areas, which again seems to be a bad solution. I think it should be done in a better way to resolve this issue. Thus, the law also lays down measures for the conservation of eco-systems of fishing waters, prohibits the release of harmful and dangerous substances and other agents that would disrupt physical, chemical, biological and ambienceal decisions, thereby disrupting the quality of water. I think that's the important part, first of all, because every spring, by spraying fruit, by using various means that improve the quality of the country, we have a problem with water poisoning in a variety of ways. The Ministry in this area has to make the most of the accounts, because we have in this country and so on. Dead water, but we also have rivers that have preserved both their capacity and their healthy water. I come from Valjev, we have Gradac there, which is also how healthy and clean water is, and the Ministry in that part really has to work to preserve these waters and to improve the quality of water in other places. It's one way to control, control and control again; I really think it should be done. We must finally do something to protect the environment in Serbia. In the case of expert examinations which are mandatory for inspectors, for fishermen, for fishermen, we have yet another part of which we have had an amendmental effect, which is that fishermen have their deputies. These deputies don't have any markings, at least the law doesn't provide for any jurisdiction, and yet they go with the fishermen to help them. I think those people can then be threatened, not caricated, but from a variety of experiences. It should be taken into account that if the fisherman has such characteristics and a certain type of protection, his deputy must have them, too, i.e. in any way to establish, perhaps, a lower level of that protection, but it must be taken care of. All I've said is a complicated and complicated system, and what's mine and the dilemma of my parliamentary group is jurisdiction over this law, because it seems to me that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning is in charge here, and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture. My experience, as an MP, and my parliamentary group, which this law has considered and which will still be spoken of in the course of this session, is that where competences are intertwined and where they are not strictly determined, we have complete discrepancies, we have no control over the system, and it is our obligation to have it, as a state, because only when we have that control can we enforce the law. That's it. We'll talk about it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16980	Thank you. The time used is 28 minutes and 30 seconds, of which seven minutes was used from the time of the parliamentary group, one minute you were right because you were interrupted because of the marbles in the O.R. Is anyone else picking up? (Yes) Please, MP Zorana Mašić, press your application for a word so that you may receive a word on your MP's unit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16981	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I also join the opinion here and I express my views that this debate, united with this number of laws and, in some way, with heterogeneous laws, and largely by matter, does not really make any real sense, nor can it properly inform the public about what we in the National Assembly are making, what is the essence of these laws, while for those who prepare this kind of debate, it means that they speak in principle of the most important and most important things of these laws, it is also quite difficult. I will try through my exposure to give an analysis of the key things in these draft laws that we are discussing today, precisely for the public, because I think that during this period as we discuss it, it is not in the right sense that what is most important is apostrophyd. And I'm also forced, because of the time I have at my disposal, to read the material that I've prepared, even though it's not my practice so far, because I've been trying to, exactly, to explain what's most important; given the magnitude of it, I'm simply forced to do it. I apologize to all of you. First, I will talk about these two laws that are complemented, meaning, the amendment and additions to the Environmental Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, because I think they have some kind of organic connection, and then the proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Air, the Proposal for a Law on Nature, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Noise and, ultimately, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of a Fishy Fund. In the Republic of Serbia, the environmental protection system is governed by the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which, by the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution, constitutes a set of rules in the field of environmental protection, as well as sublegal acts adopted under this law. The reasons for the adoption of amendments to the Environmental Protection Act are: removing the shortcomings observed during the application of the Environmental Protection Act, harmonising with other system laws in the field of environmental protection, the adoption of a new law on air protection, nature protection, noise protection and chemicals. Basically, the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Environment have been passed on to these laws, which makes sense that this law, in that sense, should be amended. The amendments to the law are also related to the transposition of EU rules into the domestic legal order, then, by ensuring the legal certainty of all economic operators carrying out an action that pollutes the environment, so that it will not pay for pollution twice, means, through compensation, and by tightening criminal policy. The law lays down and distinguishes the competences of the authorities of the Republic, the autonomous province and the units of local self-government relating to the production of strategic and planning documents, the establishment and management of the information system. The proposed solutions in the Amendment to the Law will affect the economy, i.e. operators, of the facilities in which activities in which certain quantities of hazardous substances are present, or their obligations to inform, plan and implement protection measures against chemical accident. Thus, these provisions increase the safety of the operation of these plants, which has a positive impact on the reduction of the risk of a chemical accident, i.e. on more effective implementation of the prevention measures in the event of onset. The proposed solutions will have a positive impact on the economy, i.e. users of natural resources and pollutants, as the compensation for pollution and compensation for the use of natural resources will be explicitly paid under Articles 84 and 85 of the Law. The proposed amendments to the Law ensure the responsibility of environmental protection entities, on the one hand, and the competent authorities of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the units of local self-government, on the other hand. Next, the proposed changes will specify the status of the Environment Fund, as well as its sources of funding and use of funds. The Environment Fund was established by the Environmental Protection Act and became operational in 2005. The experience of Central European countries, meaning Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, shows that the establishment of the Environment Fund has enabled the collection of more significant funds and acted as a catalyst for essential investments, through the approval of favourable loans and grants for investment in environmental protection. The practice so far has shown that there is a need to address the problem of unintended use of funds, especially in municipalities that generate large revenues from the pollution regulation, the criteria for calculating environmental pollution charges to bonds, heights and method of calculating and paying compensation. Amendments to Article 100. The law found that the autonomous province and units of local self-government are obliged to form a budget fund, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system, which will be financed from the fees made and the funds will be used in accordance with the programme adopted by the competent authorities of local self-government units, with the previous consent of the ministry. Also, by prescribing higher penalties for commercial offences and violations and by giving greater authority to environmental inspectors at all levels, more effective enforcement of environmental protection regulations will be possible. The environmental impact assessment law addresses issues relating to the process of making and implementing decisions relating to the identification of direct and indirect impacts on the environment, planned projects, and all in order to monitor, prevent, mitigate and limit adverse environmental impacts and human health. The subject is the projects of change in technology, reconstruction, expansion of capacity or termination of work and removal of facilities and equipment, which can have a significant impact on the environment. The subject of impact assessments are projects implemented without a study on impact assessment and do not have the approval to build or use without the use of permission. According to the legislator, the reason for the amendments and additions to the Law is also a more high quality regulation of the environmental impact assessment system, with the need to better regulate the roles of different actors in the process of assessment, their rights and obligations, as well as their mutual relations. The amendments to the law will more precisely define the role of applicants, in terms of their legitimacy to the competent authorities, as well as the links to institutions that care about implementing rules in the area of space planning, urbanism and building facilities. A more precise definition of certain provisions of the existing law enables the competent authority to work more efficiently, in terms of making timely decisions in the spirit of regulation in the field of environmental impact assessment, which will ultimately result in a sensitive reduction in the period of agreement in the environmental impact assessment study. It is planned that, upon receipt of a request for approval in the impact assessment study, it is simultaneously formed by the competent authority, the Technical Commission for the Review of Studies, which also contributes to the acceleration of the procedure, taking into account the provisions of the existing law which require the establishment of a technical commission only after public insight and public presentation. It is also possible for the competent authority to set minimum environmental protection measures through solutions to be released from an impact assessment study. This would avoid the possibility that, due to two or three measures of environmental protection, a study on impact assessment is required and thus increases the costs of the procedure and drastically extends the time limit until the final completion of the procedure. The adoption of air protection law regulates air quality management and determines the measures, methods of organisation and control of the implementation of air quality protection and improvement, as natural values of general interest. The Law on Air Protection aims to establish, maintain and improve a uniform air quality management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia; to preserve and improve air quality through the identification and achievement of measures in the field of protection, to prevent or reduce the adverse effects on human health and the environment; to avoid, prevent and reduce pollution affecting ozone layer damage and climate change, then to monitor, obtain and assess relevant air quality data based on measurement and standardised methods; to ensure availability of air quality data, to carry out obligations in accordance with certified international contracts and ultimately to international cooperation in the field of air protection and to improve air quality and to ensure the availability of such data to the public. What's the state of air pollution with us? According to a report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia in 2007, air in the Republic of Serbia during 2007 was mostly polluted by 9.3% and highly polluted – 2.4%, and that, above all, due to emissions of soot. This is a feature of most of the urban environments in the Republic of Serbia, and in 2007, the most pronounced cases were Užice, Sevojno, Subotica, Belgrade, above all, Vračar municipality, and Pančevo. The polluted and highly polluted air due to sulfur dioxide is a dominant phenomenon for Bor, but the same pollution is present both in Belgrade and Kostolc. Air pollution due to nitrogen dioxide during 2007 was present in Belgrade and Cacca. During 2007, there was a slight increase in ground ozone concentration compared to the previous period. The ground-floor ozone is one of the most studied pollutants, as it represents the best indicator of total pollution in urban environments, especially in the warmer part of the year. In order to protect the stratospheric ozone layer, a record of imports and consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer began in the Republic of Serbia in the 1990s. The trend of the decrease in CFC consumption, i.e. chlorofluorocarbons, since 1996, and in particular the reduction occurred in 2007. In nine cities in the Republic of Serbia, the concentration of pollen grains in the atmosphere is regularly monitored, and results suggest a steady increase in pollen levels of plants. The pollen of plants is one of the most important allergens in the air for a man. Pollen grains in more than 20% of the human population cause allergic reactions. A negative impact on the health of people caused by the pollen of certain plant species of the classification of this particle into natural air pollutants. The law should prevent further air pollution where it is already polluted and improve its quality by taking appropriate measures of protection. In areas where air is relatively clean, such air quality should be maintained. To that end, it is necessary to establish a uniform functional air pollution monitoring and control system and to maintain a comprehensive database, to carry out appropriate measurements of polluting matter, to assess the quality of air quality and to determine the area according to the quality of air, as well as to adopt appropriate planning documents, which provides, above all, the competent authority from the Republic to the local self-government unit. Air pollutants have an obligation to take preventive and other technical measures to protect air from pollution, to provide adequate emission measurements, to monitor the impact of performance on air quality, and to keep records of polluting substances released into the air or used to carry out their work, and then to keep records of the operation of the air pollution prevention or reduction devices in air and measuring devices for continuous measurement and to provide such data to competent authorities. The legislator argues that the state of business in Serbia has been taken into account, so a member who prescribes the adoption of emission limit values provides that existing sources of polluted air may prescribe the allowable excesses of the emission limit values of polluting substances and set a time limit within which those values must be reduced to the level of limit values. Another indicator of respect for the state of the economy is the operator's obligation to draw up a plan for operators to reduce emissions and stationary sources of pollution, in which the operator will provide for its own measures and means to invest in the reconstruction of the plant, including the deadlines in which these measures will be taken. In the transitional and final provisions of this bill, the government undertakes to adopt the first air protection strategy within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the first national programme – within one year from the date of the establishment of the maximum national emissions at the annual level for the Republic of Serbia, the first national emission reduction plan from existing combustion plants, also within one year from the date of the maximum emissions being determined. First, the air quality assessment will be carried out within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, and the air quality information system will also be established within two years of the date of entry into force of this law. Proposal for a law on nature protection. This law should achieve the following objectives: protection, conservation and improvement of biological (genetic, spectial and ecosystem), geological and landscape diversity; coordination of human activities, economic and social development plans, programmes, bases and projects with sustainable use of renewable and non-renewable natural resources and long-term conservation of natural ecosystems and natural balances. Then, sustainable use and management of natural resources and good, ensuring their function, while preserving the natural values and balances of natural ecosystems; timely prevention of human activities and activities that can lead to permanent poverty of biological, geological and landscape diversity; identification and monitoring of the situation in nature and improvement of the state of damaged parts of nature and landscape. The draft law lays down measures to protect nature, which are carried out by establishing and assessing the situation, the occurrence and process in nature and the area, the establishment and establishment of protected natural resources and the system of monitoring their protection, the implementation of nature protection measures, the setting of conditions and measures for the protection of nature and protected natural resources, the sustainable use of natural resources, the production of reports on the state of nature, the adoption and implementation of strategies, programmes, action and recovery plans and management plans, the mitigation of the adverse consequences resulting from activities in nature, the integration and coordination of the national nature protection system with the international nature protection system. Given the time I have at my disposal, please the chairman, I will continue, and it will be reduced by so much time, that I will not report later in the debate in principle, i.e. on the list of speakers. Natural goods are protected, according to this proposal, protected areas, protected species and mobile protected natural documents. Protected areas are a strict nature reserve, a special nature reserve, a national park, a monument of nature, a protected habitat, a landscape of exceptional features and a park of nature. Protected species are strictly protected wild species and protected wild species. The National Park is declared by the National Assembly, by law, and a strict and special reserve, habitat, a natural well-being that is protected by international acts or has international significance, an area of exceptional qualities in which it is culturally well-known, as well as a nature park on the territory of two or more units of local self-government, the Government declares, on a proposal from the Ministry, according to the respective ministries. The management plan for the protected area shall be carried out by the controller, for a period of ten years. Legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons are required to perform activities in the protected area in accordance with the management plan. Before the expiry of the period to which the plan is to be adopted, its implementation and the results achieved shall be analysed and, if necessary, its audit may be carried out. Protection and conservation of wild species are also regulated by the proposal for this law and under the protection of the conservation of wild species means preventing all actions affecting the violation of the favourable state of the populations of wild species, the destruction or damage of their habitats, legal, nests, or the violation of their life cycle, or a favourable state. In the context of the protection of wildlife conservation, the establishment of a gene bank has been regulated. The gene bank, essentially, needs to preserve the genetic diversity of wild plants, animals and mushrooms, and banks need to keep biological material controlled or farmed populations, parts of plants, animals and mushrooms, slow seed, sex cells and other biological material used to preserve species, i.e. its genetic fund. I, as chairman of the Committee, have received from the significant authority of our country a memo that is currently referring to a bank of genes. This letter was signed by academician Prof. Dr. Dragan Skoric, then, Professor Dr. Vasilija Isylo, president of the Serbian Genetic Society, Dr. Milutin Pencic, president of the Agrogenju Association and Dr. Stojan Jevtic, vice president of the PKS, who point out that in our country, they are extremely reckless about the bank of the gene and that the competent ministries must take concrete steps. They suggest that the management of the national collection of plant genetic resources is inadequate, in some parts it is worrying. The National Collection has been formed by working on a sub-project for the needs of the Yugoslav plant gene bank since 1992. From that time to today, the species kept in the seeds are kept in conditions of plus five degrees and about 50% relative humidity. These conditions are laid down by international standards for the maximum length of up to 20 years. Since the samples have since 1992 been received from a collection of institutes and colleges where, by that time, they have also been kept, in such and even more unfavourable conditions, and it is not apparent that the samples are processed according to the prescribed standards, descriptors, so that a basic collection can be formed for over 50 years, and that is minus 20 degrees, there is a real risk of losing the national collection, or, at the very least, its full awareness as a base. Therefore, they suggest that a comprehensive debate be opened urgently on the state of genetic resources of Serbia, to form a national body, advice, commissions and so on for genetic resources, and to urgently access the national programme, to define the status and function of the gene banks at the location of Gornji Zemun, and to urgently take action to prepare personnel for work on genetic resources, then to open a scientific and research project that would relate to the use of genetic resources and to form the body of the plant and genetic resources administration, i.e. to provide conditions for meeting the obligations of international co-operation. For this reason, I also ask Minister Dulic, and this will certainly be directed to Mr Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, to do this seriously in the coming period and to rightly resolve the formation, preservation and maintenance of the gene bank. Since my time has already run out, I've been forced to say nothing, in fact, about the proposal for a law on protection against noise in the environment. I hope that's what my fellow MPs will talk about. I will give another brief review of the proposal for a law on the protection and use of the fish fund. What I'm going to say is based on the comments and memos of the professional public, people who deal, first of all, with fishing and fish production, about this, let me say, the main elements of these people's objection, Mr Dulic was also reported. Respecting the fact that these people have spoken to me, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and as a People's MP, I am obliged to make this public here. First of all, the objection concerns that the proposal for a fisheries law should be passed in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, because in most European countries fishing production is regulated by law and the bill promoter is the agriculture ministry. Furthermore, the bill that has been submitted to us for the most part is, I should say, prescribed by the existing Fisheries Act and it, essentially, mostly through the provisions speaks of all elements of fishing production, not of what is the primary jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment Protection – means, protection of biodiversity, first of all, animals in the ecosystem. Fishing production is animal production, like any other production, or fish is provided as a food, fish meat, and our country cannot be boasted that it is a significant producer. We still import significant quantities of fish meat, and objectively we have resources for controlled fish farming, so, in ponds. Also, on a much larger scale, fish could be fished out of river streams. Finally, I will only read the regret that I did not have the time to present everything in detail, i.e. in the light of the above, in order to harmonise the domestic regulations and institutions of the Republic of Serbia with the regulations and lessons gained from the EU and the rest of the developed world, the uninterrupted sustainable development of fisheries and the improvement of environmental protection, for which, of course, they are an example of an environment country: the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, BiH, Macedonia, because they have developed fisheries, almost similar climates, with almost identical problems in both areas. In this respect, the content of the fish protection law, the maintenance and use of the fish fund throughout the text should be taken into account, as regards the Fisheries Act and fisheries matters, means fishing, sports-recreative and commercial hunting, fishing tools, transport of this food market, fishing areas where fish protection is uncontested. It is certainly necessary to pass a new fisheries law, which, as so far, would solve all issues in the area of fisheries and the protection of the use of fish, as is the case in other countries. In relation to all this that has been presented in this letter, unfortunately, which I could not fully pass on to you, and in relation to the number of amendments submitted and opinions by competent and professional public in the area of fisheries, it is proposed that the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund should be withdrawn from the procedure, because of the non-compliance with the EU regulation, international contracts and applicable regulations of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water management form a working group for the development of a new fisheries law, which would include representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. I thank you for your patience, and I apologize for such an overrun of time; of course, it is to the detriment of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16982	Thank you. The time spent from the time available to the MP's group is 10 minutes. The word has a Minister Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16983	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, thank the distinguished professor, thank you and Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. I think these were two very good statements and there are a few things I'd like to look back on behalf of the Ministry. First of all, I'd like to answer to the professor. We carefully read the memo you gave us. Of course, it's just one segment of the expert public opinion. What our remark on the memo on the matters of competence of the two ministries, on the one hand, the Ministry of Environment, on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, is that this law, which defines the fish fund as a natural resource, as a resource of the environment, wants us to define behavior in nature and it has nothing to do with aquaculture, or fish cultivation. We hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, within the framework of the law on livestock farming or a special law that would define the issue of fish farming, will define all these issues that you have raised. When you gave us comparative examples of other countries in Europe, it is true that all countries in Europe are the issue of fish farming, which represents the very process of aquaculture, defines the laws proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and that they are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. We define this law only a question of how to control and deal with the fish fund, which is a segment of the environment. We can also give you our written answer to the memo you sent us. I think you will find in it all those other European directives that we have called upon and all those comparative examples from the practices of other countries with which we agreed our legislation when we wrote this law. There were a few issues that were open, on which I think maybe we should give an answer. Speaking of the law that defines the fish fund, I would like to say that, as Ministry, we have accepted Mrs. Vojic-Markovic's amendment as regards the mark of volunteers. I think it's a good amendment and thanks to it we're going to define the issue of volunteering and thus give them the formal power to give their volunteer energy to preserve the goods they manage, in a way, and formalize, in terms of some of the forces that these badges would give them. I thank you for that amendment, he is good and he will be accepted from our side. We talked about several, too, important topics related to other laws. I would refer again to the question of redistribution of funds concerning the income of the Environment Fund, i.e. local funds. During the weekend, we prepared several partnerships with countries that were in the EU accession process, which were in the process of reform, in general, awareness of the environment and the necessity to change and define these issues in another way. There were no decentralised environmental funds in any of the countries located in the area of European integration. There is no practice, only in Serbia was 60% of the local budget. We have another problem as a state, which is that we are convincingly champions and records as to a small percentage of our environmental budget. In Serbia, only 0.2% of gross social product is allocated to the environment, the European average is about 2%, so 10 times higher, and there is indeed a huge problem when such small resources, which are necessary for the recovery of the environment, amid different types of activities, are decentralisedly redistributed to municipalities, which are very often spent by non-intentional municipalities. We have brought examples of all countries, from Lithuania, Belarus, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and the former Yugoslavia. There is income everywhere that goes on the basis of the tax paid by the polluter of the income of the Republic's environmental fund, i.e. the state budget. Local revenues represent fees charged by local environmental inspectors, based on penalties. For the Panchev example you've given, I think it's good to say that it's true that a local environmental tax is being introduced, but it's going to be somewhere between 50 pairs and one dinar per metre square, and we don't think it's a big burden for citizens, and that way we'll be able to fill local environmental funds from which different kinds of projects should be financed, which, unfortunately, because of this little budget we have, we're not able to finance today. We talked about cementers, and again I want to make sure that at this point, except for the memoirs we signed with cements and completed environmental impact assessment studies, which allowed for the insineration of tyres in two cements in Serbia, in which Koseric is not, there is no burning of any alternative fuels, or waste, regardless of what the cementists have applied for to make an assessment of the environmental impact on waste oil burning. Those estimates have not yet been approved by the ministry, even one of those acts has been annulled. When the environmental impact assessment is done, we will publicly, as we have done so far, present it to you. I really want to express my gratitude to you for coming out with the data that we should all be standing behind, because it's simply a scientific fact, which is that at such high temperatures as exist in cement plants, there are no dioxins; they are created much more in home bars, in dumps or in car exhaust gases than they are created when they are defined under such controlled conditions. You said the objective of amending and supplementing the law that defines the impact assessment on the environment is to shorten procedures, and that's true. We are only very proud that we have managed to shorten the whole procedure from 250 days to 100 days and a few days, so 104 days, and that we have remained within the framework of the European Directive and have not violated something that has been harmonised in our legislation with EU legislation. In the next few weeks, I hope no more than two months, you will see this ministry again, this time with a new law on planning and construction, which should define this second, too, important issue, the issue of building permits. We hope that, together with this law, when we are able to reform both this area of construction and urbanism and define much shorter procedures for issuing building permits, we will indeed do this final and necessary reform because, unfortunately, because of very long procedures, because of the arbitration of the administration, because of the great degree of corruption that existing laws have allowed, our country today lies at the very bottom of the world scale when it comes to the process of issuing building permits and the abuse of environmental impact assessment. Very often the local administration, this very powerful instrument that was to be used to protect the environment, was abused in the process of issuing building permits for construction buildings. So when we find ourselves in front of you, very quickly, with the new law on planning and construction, then we will end up, or round up a legislative activity that should contribute to resolving this area as well. Another note. We cannot look at these laws, or the purpose, of their adoption, only through legal texts. It is true that this ministry has proposed laws that are "the umbrella", i.e. roof laws, on the basis of which sublaws, adopted by the minister, the government, according to different kinds of regulations, are essentially defining the new ecological policy that I was talking about. Chuck, I think that's a good thing when we speak from the point of view of position and opposition relations. One day, when this government is no longer a government, when it is another government, the minister, whatever parties it comes from, will be able, thanks to these roof laws, to change this ecological policy and bring its environmental policy, and there is no need for new laws to pass through Parliament. It's something that's ecological practice. It is simply a mechanism for environmental policy to be brought in sufficiently flexible and quickly, by changing it through the roof law through sublegal acts. As for the restructuring of the Environment Fund, a new law will be found before you very soon. It will be a law on the Environment Fund, which will allow the Fund to become some kind of rival fund, which should also help our economy, to help finance the introduction of new processes. As a ministry, we're very modest, often we don't want to brag. A few weeks ago, we brought to the government of the Republic of Serbia a strategy to introduce cleaner production. I also wanted to give an answer regarding the IBPC license issue. Here we are in a very dynamic phase in the existing law. The question is: has there been any study or analysis of environmental effects? There's been an elaborate. We've changed this law based on this elaborate. This elaborate has, unfortunately, shown what we all know, which is that the local administration, which needs to take care of the environment, very low capacity, and one of the essential activities of this ministry is the intensive education of local administration, giving not only the opportunity to learn a lot through professional seminars, but also to encourage local environmental inspectors to do their job. Unfortunately, the problem is that we have very few inspectors, as a Republic Inspector, and very often our republican inspectors do things that are within the jurisdiction of local inspectors, because there are not enough capacity. The Ay-bi-pi plants should adapt their technological processes to the standards existing in the EU by 2015. Just mentioned cementers, 2009 was supposed to apply when we entered intensive monitoring of their work. When we signed the Memorandum with cements, we defined that in 2015 it could be a year when cementists will also harmonize their technological processes and define everything they are standards, at least as far as air pollution is concerned, with standards that exist in the EU. I ask you to hold our thumbs together to succeed, insisting on strict law enforcement, but, above all, helping, in a way, and defining economic instruments, thus helping our economy in order to translate from old, outdated technological processes, you are absolutely right, what to do, that is our reality, into new processes painlessly for it. It will help me by, among other things, being able to form a much stronger and much more vital, more cooperative environmental fund, thanks to a law that will very quickly be in front of you. I've been trying to give you an answer to some questions. I thank you again for a very specific debate. I think we're going in the right direction, and the right direction is that, by accepting many of your amendments, we come to a law that will be truly broad and enforceable, that is, the consequence of some consensus that is being adopted between us. I would ask the heads of Parliament to sit down and discuss all these amendments during these few days. There are a lot of good amendments that we could accept to become an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16984	The word comes from MP Sasa Milenic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Group of MPs after him, MP Marina Ragus, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16985	I would first like to express my personal satisfaction that I am able to address you in the House of the National Assembly, in this building that represents Irkić's architectural dream about the possibility of a merger of the Byzantine tradition, the national rooted, and the European architectural culture of the West. This, I think, is particularly important as one message, because it is politically too little stressed that the northwest passage of the emancipation of our community, the path to Europe, is the shortest way to go through a return to its own civil heritage. At the same time, this move is the reason for congratulating the presidency, because it is the most concrete contribution to restoring dignity in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not because this building, perhaps as a set-up, acts like this, but rather marking a single border and a turning point in Parliament's work in this assembly. I ask the chairman to do as we do with my time as in the case of the previous speaker. My presentation in large part has already, on condition, been spent through the presentations of several speakers. I am fully accepting the basic idea presented in the presentation of the head of the ZES Group, Prof. Micunovic, chairman of the competent assembly committee, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and a good part of what the minister himself put on the subject in the exhibition. That's why I'm going to make sure that instead of a large amount of detail, just one red political thread of message over environmental laws I emphasize. First, my party "Together for Kragujevac" and our coalition partner G17 plus, integrally, Parliament Group G17 plus, in the voting day will support a package of environmental laws, but more than that. In fact, we want to give strong support to the popularization and implementation of these laws. We believe that, for at least three reasons, it is of exceptional social importance that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also include this package of environmental laws in our legal order. First of all, not least, but not insignificant, and rarely mentioned, the ecological area is an area of numerous manipulations. It is not a rare case that due to a valuable positive orientation towards the subject, due to its universal acceptance, many non-principle, non-organic political topics and interests are masked by environmental reasons and topics. I will not mention examples of such practice, which in certain details were also in this parliamentary debate, but by contributing to new constructiveness in the work of the National Assembly, probably the most attractive example of this species that we have today is the debate on global warming. You know that today, the president of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Klaus, is a direct advocate of opposing the broad popularity of the topic of global warming, believing that there is insufficient scientific evidence for this topic to be considered relevant. You know that there are no numbers of scientists who explicitly claim that this cannot be proved as a fact, that it is even quite controversial, if it was proven to be the result of human industrial and cultural action. So some very serious scientists say that a change in the climate, as a native being, with its industrial and civilization potential, can act regionally, but not globally. It's a very open question of science. Of course, there are scientists who take a completely different view, but it is not difficult to conclude that this topic and policy can be used to prevent the development of some who might, perhaps, in an economic, political, economic sense, become more competitive than in some other environments can be welcomed. In this sense, the large presence of environmental laws in our legal system means the presence of an environmental theme in public life, which means the obligation to inform and educate in the ecological field, and by expanding the knowledge fund only organised we can oppose manipulation and narrowing down the space for manipulation, in principle. Another significant reason for the strong support mentioned lies in the fact that this package sets the macroeconomic system of state measures. This is extremely important, because this provides a decent place in our order for quality of life issues. What is rarely seen is, in fact, that the key category that environmental laws are considering is, in fact, the category of space. The category of space is in modernity, in fact, understood as a category of fundamental importance to the existence of beings like man. In the era of modernity, this very category of space is understood as a human condition to open the concept of the world as a human environment. The modern era marked the understanding of the identity of man and his world. This means that, because it is so sensitive to the category of space, or environment, it is impossible in serious political treatment, or to edit the human world, to bypass the relationship to the category of space. But how did the traditional state of modern times solve and think, politically, about the category of space? Mostly, through a faceless, administrative, legal concept of state territory. This disenfranchisement of a place where a man, as a citizen, makes his essence speak, throughout a series of interventions and prove that, in fact, a citizen in such a order is, however, understood as a subject, and the sovereignty of such a community belongs to the sovereign. Not so small and short a series of interventions, it can actually be shown that it eth with six moi, in fact, is a direct consequence of such a notion of man, world and state in that world. Our constitution says something quite different, that the sovereignty of our republic springs completely from the citizens. This Parliament only executes it between elections or when it is not a referendum in the process, and that means that it is authorized to pass such laws that, according to citizens, it is just as this package of environmental laws does, it opens up an elementary, existential category of man in the world, a category of space, in a more humanised, perspective of disarmament and civility an appropriate way. The third reason is directly based on this thought, and comes from the Minister's exposé and calls for overstepping the given framework in thinking, dreaming, as future development and perspective of environmental laws. What we would like to note is that in such an ecological interpretation of space, there is one category missing, perhaps essential to man, and it seems to be for the ecological interpretation of his world, the space that is impregnated with emotions, memories, hopes, psychic realities, space that itself has a character of personality, and that is the space that is thought of by the term "inviolence". Political articulation of fertility, in every respect, even in the ecological field, can only bring about a policy of decentralisation. When we talk in the context of the discussion on the package of environmental laws on decentralisation, of course it means the fact that inspection supervision, and legislation, and fiscal policy should be increasingly more than entrusted to the original competences of local self-government in the ecological area, because there is a very strong motivation for that in the concept of 'violation'. I want to point out, actually, something more than that. What are the very potentials of the idea of decentralisation? We are really talking about it from a political point of view, because it increases citizens' participation in decision-making. We are talking about it, unfortunately, much less from an economic point of view, because local self-government and regions, many examples show, are more efficient local economic development carriers than it can be the central level of consideration and decision-making. There is also an emancipatory potential in the idea of decentralisation that is just contained in this thought of obscenity, which suggests that what in the 19th century was the idea of a class of combat and a class of liberation, which in the 20th century was the idea of decolonization and the entry of many communities into equal status in the international community, in the 21st century, could just be the idea of decentralisation. On this trail, and with respect to the overall time, I call on the environmental expert team of Minister Dulic and you ministers, personally, not to interrupt communication and co-operation after the adoption of these laws, because the Ecological Movement and the Movement for decentralisation are natural allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16986	The G17 plus parliamentary group has used five minutes from the time available to the MP group. I'm asking National MP Marina Ragush just to press charges for a word so she can get a word in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16987	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, what is most important to me in the context of the debate on the set of environmental laws is Article 74. The constitution of the Serbian state, which says everyone has the right to a healthy environment and to a timely and complete notification of its condition. Everyone, especially the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous province, is responsible for protecting the environment. Finally, in Section 3, everyone is obliged to protect and improve the environment. Since I'm prone to maps and plastic examples, I hope this time the lightning won't hit me if I show you a certain picture of the environment and a plastic example of what environmental pollution looks like. The place is White Field. This is a stone wool dump. Mr. Minister, about 600 people are about to come and remind you of what conditions they live and work under. I'll give myself freedom, risking survival, I suppose, to give you these photos to see what it looks like. By the way, I have to tell you that the former environmental minister came and visited this factory and declared it an ecological plant, which is the current, or current agriculture minister. These are examples, in fact, one of the examples of what kind of environment we all live in and how the state shows the willingness to solve these situations. You had the opportunity to hear a really detailed explanation the other day of everything that happened during the "Merciful Angel" campaign in the KIM territory, which for a long time, if not for a few generations, derivated exactly this 74th member of Serbia's Constitution. Many generations, therefore, after 1999, will experience health consequences 25 years later. The question is, indeed, since the state has not shown its will to deal seriously with this problem at international level, what air we breathe, what is the state of our land and what is the state of the environment. With that in mind, it's not just the poored uranium the main culprit for everything that happened as a result of the bombing during the 78 days of aggression. I promised you, however, I didn't arrive on Friday to call on certain foreign sources of direct participants in NATO aggression against the SRJ, so this time I'll take advantage of it. So it's a biological, chemical weapon used against the SRJ, and we have this based on the testimony of a Spanish pilot who operated a multi-purpose fighter plane F18. The gentleman's name is Adolfo Luis Martin de la Os and is the first NATO officer to speak about the use of chemical, biological and radioactive weapons. In his statement in the Spanish list, Martin de la Os, Articulo accused the governments of the countries that had committed aggression against the SRJ in 1999 for spreading false news of the war itself. He also provided information that killing civilians was not a mistake, Mr. Minister, but a plan. Several times, says Mr. de la Os, their colonel protested before NATO superiors for choosing civilian targets for bombing targets. He was thrown out with insults and threats that the United States would object to the Spanish army, first in Brussels, then in front of the defence minister. There is more, and I want to make this known to everyone, to the Serbian public, as well as to the MPs of the prestigious home. A coded order was given once by the US military to drop tape bombs on Pristina and Nis. 'Our colonel refused, and after a few days an order came for his transfer. All I'm saying now is nothing compared to what I'm going to say when the moment comes," claims Spanish Captain Martin de la Os. The Spanish officer said the Spanish government has not only tried to obtain accurate information, but has accepted false reports of its troops from the Air Force base, where a kind of military press office, led by US generals and officials, was placed. "Since we arrived in Italy, there has been no end to humiliation and insult. The only commanders are Americans and no one else. All the missions we were flying, all planned by senior U.S. Army officials. Moreover, they planned to do the least detail of the plans for the attack, the targets and the type of ammunition to be used. We never ran anything, our missions were limited to flying the borders of Macedonia, Bosnia and Slovenia. We read so many lies, so much contradiction, we agreed not to read any newspapers until we got back. Our anger is enormous. "The Prime Minister, foreign ministers and defences lie, without dawn, every time they talk about war. We have a different opinion and we believe that they are uninformed, because Americans, the White House, the Pentagon, the CIA, the embassy, the Military Security Service, don't report anything. How to get informed when Javier Solana himself hasn't even tried to inform himself since the war started. Solana was just a toy the Americans set up to do what they ordered him to do. A man does it peacefully, stands before General Clark when he speaks to him or when he gives him an order he must carry out without delay. The Americans there committed one of the greatest barbarics against humanity. We'll hear a lot of ugly things in the future about what happened, judging by what the English and German officers told us. The aim of the action was to divide Europeans and keep us subordinates for the next decade. That's why Captain Martin de la Os is very angry when he talks about the price of war, especially when he has to be recognized with extraordinary courage, because within his country and NATO alliance he has gathered enough strength and courage to gather all the soldiers who have witnessed, in fact, the most monstrous crime over sovereign territory – the SRJ. Our country, on Friday, I tried through a few evidences and arguments to say, indeed, there is, to say the least, a strange attitude towards it. In 2002 and 2003, an analysis was carried out of the blood of all soldiers located in the KIM territory, which were exposed under the 44th parallel to the constant bombing of the impoverished uranium. In 2003, the blood tests of those 600 soldiers showed frantic results. The project was abruptly shut down. These are all arguments for some future governments, who will be responsible enough for human life to launch very serious investigations, gather all these people, NATO officers, who are, above all, people, and gather enough information to sue those who are signatories of a terrible humanitarian disaster with far-reaching consequences. Speaking of which and dealing with people, it is simply amazing to me as a person that today in Serbia, as a priority, we are talking about a set of environmental laws. That you don't get me wrong, of course, and how it's necessary to make an umbrella law that will be a far-reaching strategy for this country and this people, but, you'll allow, with disdain, I must conclude that in the city of Belgrade, the first man in Belgrade, in a way that is against all humanitarian principles, a group of the Roma population is in a terrible position. Also, I think that there are extremely important topics for this House, for all of us, that 48 families should be placed in four containers. So nobody's talking about derogating rights, breaking what the law says, we're only talking about human relations, dignity, everything that the Constitution says in the work on human rights, as the highest legislative act. You'll forgive me all, but I just had to express awe, because it's about children, it's about people, and the perspective is that all those who don't have a place in Belgrade are brought back from where they came from. I would really like to draw attention to both the public and all of you who are still focusing on human principles, that this is also about families from KIM. They do not have a residence in Belgrade, they simply have no place to go, but now they belong, at the announcement of Mr. Gilas, in the risk category. So that's what the SRS Parliamentary Group has been trying to put on the agenda for months, but unsuccessfully, and it is daily life, burdened with the most difficult problems possible. We also have a terrible burden, which is on all of us, which knocks, and I suppose the greatest effects of the crisis will be felt between May and October this year. For example, one of the human rights corps is the right to inform. What, according to the first man in Serbia, should self-finance the current payment deficit of the planned 16.1% of gross social product in 2009, ladies and gentlemen, is foreign direct investment of around 1.7 billion euros and an additional net debt of 3.9 billion euros. Since Serbia also makes about 3.6 billion euros in debt in 2009 to finance our excessive spending, loans totalling 7.5 billion euros are needed. So, please, especially you, Madam Chairman, that within your parliamentary groups, especially MPs of the ruling majority, do everything you can to finally start talking about the modalities of the crisis that Serbia has fallen into, that, apart from what is impossible to reach a political agreement, create a political climate, together we find a solution to what we all find, that accident will touch us all, and it is existence and social security. We already have 67,000 people who were out of work by the end of 2008. The question is, no one can predict, how many companies are going to go bankrupt, how many katans are going to ring at the door of many companies? Ladies and gentlemen, I think these are the priority things this Parliament has to discuss. I'm not questioning the course that the ruling majority has defined. That's what people voted for in the May elections. A set of economic laws, Mr. Minister, is usually a set of my favorite and dear laws. For years, I have dealt with, among other things, this problem – how people's lives should look as dignified as possible. I am very confident that what is economic and social security – the top priority of all of us, even if it should be. What should be the task of all of us, too, is to reach a political agreement, with respect for something that is a tradition of parliamentaryism. With that in mind, the picture works, without opening the topic, there is no SRS MP here because someone remembered to overstep the rule that applies to the strongest opposition party in Parliament, because of the misunderstandings concerning seats, we are experiencing a constantly filthy media campaign. Anything we say positively, you won't find in the media. That's Serbia today. We are at the moment when it is necessary, because of those for which we have been given mandates, that we all call ourselves to our senses, to make a political agreement, to set priorities, and to begin to make it happen, without any perseverance, and, God forbid, hate. So, let me get back to the subject. I expected, knowing your reputation and your relationship to certain topics, to come up with certain reports, analyses, parameters, which will give me, among other things, a picture of what the real state of the environment is in Serbia. For years, I've been trying to see the parameters of what the real picture is, without expansing and creating problems where they're not there, and believe me, I've encountered certain problems myself. I also expected to get some information from you about what municipalities have purposelessly spent on protecting and improving the environment. As a person who respects democratic principles, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the answer to someone’s spending non-intentional funds is foreseen, according to the budget position, for a particular area, for having received reproof; in doing so, the Republic will then decide where it will go. You'll allow, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wrongs over the law, anyone who wastes unintendedly, must be responsible for it. The public must know that, because the environment is a framework within which we all need to move, respecting those basic principles, or assumptions that are necessary for everyday life, which is health. So I guess you'll give me an answer to that question and I look forward to it. What the public needs to know is that at some point it was working on a project of Serbia's sustainable development strategy, i.e. economic activities and the state of the environment in Serbia. You won't mind me if I use the time provided for my parliamentary group for specific data concerning both material and technical assumptions, and how much it costs, first, to resuscitate the environment, and then to improve the environment in which we all try to exist. The author of this project was Dr. Radmilo Pesic and, based on the indicators available to him, he performed a scan of the situation within the environment and gave some projections for the next 10-year or 15-year period, with very concrete data, and they speak of the fact that the laws we are trying to argue about these days, unfortunately, remain a dead letter on paper, because there will be no material assumptions for their implementation. So the various complex conditions of life support on the planet Earth, one called the environment, can be threatened by both natural geophysical factors and both anthropogenic, or social factors. There is a lot of evidence that mankind's economic activity is the main anthropogenic factor of the current environmental disorder on earth. Since the mid - 19th century, the antopogenic effects on the environment have become increasingly significant, and today they no doubt dominate. Of all economic activities, the greatest impact has to do with the production and use of energy in various sectors. The relationship between the state of the environment and economic activities becomes the subject of special scientific disciplines, which are dynamically developed since the second half of the 20th century. The economic activity of the environment in Serbia from half to the end of the 20th century does not deviate from the general global legality in this domain, moreover, it exhibits almost all the characteristics of all legality in a way that is unique to the countries of Southeast Europe and countries in transition. When we talk about it, we should consider the following characteristics. First, these are the attitudes that nature and its wealth need primarily to serve economic and social development. Then, the social imperative to master nature, the dependence of economic development on available natural resources, the lack of full cost of costing the use of natural resources, which is due to consistent application of the working theory of value. There is also the imposition of industrialization and urban lifestyle, with the breaking of traditional social forms, the high intensity of the use of natural resources and energy, the low efficiency of the transformation of the Imput, low exploitation of space and geographical advantages, intense growth of large cities and depopulations of smaller settlements. One of these characteristics is the insufficient control of the creation and disposal of waste, both communal and industrial, including dangerous, abandonment of international cross-border aspects of pollution and exploitation of natural resources, an incompletely established system of property rights over natural resources, a limited existence or inaccessibility of adequate data on the state of the environment and, finally, insufficient public involvement in the decision-making process on the economic exploitation of natural resources. When we talk about all these important factors, you will agree, gentlemen of the ministry, that all of this, which are 14 factors listed, was very few words in the Serbian public, and at the state level, mostly, attempts. I'm not saying that it's easy to solve environmental problems in a country that is burdened only by problems. I'm not saying that it's easy to correct the strategy and bring plans and activities in the country wherever you touch you open the process of connected courts. Simply, I want to see if a priority set of economic laws also means conductivity in practice in the state of Serbia, and whether it means that this "a umbrella" law, for some generations that come and for us, will be a long-term strategy or just the laws that this government is about to change, which would be a tragic fact for me. You will allow, it is also noticeable that not only do we have a well-founded government portfolio in terms of tape, guidelines, planning strategies, which change how the concept of government comes into power. We don't even have strategies that are enforceable. In that context, I'll move on. When it comes to the second half of the 20th century, the effects of economic development on the environment in Serbia can be seen both by segments, for example, by the effects of air, water, land, etc., and chronologically, through the consequences during different stages. What can differ is, in fact, three stages during which three layers of environmental damage were created in Serbia. The first stage is the socialist industrialisation stage, which begins with the nature of the reconstruction after World War II and lasts until the fall of the SFRY. For this stage, major damages are characteristic of all former socialist countries, and there is almost no specificity of Serbia except in the order and concentrations of pollution. Most of the damage to the environment in life occurred in this stage today is manifested in the form of pollution funds, i.e. is a problem, so-called. ecological heritage, or historical pollution, particularly delicate in terms of restructuring and privatisation of former private enterprises. The second stage refers to the period between 1991 and 1992, which covers the period from the break-up of the SFRY and the wars in the environment to NATO bombing. It is the period of disintegration of the Yugoslav market, international sanctions, severe political and economic abuses, and one of the largest hyperinflations in world history. For this stage is characterized by a dramatic deterioration in economic efficiency, especially the efficiency of the use of natural resources. The third stage has been since 1999, a change in Serbia in 2000, as the period of NATO aggression has made a complete turn when it comes to the environment in Serbia. So radiological, chemical and physical contamination has also had consequences, and will have them, to the state of the environment. There are different opinions about the dimensions of economic damage to the environment, but there are no precise quantifications and this is a really sad fact. It is certain that the damages were also caused and that the period of facts was relatively short-lived, and that climate and other natural conditions after the end of NATO aggression were extremely favourable for the regeneration of damaged nature, but this did not happen, given the amount of destroying weapons used. The current state of the environment in Serbia has been the subject of several studies made since 2000, and certainly the most extensive display contains a report on the state of the environment and natural resources for 2002 and a demonstration of the state of the environment in Serbia in 2002. The minister, unfortunately, has come out, but the Ministry's representatives are here, so they'll be able to pass it on to Mr. Secretary. That's exactly what we expected with this package of environmental laws to get from you. It would be much easier to make amendments to the proposed legislative proposal. It would be much easier to participate in the discussion, so I agree with my opposition colleagues who say that we have an opportunity to talk very briefly about such an important set of environmental laws. You will admit, it is and it is about system laws, which should have a long-term impact on the life and health of all of us and our descendants. So, based on all these studies, a comprehensive picture of the very heterogeneous state of the environment is being obtained in Serbia. In short, Serbia consists of a number of extremely green and even more pronounced black spots. On Friday, I showed a map that should have been symbolized, according to the advisers of the Chamber of Commerce, an attempt to store waste – means, what Serbia might look like, with the intention that the Serbian public should be informed about it and with the intention of all of us speaking publicly about it and finding the best possible solution. I didn't go very well. You remember Mr. Secretary's reaction. So what you should say is, are black dots, which are really many and pronounced, whether it's air pollution (primarily, I mean Bor and Panchevo), land (Kragujevac, Obrenovac and Panchevo), which is related to the consequences of economic activity in industry, energy and mining. The state of air in Serbia since 2003, emissions of about 525 thousand tonnes of sulfur dioxide, 161,000 tons of azoic oxides, 90 thousand tons of ammonia or about 60 tonnes of powdered matter, you will allow, creating significant health problems in endangered zones. About 15% of fatal outcomes of malignant and respiratory diseases are thought to be associated with environmental pollution. This should also be added to about 350 tonnes of lead produced annually as a result of the use of lead gasoline in traffic, which, due to physical character, remains at high concentrations and close to the broadcasting site. They are particularly concerned with the emissions of micro and nanoparticles from traffic, energy, inadequate management of solid waste. These particles are today considered extremely health-threatening. You see, we expected, firstly, me, as a representative of 78 mandates won in the May 2008 elections by the SRS, to have you come before us with concrete parameters and concrete data, so that we could make a truly adequate picture of what kind of environment we live in. What does the Ministry do, what does it intend to do, and how do you think you can implement a set of environmental laws, which I'm sure will be adopted by the end of this session? The state of surface water is also delicate. Heavy metal pollution from industry, mining, as well as organic pollution from the municipal sector and agriculture, poses serious environmental pressure on water in Serbia. It should be said that only 18 settlements have a system for purification of municipal waste water, while large cities such as Belgrade or Novi Sad, without any treatment, release wastewater into the Danube. Of the installed wastewater treatment facilities, only 13% works with as many satisfactory effects as possible. The dam on the Gerdap hydropower plants leads to the slowdown of the Danube flow and the accelerated formation of sediments with a very unfavourable composition. Treatment with solid waste is particularly problematic. Serbia today does not have any facilities to neutralize hazardous waste. Industrial waste is most often deposited within a circle of the factory, and is a serious difficulty in restructuring and privatisation. One of those photos, unfortunately, the minister left, so I'm going to leave it to you, and I'm going to show it to you a little while ago, and it's the village of Belo Polje, the municipality of Surdulica. The municipal waste is deposited at around 170, less or less, unconditional dumps. Only one municipal waste dump in Vranj can be considered a sanitary dump according to European standards. In particular, it concerns the catastrophic treatment of medical waste, which in most cases ends up in municipal dumps, mixed with other kinds of garbage. However, the farthest problem creates an illegal disposal of waste, outside for that intended space. The surrounding parts of all major towns of Serbia are covered with kabaste waste, and rivers covered with tons of floating, and very dangerous and permanent, PET packaging, which neither collects nor recycles to a sufficient extent. That is why it was necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to know, or we have a presentation of the material and technical assumptions and economic structure, even if in the projection for the next five to ten years, stage and phase, according to the plans of the activity – how do you think you are relieving the existing very serious situation and how do you think to create an umbrella, conditionally said, a decent environment for citizens of the Serbian state. Why am I talking about this? Because it seems to me that this debate would be much better, and then you would understand how you thought when you made legal proposals – are they feasible in the state of Serbia. Which of the partners from abroad did you have in mind when it comes to the enforceability of this set of environmental laws? I suggest we go back to the methodological side of getting to this data that I'm now presenting, thanks to the study that's only been made available to me. I hope you have more up-to-date data, or better studies; then we'll deal with concrete data together. It's not a grudge, it's a finding. It is that the executive power is somewhere away from the legislative authority and there is a problem in surveillance, as you have the opportunity to see. To communicate with each other as often and as high-quality as possible, without political prejudice, I think we'd have a better picture, at least when the environmental theme is on the agenda. For example, from February to September 2004, in preparation for the development of the National Environmental Action Plan, the European Agency for Reconstruction initiated, as part of a programme for capacity building, study, under the heading – establishing economic values in terms of economic degradation, i.e. environmental degradation in Serbia. The study was the first attempt to quantify, therefore, only in 2004, the amount of economic damage per environment in Serbia. Given the time and limited resources, the authors of this study have been defined for the application of the benefit transfer method, fully aware of all its limitations. So, this benefit transfer method is seen in that results, this is very important when it comes to all sets of laws and legal proposals that should bring Serbia closer to Europe, earlier environmental evaluation studies, most often carried out in other countries and regions, are passed on, but with the necessary corrections to the country's conditions in which research is carried out. As correction factors, the most frequently taken – average income is calculated according to the parity of purchasing power, size and characteristics of the population, geographical circumstances, environmental impact levels, urbanisation levels, earlier environmental conditions, relying on the results of previous studies conducted in different geophysical, social and economic conditions. It's not always right, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we, most often, as the SRS Parliamentary Group, are trying to draw attention to this, and all in the interest of improving the lives of Serbian citizens. It's a tragic fact that if someone gets busy, they just prescribe laws that can't be implemented in a state and society that's so low in economic and social development. So most often, as MPs, in front of the citizens who gave us a mandate for what I am trying to do right now, we are trying to find out if you had it all in mind when you were making drafts of the law, in the sense that these laws are truly enforceable, not because Europe has no alternative, but that Serbia has no alternative and has no parallel state. All of what we see today, i.e. the citizens of Serbia, lives in this country, which is marred by someone's policy, here, firstly, I think of the international community, i.e. the procedures described in terms of benefit transfer method gives better results if local influences are weaker. When it comes to global influences, the results obtained can be considered more valid. The study used the results of similar analyses conducted in Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. So in early 2004, these studies were considered to be the best European expert analysis in this domain. Adapting to the national-specific conditions of Serbia was reflected in the application of foreign exchange rates based on purchasing power parity, according to OECD data, and the correction through the consumer price index, in order to remove the impact of inflation. What is really very important, and in terms of pollution, unfortunately for several types of pollution, the authors of this sustainable development study were not able to determine with certainty neither available technologies nor the border costs of their application. Also, there were no precise data on the social demand for a quality environment, and it was not possible to construct an aggregate wrong demand for it. It was not possible to determine the physical amount of damage, such as damage to crops, forests, mortality, morbidity of humans and animals, and then assess the cost of physical damage in money. As an SRS representative, it would be important for me to hear if you had an estimate of the damage I was talking about. I'd really like you to have, say, updated data, especially for KIM territory. A far larger methodological problem in determining the real picture of the environment is the fact that the study mentioned is mainly covered by pollution and environmental degradation flows, not pollution funds accumulated in water, air and land over time. Also lacking is the estimated environmental damage in Serbia at the time of the third stage. When it comes to assessing the value of the damage from the NATO aggression period, it should be borne in mind that the method described in the study provides a picture of the economic value of the pollution flows, but not of the funds. The fact is that environmental damage caused by the third stage today has, mainly, the character of the funds, and should be further analysed. In the study, environmental damage was done by segments, i.e. in the media where the polluter emissions take place. Chapters dedicated to economic air damage have analysed greenhouse gas emissions caused by global climate change, acidification caused by sulphur dioxide emissions, nitrogen oxides and ammonia, the formation of tropospheric ozone emissions from unstable organic components, dust emissions, lead emissions from gasoline. Indeed, because of the public in Serbia, I try to avoid professional terms, however clearly our environment is and how much it costs to take care of such an environment. So, when carbon dioxide emissions are at an annual level, and this is about 46,000 tonnes, the total damage caused by this study is 456m euros. When it comes to sulphur dioxide emissions at an annual level, it's 525,000 tons. The total damage caused by sulfur dioxide emissions is 703.8m euros per year. Taking into account all the elements involved in direct air pollution, on an annual basis, it is a total damage of a billion and 370.1m euros. As far as water is concerned, the assessment of the damage was limited to the release of waste water from industry and households, the release of nutrients by livestock farms, overexploitation of groundwater. The results range from around 180m euros to 575m euros annually. If heavy metals are included in rivers, primarily in sediments, the amount of damage increases significantly and ranges from 640m euros to 2,800m euros annually. This drastic increase in total damage occurs not only as a result of high unit values for certain heavy metals, such as lead, cadmium, arsenic, zinc, but also as a result of high concentrations of heavy metals in liquid flows, especially in Ibra. However, we believe that water damage analysis should be repeated by some other method, in order to get a more objective picture. As for waste and handling it, in Serbia, the situation is far from satisfactory. The inadequate disposal of municipal and hazardous waste, including medically, creates a great pressure on the environment. This pressure is manifested through the emissions of methane from the manure, the spill of the average water from the unconditional dumps, flying ash, as a result of spontaneous burning of waste, land pollution and possession of wild dumps, etc. All this creates total damages of 100m to 275m euros annually. However, industrial waste was not processed in this analysis because it was not possible to obtain complete data on locations and quantities of industrial waste, as well as accurate data on the categorisation of the content of this waste, so that the injury quantification was not possible. If industrial waste and land pollution data were included, for example, from gas stations, this amount would be far higher. I'd like to know, this is where I speak to the Ministry's experts, were these categories being measured recently, and do you have any concrete data, say, when it comes to pollution from gas stations, has the project ever been done in the state of Serbia lately? In order to analyse the damage caused by economic activity by the environment, and to compare with similar analyses in countries, say, the EU, the authors included noise, above all, in cities, traffic and industrial plants. Ecologically unacceptable is considered noise over 50 decibels. The damages are estimated to range from 57mm to 181m euros annually. We believe that the values obtained should be reconsidered, especially in terms of the corrective factors applied to the benefits of the transfer I've already talked about. For example, a very significant segment is the impact of noise on real estate prices in cities. That's where I'd also like to know, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry will help me, if you have parameters when it comes to the impact of noise on the price of real estate in cities. As a special chapter for analysis, the phenomenon of Eol erosion in Vojvodina was involved, resulting in inadequate farming procedures. The consequences of erosion are that there is loss of the humus layer, which causes reduced fertility of land, and loss of yield and income from agriculture. This segment of damage was estimated at around 80m euros annually. However, in order for the picture to be complete, it is necessary to include damage from other types of erosion in central Serbia and damage to the inadequate use of mineral fertilisers and pesticides in Serbia's agriculture. Unfortunately, no data on the intensity of these damages were available to the authors of this study. It's a special problem, which I would really like to discuss with all of you, if there is time, space and will, that is. how it is possible for the data on this to be inaccessible, or, worse or sadder, if the state has no data. You will see in the end, when, as well as the public of Serbia, I present all these parameters, I would like to hear from you how you all think that Serbia is approaching the European Union with this condition. So how much, to rephrase the question, will it cost us to get closer to the European Union, which is recognizable by extremely high standards? Summing up estimated financial amounts, according to data available, mostly for this year, the authors came up with a total value of damage, ranging from 861m euros to 2 and a half million euros a year and, as my colleagues would say -- where are the money, who will pay for it? It's only about solving the damages caused by all these factors, and they're related to the environment. If heavy metal damages in rivers are included, this range ranges from 1,300m euros to 4,700m euros annually. All of this, I admit, should be accepted with a certain reserve, but there are also you, who will, I presume, present to the Serbian public and fellow MPs the data. I'm sorry that before the debate, it would be a serious way to approach the proposal of a set of environmental laws, we didn't get comprehensive information, so maybe our insight into conductivity in the practice of a set of environmental laws would be different. The damage caused by heavy metals in river sediments has the character of pollution funds, not pollution flows, like the other values obtained in the analysis, and hence that reserve I was just talking about. Also, if industrial waste was included, land pollution was inadequately used by pesticides and mineral fertilisers, it would be worth the damage of pollution funds that would not be adequately compared to GDP levels for a given year. The estimated value of pollution funds should be observed in the context of the estimated national wealth that has the character of the fund. In drawing up this study of sustainable development, the authors were not aware that there were estimates of the value of Serbia's national wealth. I would like to know if the evaluation of the value has been working and how, chronologically, let's say, since 2000, it seems to be an estimate of the value of Serbia's national wealth. The value of environmental damage, which is moving, for that year when this study, ranging from 861m euros to 2 and a halfm euros, should be put in relation to the achieved gross domestic product for that year, which also has a flow character. If it is noted that the estimated gross social product of the Republic of Serbia in that year was almost 17m euros, or 2.235 euros per capita, it can be concluded that the amount of damage varies from 5.11% to 14, almost 15% of gross domestic product. In this study, fewer values of this participation were received – from 3.5% to 10.3%, as a 25 billion-euro gross domestic product was observed, obtained by correcting nominal value through the standard of purchasing power parity. What has also come from this study, a very significant data, is an estimate of future environmental damages in Serbia. I guess here we'll all find out if everything that's been calculated and determined as damage, in economic parameters, has ever been solved, has anything ever worked on all these problems that have seriously derivated the environment in which we all find ourselves and whether these damages are less and what a projection for the future is. That's where I think, first of all, the near future. Evaluating future environmental damage in Serbia, the authors of this sustainable development study have developed nine possible scenarios for a 10-year period. From the point of view of economic growth, three variants were considered: slow growth, with an average annual rate of 1.8%, something above demographic growth, medium growth, with an average annual rate of 4.73%, based on current growth, say, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and rapid growth, with an 8% rate. For example, Russia is here. From the point of view of dynamic damage, three variants were also considered. The first variant implies that the dynamics of damage are followed by growth in the economy, i.e. that there are no technological and structural changes. Another variant, with autonomous technological and structural changes, leads to a reduction in pollution per unit of gross domestic product by 2%. The third variant, by applying environmental protection measures in the context of approaching and joining the EU trend, by reducing the damage per unit of the 5% gross domestic product. Starting from a lower amount of estimated damage for the year when the study, of around 860m euros, was conducted, nine possible environmental policy scenarios were obtained. If the estimated amount of damages of 2.5 million euros were paid, the following damages would be obtained. For example, in 2013: if economic growth, under that first criterion, is low, the damage would be nearly three billion euros. For the medium level of economic growth -- around 4 billion euros, for a high level of economic growth, it is only a projection for 2013, with all those trends and parameters, the damage would be about six billion euros annually. In the case of low growth scenarios, the functioning of autonomous technical progress could result in a slight reduction of damage. Greater reduction could only be expected if the environmental protection policy, in accordance with the principles and standards that the developed world, Europeans, is active. However, low economic growth, in all likelihood, would not allow an active and ambitious environment policy to be conducted, nor would it correspond to the approach, as you defined yourself in May 2008, to the family of the most developed European countries. In order to get a full picture on the variant of the environmental protection scenario, in the context of the course that the ruling majority in Serbia chose, and the people voted in the elections, the authors of the previous study were also tasked with looking at investment needs in the context of the preparation of the national environmental action plan, as well as national environmental strategies. If there have been methodological concerns in the environmental damage assessment process, there have been fewer wanderings in the application of the method of assessing the necessary investments in the environment in Serbia. In view of the content of all the provisions, the Directive, regulations and recommendations applicable, either directly or indirectly, to the environment, and coming from the EU, as well as from various forums, the next review of the financial needs necessary for the application of the national environmental strategy has been made. As regards the methodological approach, the initial basis for assessing investment in the environment was the deviation of the current situation by segments of the environment, water, air and land, from the situation acceptable to the provisions already mentioned. Certain derogations require investment investments, which are determined according to the costs of introducing and applying currently most economically available technologies. When you say currently available technologies, you think of today's existing methods and procedures, and the most economical ones. If in the future, for example, some new methods of elimination, for example, were to appear, for example, only sulfur dioxide from the air, which would be more efficient or cheaper than the existing ones, the cost picture would certainly change. So what we're talking about here is a certain level of investment towards species and needs, as well as towards today's most economical, i.e. The cheapest technologies. For all of this was used by the famous "mose model", who developed the author for the purposes of the World Bank, for example, for the sake of this study. Almost all types of environmental pressures are determined by the functions of the border control costs, and based on them and the spectrum of available technologies, as well as the standard costs of certain technologies; investment and operational costs for environmental protection in Serbia have been determined. The time horizon of ten years analysed was divided into two periods, the first from 2005 to the end of 2009, and the second from the beginning of 2010 to the end of 2014. Total expenditure, both investment and operational, for environmental protection is moving, ladies and gentlemen, in the range of around four billion euros. So four billion euros for a ten-year period. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that data for the existing infrastructure, for example, in the domain of waste management, wastewater collection, air treatment, as well as existing environmental control and control institutions, administrations at all levels, have not been subject to this analysis. Therefore, it is only about the additional financial resources needed to improve and bring the existing system closer to EU standards. Here I would really like to know, I suppose that is what other colleagues are interested in, and especially the Serbian public, who is concerned about the environment within which they are trying to exist – what are your plans? So where are you going to find the money that's over necessary for all of this that's been said, in the first place, the damage done, to mitigate, or to say, in just one sentence, completely irresponsible behavior by contaminants? I would also like to know how polluters, by directly jeopardizing the health of all of us, caused serious illnesses and damages, have been sanctioned so far? With that in mind, why are we only talking about environmental laws in 2009? According to the projection, total expenditures range from 26m euros annually at the beginning, up to 720m euros annually at the end of the observed period. In addition to the above, expenditure should be taken into account which are not primarily focused on the environment, but which have indirect effects, such as the construction of transport infrastructure, in the first place, I mean road, rail traffic, bypasses, drinking water facilities, improvement of the district heating system, refurbishment of the airline, modernisation of road transport resources. According to a free estimate by the authors of this study of sustainable development, they should be around four billion euros. These expenditures are not considered investment in the environment, but certainly should also have a positive external challenge, according to the authors of this study, effects. As for direct expenditure, they are gradually increasing, as a result of economic development and increasing the ability to invest themselves. At first, these are the modest expenditure of creating adequate institutional infrastructure, creating an adequate legal and regulatory system, improving supervision and administration, which together does not constitute capital intensive activities. When it comes to this, especially the management that should be conducted, I hope, at least that's how your resolution ministry designed it. What interests me is human resources. Has the Ministry thought about the state of affairs when it comes to human resources? In what way do you think to awaken surveillance, what are the material-technical assumptions of monitoring for all mentioned, with the previous finding that I know and that I understand that it is a very serious, complex, phase procedure and that it cannot be done overnight, but it is very important that the public in Serbia knows that there is a strategic guideline of this country, which will not change. Also, it is extremely important for the public in Serbia to know where we will find such money for everything that is beyond what is necessary to meet the standards in terms of ecologicality and the state of the environment in Serbia. So what interests me in this sense is – who should be our partners in this business? What kind of projects do you have in mind to do when it comes to ecology? Then, I'm curious, it's about water management, first of all, and water as a resource, how will you encourage local self-government to deal with this problem? What will it look like, for example, the financial structure of all the cities lying on the rivers and is there concrete co-operation with profiled agencies, for example, for water, which should be carried out, according to the project, knowledge and technology? It's only the beginning of certain concerns that the SRS MP group has in terms of the enforceability of this umbrella, therefore, a set of environmental laws. I would not single out particular areas of vital importance for the state of Serbia, but you will allow, Vojvodina is one of those areas. So, what the SRS Parliamentary Group would really be interested in is the updated data on the degree of environmental pollution in Vojvodina territory, the financial structure needed to resuscitate all of this and the financial structure needed to make sustainable development, for example, in the territory of the Serbian cereals, such as Vojvodina, but this also applies to all other parts of the Serbian state, given that we all have a categorical imperative to improve Serbia's citizens' standards. So, I have no dilemma that you will face extraordinary problems when it comes to partners and money, but what the public in Serbia should know is that the EU family does not receive in its own embrace of the country that bear such problems, such as problems when it comes to the state of the environment in Serbia, that the EU countries generally expect the country itself to meet the standards, so that it does not meet them on paper alone, but in vivo, on the ground. I expect to hear from you what the plan of action is after a set of environmental laws that are on the agenda. I estimate, Mrs. Comic, in these 68 minutes, I've got about five minutes left, right? (President: 25 minutes. No, 25 minutes. All right, I'll leave those 20 for a little while later, for my colleagues. I suppose I've tired you with a bunch of concrete data, along with one fence, I think the public in Serbia, very respectfully, you won't mind, but for me, the Constitution is a roof and an umbrella of everything, and also a member of 74, should be informed of everything in due time. I hope that the colleagues present, therefore, representatives of the resolution ministry, will provide me with answers to the questions I have asked, with the fence that perhaps some of the methodological principles are different from the methodology that you have conditionally applied, when you were monitoring, or even scanning the environmental situation in Serbia. I am just finding out once again, and perhaps, Mr. Minister, you are currently representing the Serbian government for me, to bear in mind that every next proposal from the resolution ministry should be accompanied by comprehensive, realistic and objective information, which contains a review of the situation that we are talking about, therefore, concrete data and concrete financial structure, because it is very important for us to know, if we are already looking at this path towards the community of the most developed European countries, whether we are talking about objective categories, whether we are just normically trying to get close to them, or whether it is all enforceable. For us Serbia has no alternative, we aim to improve the lives of citizens in Serbia and all of these standards that have been presented before us through bill proposals, cost, ladies and gentlemen. We'd like to make them come true. I hope that you have good management in the vault and that you will be able to convince me that all my doubts are unwarranted and that this money will be needed to resolve the terrible state of the environment, inherited, did not come with you, but, as I said, has its own stages; it is your responsibility to provide us with qualified answers. So, I only have two minutes left in time that is scheduled for my parliamentary group. My colleagues, unfortunately, are not present here, just because someone thought they could break the tradition of the largest opposition group in Parliament, because they expressed the rebellion, which is probably expected, which is not the strongest opposition group sitting as it has always sat. I hope, not by spreading the subject, that the agreement will soon come and that I will be surrounded by my colleagues, not by this lonely, in this wasteland in this order. I think that would be a good sign for the citizens of Serbia, and a good sign for democracy in Serbia, and I hope that there will be common sense and will to come to that political agreement. I apologize in advance if the methodology I tried to present is too ambitious, but you'll allow, ladies and gentlemen, it was the only data available to me. Unfortunately, I didn't get a report from your portfolio with this bill of law that would improve this exposure. Thanks again for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16988	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16989	There's no need to feel alone. It's only those people who don't have any conversation. You have a conversation in us. We wanted to show, first of all, respect for you and your efforts to make this discussion dynamic. I think you've brought out a lot of good dilemmas and I'd like to give you some answers to those questions. Just a few notes. At the moment, he is traveling to the Assembly for a report on the state of the environment in Serbia for 2007, which was presented on the Committee on the Environment several months ago. He was adopted unanimously. I think your party's MPs voted for him, too. He was then presented in one convenient form. It will receive a report from all MPs, which is, above all, a set of quantified parameters on what is at present a state of the environment. By 31 March 2009, we will have received data for 2008. I expect a 2008 report will be presented sometime since May. In addition, all parliamentary groups will receive a report on the work of the Eco-inspection in written form, so that you can have insight and that will be an answer to concrete questions about what the Eco-inspection was doing from municipality to municipality, as far as environmental pressures are concerned. Also, all MPs will receive from this ministry a book written by Al Gore. Do not view him as U.S. Vice President and his political role in various processes in the Balkans. Think of him as the man who won the Nobel Prize for a book he wrote about global warming. So this is all material that can help you, first of all, to raise and awaken your and our common awareness of the problems facing the world today. The methodology for writing a report on the state of the environment is so-called DPS IR methodology, which has been accepted by the EU. According to this methodology, you will see for yourself in the report and you can then compare with the data you have and that you have received from these respected professors whose lab you presented to us, you will be able to compare and see how we treat the environmental issue. Anyway, we agree this isn't great, and we're all aware of it together. You've asked a few questions I'd like to answer. First of all, you asked what happens to responsibility for the fact that local environmental funds have been spent on purpose? So this law proposes that this fund be a budget fund, not to employ additional people. We, thanks to this law, will abolish funds that existed locally, where there were burdens on budgets, people's employment, environmental fund costs for the salaries of these people. These people can work in the community. What is key, each of these local budget funds will have a plan and a work programme, which will be approved by the ministry and send a report to the ministry at the end of the year on how the funds were spent. We hope that the positive effect of this will be that we will synergyally act that the money, which is being collected locally, is being redeployed according to the formula presented to you in this law, which will significantly improve the situation at local level. In addition, the local budget fund will be charged by local environmental taxes, which municipalities will be able to prescribe, and the law has defined under what conditions, with the government of the Republic of Serbia defining the maximum figures to be prescribed, and the revenue from the penalties charged for those polluters who do not respect these laws. In this way, we think we are encouraging and encouraging the work of local inspectors to be much more active on the ground, to introduce more order as far as environmental conditions are concerned. As far as responsibility is concerned, we do not have any municipalities that have not made subsequent decisions and budget rebalances to cover their decisions that the funds that were intended for the environment, which were charged by polluters, spend unintendedly. According to the reports we had, 46% of the funds of these budget funds, i.e. local environmental funds, were spent on municipal activities, which, above all, involve street asphalting, financing of different types of public debates, unfortunately, financing of sports events etc. Once again, it is not our goal to take away local self-government funds and to centralise the decision-making process. Our goal is to unite resources and synergy, to try to protect the environment by regional principles, as is the standard in Europe, because in Europe there is so-called. Environmental regions, as the environmental problem is not only the problem of the municipality; in the case of pollution and environmental impact of pollutants, local administrative borders are not known. Make sure it's something that's absolutely experienced in all countries. Serbia will still be the only country where there is local revenue from polluters, which will be 40% this time, not 60%, because all other countries, as I said earlier, have almost 100% of the Republic's revenues as regards the polluter principle. When you ask the question of who will finance this really great burden that will be a pre-purpose, i.e. modernisation of technology and transition from one technological level to another, which will mean a healthier environment, first of all, will be financed by those who currently have these production processes. It's not just a question of environmental protection. It is certainly the most dominant, but what will await us in the future, it is not only a question of respect for European norms and standards, if we want our economy to survive, if we want our economy, the products we produce as a country, to be competitive on the world market, it is that we have to adhere to standards that are not only prescribed by the EU, but rather prescribed by almost the whole world. At this point, the whole world is in a process of harmonising standards and legislation, not just the EU. You today have standards that are valid, almost identical, in Japan, America, China and in African countries, ultimately, and in the European Union. As a global region, the EU has preceded these standards. These are the standards that today accept all the countries in the world. For this reason, we need to help the economy, that, by moving to more modern technologies and reducing the impact of economic activity on the environment, in some ways, it saves itself and makes its products competitive. Where does that money come from? It comes from the economy, it comes also from the assistance of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or from the Environment Fund. I told you that our intention is to pass the Fund law in the next step, which will allow, for example, a small producer, who burdens the environment, in the sense that it releases certain waste water into the river, where it is standard to install certain filters that cost certain money, address the Environment Fund and help him through various types of projects, to finance interest; to take funds in the bank on market terms, or to co-finance or almost finance a part of it. After all, everyone gets it. It also gets the environment, and it gets, because it has made its product more competitive, and it gets the state, because it has managed to solve one of the many problems it has today, because our technological processes are quite outdated. In all the countries that were in the process of European integration, which is something that, as a state, we have to take advantage of, and that is one of our comparative advantages, there are many countries in the world, a cluster of these couples coming from EU funds. Billions of euros have been invested in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, in order to address waste water problems, in order to address the problems of other environmental infrastructure facilities, in order to ultimately address the problems that represent the re-purpose, that is, the modernisation of industry. It's something we, as a state, should take advantage of. It is clear that IPA funds, in the budget periods ahead of this country, are intended, among other things, for funds and for this. It is only a matter of our administration's ability, certainly, and the speeds of our EU accession, when we too will start using IPA funds, from which we can finance the modernisation of our technologies and repairing the environment. With the hope that you will carefully read the report on the state of the environment for 2007, that you will carefully read all the literature we give you, indeed, with great pleasure, because of the good debate we are in today, I want you to also in the future, and when your fellow Members return to this hall, you are discussing the tone and the way you do it. I am sure this will also contribute to democracy and parliamentaryism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16990	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? (No) The word has a National MP Marina Ragush, the authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16991	I apologize for speaking from the scene, but it's really hard for you to see a radical from that dead corner. Well, let's start from the last one. Thank you for these answers. I think they're important to all citizens. As far as my colleagues are concerned, I have to answer. You see, a T-shirt on me is an expression of protest over everything that's happening to the SRS, but within the framework of an existing institution. So, last in a series of protest expressions, and what the opposition is right to, because it is done, even, that traditional agreement that the strongest opposition party has places that traditionally have in this home. I just expressed my desire that my colleagues would return and that we could all, in the spirit of parliamentary democracy, discuss all points of the agenda. What the public in Serbia needs to know, the last group of 48 radicals has been cast out because it has only voiced protest because one MP's wish has not been heard, and the others have been solidarity with talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. There's been an exaggeration on many sides. I'm just expressing my desire that in some future period, good political will will be found and that we finally begin to build a safe house for all citizens. Of course, we question whether these political arrangements will be respected. We had one attempt at adopting the budget at the end of 2008, and the agreement was not respected. You will allow, in the end, when you were the opposition, you used similar methods, political and legitimate struggles. We're on our way to the team. As the old saying goes, that's enough. Every day for Serbia is a lost day. I hope that somewhere the line will subside and stop with this dirty media campaign, crucifying through a wide variety of media and that finally a normal, constructive life will return to this prestigious home. You were talking about a fund that should be a gas station for all the local units that will be interested in solving the really terrible problems they're facing. I have to give you one not so sacred example. I remember, when Mrs Pop-Lazic took over as mayor of Zemuna, the UNDP project was suspended only because the UNDP manager at the time, and I will release the original letters to your ministry, allowed himself to punish citizens, viewing the retrograde power of the SRS representatives at the head. You will allow, Mr. Minister, as representative of the SRS, I have to ask you - who will have a primate to get money from this fund, by project, and there are no municipalities in the state of Serbia that have really no big problems when it comes to the environment. We come back to the territory of what is discrimination on a political basis. I gave you a plastic example with one project. I personally took part in an attempt to resolve such a thing in favour of the citizens of Zemun, so we talked about it at the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. Mrs Pop-Lazic tried to draw attention to the terrible discrimination committed by those funds and organisations that can help some part of the territory with their resources. Somehow traditionally, the Zemun municipality faces this problem of funding. Is that how the message is transmitted that if the radicals run the Earth, there will be no money, so that citizens will live in a completely different way of life. Only one example of us creates doubt that such a thing can be a practice for the future. What I'd like to ask you, I assume you've thought about all this when you were doing an umbrella on these system laws and when you were thinking about the Development Fund, is – do you have any concrete partners in this business? What I'd like, as a representative of the SRS, to know, what kind of people are these, what kind of financial structure is that? In other words, is there a plan and a program? I hope you don't mind me like Friday. I hope that's the kind of communication we've overcome. It would have been much more constructive if the comprehensive report, which the people of your ministry have worked hard and worked hard, had come much earlier, had we had enough time to prepare ourselves and to figure out how to present to the citizens of Serbia how long this process of meeting the standards required of the EU, in terms of the course defined by the ruling union. What's that gonna look like? Is that going to be a priority at a time when we're facing recession? Of course, just to repeat one more suggestion that for each next time, and we'll see each other again in this prestigious home, it's really necessary that, with the bill of law, we get information that makes it easier for us to have this kind of interactive conversation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16992	I have an exhaustive and concrete response regarding the Fund. It's not true that it's ever happened, I can say that, in the last seven months, and especially since I've been head of this ministry, there's been any kind of selection, as far as financing projects coming from the municipality is concerned, according to political basis. Here and today, you have, for example, representatives of the Vrbas municipality who were MPs of the SRS, and today they may not be. With the municipality of Vrbas, led today by the president of the SRS, who is a very frequent guest of our ministry, we are jointly conducting a project to resuscitate the Great Baška Channel, not asking why he is from one party, and perhaps the people of the ministry, or a minister from another party. This is also the case for funding the development of local self-government planning documents. The ministry allocated 110m dinars last year to co-finance plans for some 48 municipalities in Serbia. I can tell you that in a large number of these municipalities are located in the government of coalitions that may not be politically at the majority level, but we have not tried to make any kind of selection by political membership. The only thing that mattered to us was that these municipalities were really having problems. The environmental fund shares the money according to the projects. These projects are received by a methodology that is known to everyone. Every municipality that has a problem and has a good project gets those funds, as well as other funds. It is not only the Environmental Protection Fund that finances different types of environmental projects, but also the World Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the NIP achieve their environmental projects in a large number of municipalities. If you want, we will prove it by concrete argument, that in municipalities that are both the SRS in power and that there is a realisation of projects concerning environmental protection. So, it would be inhumane, it would be incorrect for anyone, because of the political decision of the local population, to make some kind of selection, which, above all, would be a political selection. That's my answer to you. As for this literature, which you will receive, unfortunately later, there are, for God's sake, six months since we presented the state of the environment for 2007 in the Committee on the Environment. That's where your MPs attended. They got that literature. We were hoping that they would distribute it to all MPs, because we believe it's material that interests all MPs. It's something to read, it's a report that should concern the environmental situation, and that's, among other things, important in your voter base, where your citizens live. If we had known that they hadn't given it to you, we would have delivered it to you anyway. To correct that mistake, we will now bring 250 copies of this report to the Assembly and that will be a practice in the future, that these reports, at least those concerning the environmental situation, will be given to all MPs. I am sure that together in the future we will solve all the problems mentioned in these reports. Thank you very much. It's also on the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16993	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16994	I'm only going to make one clarification for the public, and also for you, Mr. Minister. I didn't talk about your resolution ministry when I set an example for the Zemun municipality. I hope that kind of practice will be in the future, no matter who we're building power in the territory of the Zemun municipality. In what way? What it really is is some tendency, which we are going to insist on in the coming period, is the depoliticalization of all those significant areas, too, and non-discrimination when it comes to these things. I, for example, will send you an example, since you belong to the strongest party participating in the European Serbia coalition, a letter and an explanation. I would like you to direct this, given that we are most often not allowed to do so in the right form, where we should – what political discrimination by the UNDP looks like, for example. The suspension of the project concerned the citizens of the municipality of Zemun, in the first place, not Mrs Pop-Lazic, but the citizens of the Zemun municipality were thus told that if they voted for the SRS, the large Western administration of the various institutions and organisations would not have heard of it. I was actually talking about a very plastic case that was painful for us. We talked about it at a permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, and we also talked about it in the context of international co-operation with certain institutions, such as IKLEI – the Community of Mayors of Cities and Cities of Developed Europe, which expressed astonishment over such attitude. They also found that it happens most often when it comes to certain administrations. Of course, we will continue to strive to talk documentedly and reasonedly about this kind of political exclusion, with the hope that this climate will be improved and that one day we will really experience that you, as a minister coming from that party, will stand up for the inhabitants of Zemun, because they were denied for solid economic assistance, because the mayor was from the SRS. So, again, I didn't talk about your ministry and the projects that went to your ministry, so it doesn't even stand to your conclusion that it's not true. I was talking about the UNDP, which has nothing to do with you or the Ministry, but you'll admit, it's a brutal example of the relationship to the electoral will that's confirmed in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16995	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) If not, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: NS, SPS-JS, LDP, DSS, Forwards, Serbia, G17 plus, SRS and For Europe's Serbia. In the order of the MPs of the people, and according to the application for a word, the first has the word of the MP of the people, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, the MP of the people, Zoran Bortic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16996	First of all, I want to remind you of what day it is. Do you know what day it is? Today is April 6th, the day we first experienced the disciplinary effects of Allied bombing almost 65 years ago, while 55 years later, I guess as Serbs, we do not forget that we are small, powerless and insubordination, again disciplined. That's what those who aren't ours did. Meanwhile, on several occasions, since 1944, until today, we have been further decimated by our own. What the enemy didn't destroy, that's what friends did to destroy both Serbia's spiritual elite and the national consciousness of the people and its future. We are now talking about a set of laws that should shape Serbia's future. The question is, do we have the present, let alone the future, if we are constantly exposed to such spiritual contamination? What would be the state of our environment if the executive government had continued the idea of a Slobodan Jovanovic? Probably significantly different, without much noise, with cleaner water, air and no blackmail for those who are very active in solving the planet's global problems, with occasional local activities in some territories. What excuse would various crisis groups have if, first of all, they didn't make a conflict, which should then be resolved? It bothered me, precisely, because of the reminder of April 6th and, automatically, right after and on March 24th, that we constantly need to justify, shame and feel guilty, even for the evil others have done to us. There, the respected ideologist of DS, Professor Micunovic, spoke of Serbs as a saying people on Friday, "No one died of the smell, but of the draft did." So, Mr. Micunović, the Priory has declared us an anti-ecological nation, which has neither consciousness nor initiative to join a strong ecological movement in the world. Fortunately, the speech of prejudice is not only about the Serbs, but also about the Russians, we heard from the continuation of his exposure, where he has now globally discriminated against the Russian man, saying, "It is hard for a Russian man to abide by the law." On the side of what Mr. Micunovic said, which I am not speaking personally, but as a symbol of an entire "progressive way of thinking", but thus made a logical mistake and pointed us to the conclusion that he is a Russian man, because he does not respect the Law on the prohibition of discrimination that we made a few weeks ago. I wouldn't care if it weren't for this virtual situation in Parliament, where it all works in principle – the village is burning and the grandmother is combing, EU member 100th, visa-free travel, new jobs, 1000-euro free action, Kosovo's preservation in Serbia, anti-payments for Infostan, a 6% solidarity tax, while thousands of people are out of work a week, and almost every business activity in Serbia has stopped. These are all irrelevant topics for discussion, but a very serious framework for the environment and the atmosphere in which citizens live. What's the problem, it's that this set of laws is late. Of course these are laws that are universal, which exceed the frameworks of one party, one state, one nation, concern the entire planet, and our little ones in Serbia. It is also true that these laws could have been passed much earlier and that the password "think globally, act locally" could be used by making one serious state and national strategy, if by no means at least environmental protection. Such a strategy would be necessary. What is also important and what is somehow my answer to what Minister Dulic said on Friday is a warning to Miss Marina Ragush not to disturb the public with any information. However, the UN's Economic Commission for Europe, as part of the environmental review, has indicated the need for adequate information, public participation and education. Mr. Dulic, it won't be enough for you now to share with the MPs a variety of publications. We can inform ourselves, but the awareness of environmental science will not change that way. What is very important is that it is the engagement of all possible public texts and media, which are under your control, not your own personal, but your party's control, that there is indeed a change of attitude towards environmental issues, which are no longer some science fiction, but something that is part of life and daily routine. Like this, most Serbian citizens don't even know what we're discussing here. Furthermore, the information we need to give them cannot be disturbing if there is an adequate national strategy on how to treat this information. First of all, I think that in all these bill proposals, it concerns air protection, water, fish funds, etc., what is very important, it is not taken into account that Serbia has been exposed to the influence of none of the European countries and probably a small number of countries in the world. We still don't have something very important, which is a national programme for the prevention of malignant diseases, which is a public secret, there are research results, and not only our organisations, such as the "Mercy Angel" of Kosovo Mitrovica, which suggest a terrible increase in malignancies, even 200% compared to the pre-NATO bombing period, but also data from Italians, according to which 45 Italian soldiers who were in KIM were killed by the poisoning of poor uranium, and 515 suffered from cancer. This is not information that should upset the public, but should lead to some kind of national programme, a strategy, to see what we're going to do, because the noise of the plane has stopped, the bombing has stopped, but the consequences are present and there will be a long time. Among other things, there is a very interesting report by Dr Kit Baverstok, a British physicist and radiologist, former director of the Radiological Protection Service of the European Office of the World Health Organization, which warned the public that there is a strong indication in professional circles that ammunition with impoverished uranium causes cancer and changes in genetic material. Of course, he gave an interview for the "Politika" list, which was not then managed by Mrs. Sonja Licht, but nevertheless, he gave an interview for "Politicals", which said there are very serious political reasons for concealing the fact that bombings with poor uranium have left incomprehensible consequences. It's about the growth of leukemia, lung cancer, the birth of deformed babies. He also said something that I think should serve you, Mr. Minister, and that is: "If you look at everything from a different perspective, you will say – how dare you pollute the environment with a substance that can affect the health of civilians. Therefore, I think you should expect that the states and armies used by the poor uranium will be defensive and try to deny the evidence, and my call to meet face-to-face and to debate this, no one from an army or the top of a state has ever accepted, even though I have always been open to such encounters. You can figure out why it was like that. ''What is also clear is that not only in media, political, but in principle circles there is something that is described as 'Balkan syndrome'. Despite the local name, the problem is global, as ammunition with poor uranium was used for the first time in the Gulf war in 1991, then in Republika Srpska, 1995, in aggression against our country in 1999, in Afghanistan, in 2001, in Iraq, in 2002, whether or not in Gaza, an investigation will show. By the end of 2000, there were associations of veterans of international forces deployed in KIM in Italy and Spain, as the number of members of these cancer and other serious diseases was largely coming out of the statistical frameworks. What is very important is to ask yourself – why did the public in Serbia not get on their feet? The public in other countries has stood up, and here, a well-known, very active NGO sector, which runs those four famous ladies, has not made an effort to influence the initiation of lawsuits and to introduce these results into some kind of world framework and procedure that shows that Serbia, in some way, has been interrupted, with direct victims of war. We became the delayed victims of the war in 1999. In fact, the public has stood up in other countries, whose citizens, above all, as soldiers, spent some time in both Kosovo and Metohija and BiH. The author of the book that was made for our needs and which was practically interrogating...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16997	People's MPs, time available to your MP's group has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16998	Can I have another sentence? (Yes) Dr Mirjana Angelkovic-Lucic, she is an expert in explosives, published the book "The Gifts of the Merciful Angel". She introduced readers to the dramatic statements of all participants in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, Italian hematologists from the National Cancer Institute in Milan, and I think it would be good, for the sake of informing citizens, to bear in mind what our woman published in that book. Therefore, Minister, I suggest that you, along with this publication that you will share with the MPs, consider the book "The Gifts of the Merciful Angel" by Dr Mirjana Angelkovic-Lucic, also print and distribute to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u16999	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17000	A brief answer, I'll finally answer the other questions, I think this is very important. We're back on the subject we talked about on Thursday and Friday. I would only like to give some answers, since I failed to respond to Professor Poscurica, and the topic was, of course, an impact on the health of the population after the NATO bombing and concrete, or the direct consequences of the ammunition with the impoverished uranium. No one here has the intention, firstly, to ablimate these war facts and consequences, which exist, on the environment and on the health of the population, and secondly, to ever again hide any information that is relevant to the public of Serbia. At this point, we have several applicable laws and conventions that oblige us to meet what is constitutional and legal norm, and to give our citizens accurate information on environmental protection. Today, I hope that the third debate will begin, among other things, on a very important convention, that is the Archusa Convention, which will accurately and accurately define exactly the notification of the public and the way citizens can be involved in the decision-making process when it comes to the environment. For this reason, again, I would like to point out that this session is very important, because we are going to create a larger package that will define the problems that have been. Speaking of impoverished uranium, when it comes to health consequences, I presented the data behind whom I am standing, not because it is the data that we have as a ministry, but because it is the data that both the Serbian Army and all relevant institutions, including the UN institutions, have been doing the analysis. By the way, Serbia is chairing the UN Environment Programme for the next two years. This data suggests that there were only four actual locations in Serbia, I'm talking about Serbia's territory, I'm not talking about AP territory, this ammunition, 84 locations on Kosovo territory and one location on the territory of the then part of SRJ-Montenegro. When we talk about the consequences of the health of the population in Subotica, Novi Sad and Chačka, it just takes one degree of responsibility to say it. There are, of course, health effects from the poored uranium, where the ammunition has been effected, but we must never absorb other causes that have led to the fact that today we have no doubt an increase in the level of malignancies of different diseases in children. These causes are also unhealthy lifestyles, smoking, poor nutrition and the impact of industry on the environment, which existed, as well as many other factors that exist. I would like it not to happen that at this point, for everything that exists as a problem with the health system, the way our citizens live, the way they consume food, alcohol, cigarettes and other things, we accuse the bombing, that we do not charge everything with the poored uranium and that we do not act preventively on those factors that are certainly very powerful factors for many of the consequences and diseases that exist today in our population. You need to objectively talk about these things. You're free to talk about the consequences of this terrible act that happened in this country 10 years ago, and we as the Ministry speak freely. I repeat, on April 29th, at the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, among other things, the project was supported and by this ministry, we will go out with an accurate elaborate on the consequences that, first of all, are an analysis of a professional team, and there is no need for you to open your eyes to us at this point; our eyes are open and we can always talk freely about it. Again, I would not like the debate on health consequences, the debate on everything that has unfortunately happened in this country to turn into a political debate, which should share us with the NATO position or the need for co-operation with the NATO Pact today. Today we speak exclusively from the point of view of environmental protection and the protection of the health of our population. I thank and apologize for calling so often. I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17001	The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17002	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, I would like to refer to the three laws in the set of environmental protection laws, and this is the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Nature and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. The basic reasons for the adoption of air protection laws rest on the regulation of this area in accordance with the principles contained, above all, in the Law on the Protection of the Environment, and to its adoption we are bound by the regulation of this area in accordance with international regulations whose country is a signator. In addition to a series of international regulations governing air protection, which our country has ratified and is relying on, there are over 30 EU regulations, which, above all, are directives and which are regulated by the EU to protect air from pollutants. When drawing up the Bills, everyone mentioned rules have been taken into account, especially the practice of EU countries, Hungary, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and others, which is why it can be said that this is another law prepared in the process of harmonising the domestic legal order with EU rules. This law aims to improve the uniform air quality management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, identify and achieve measures in the field of protecting and improving air quality, to avoid, prevent or reduce harmful effects on human health and the environment. The law aims to preserve air quality, if air is clean, and its improvement, if air is polluted, i.e. preventing and reducing pollution affecting the damage to the ozone envelope and climate change. The application of this law will ensure the enforcement of obligations undertaken by international contracts and agreements and the rights and obligations of all entities, from the Republic, the unit of local self-government, legal persons and entrepreneurs, to citizens and their rights and obligations in the field of air protection. In view of the fact that the air protection law is of general public interest, that is, in the interest of preserving human health and the environment in general, it fully justifies its adoption. Dear fellow MPs, the protection of nature is one of the basic areas in the protection of the environment. As serious as this issue is, the best testimony is that some 1,000 species of plants and more than 150 different species of birds are extinct in Europe today. High standards for sustainable and rational management of natural values have been established in EU countries. All this imposes the need to regulate issues of nature protection in the Republic of Serbia. As a result, the process of preparing this law also took into account the provisions of different conventions which our country has joined, so the proposed solutions are the expression of compliance with EU directives and with the international obligations arising from other international associations and contracts. The bill comes from the degree of democratic and technological technological development, diversity and specificity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in a comprehensive manner regulates the relationship towards the preservation of habitats, landscapes and biodiversity. This law regulates the protection and preservation of nature and natural values, the geological landscape of diversity, as part of the environment. The law provides principles on the protection and promotion of nature, and this – the principle of high degree of protection of nature and natural values, the principle of sustainability, the principle of measure and conditions, the principle of integration of protection, the principle – the user pays, and the principle of co-operation. Subjects of nature protection – Republic, Autonomous province, unit of local self-government, as well as legal and natural persons who use natural resources to carry out their business activities have also been identified. In particular, it should be stressed that this law will have a positive impact on users and on the managers of protected areas, as well as on the competent authorities and organisations and services, since it clearly determines the conditions and safeguard measures in the planning and use of natural resources. Positive solutions proposed in this law will contribute to faster economic development, as they create conditions for citizens and businesses in protected areas to carry out actions that are not contrary to measures and conditions of protection, such as tourism, hospitality, old crafts, trade and the like. Dear People's MPs, the current economic and non-economic interests and reasons dictated conditions and ways of protecting the environment, with or without including direct or indirect influences on them. Further use of natural resources and goods and changes in the spatial framework, regulation of measures and regulations of environmental protection, are only possible under permanent ecological and scientific control. It's one of the basic tasks of environmental protection. Management of natural resources and good and environmental protection is a constant need for man and his relationship to nature. Such a relationship requires the necessary harmony between man and his activities, on the one hand, and the preservation of nature and its values, on the other hand. That is why the need to amend and supplement the existing environmental law has been imposed. The concept of the Law does not change, but improves the system of governance and protection of environmental factors. In this way, free interpretation of the law and its abuse, i.e. illegal application, will be avoided in practice. The proposed solutions will affect the economy, i.e. natural resource users and contaminants. The status of the Environmental Protection Fund will also be specified and the competences of the authorities of the Republic, the autonomous province and the units of local self-government relating to the creation of strategic and planning documents, the establishment and management of the information system, but most importantly, these legal solutions will give citizens of our country the right to a healthy environment. We all know that over the past decades, especially during NATO's aggression on our country, the resources of the environment in Serbia, water, earth and air have been largely polluted. All this is due to the growing number of malignant and other deadly diseases and the deterioration of the health of the nation in general. For this reason, Serbian citizens are interested in keeping our environment safe from all kinds of pollution and making all polluters pay adequate compensation for the damage they have caused to the natural environment, in principle – the polluter pays, and the pay user. As is known, these principles are the foundations of contemporary European legislation in this area. At the very end, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS Group will support a set of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17003	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17004	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP will support this set of European laws, environmental laws. We feel that it is really necessary for our domestic regulations, domestic legislation, to be harmonised with EU rules. If we start from that basic goal to adopt these laws that are on the agenda today, I would point out a few more objectives that are set out in these laws, which are, above all, harmonising with international obligations, therefore, with ratified international agreements and conventions, in addition to harmonising regulations with EU rules, then sustainable use of natural resources, improving the system of management of nature and establishing the basis for nature conservation, and not least, protection against environmental pollution. If we start from the fact that this is a serious law, it's a law on environmental protection, which comes from all these other laws that we're discussing, then we could say that these laws, by chance, have arrived on the agenda two or three weeks after we adopted one very important, in my opinion, cruel law, and that's the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. While the law, in fact, covered a segment of human relations, so far this law focused on man's relationship to his environment, so, according to nature, water, air, etc. As the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination provides for tolerance in human relations, these laws foresee tolerance in relation to man to his environment, because without this tolerance there is no normal life, no protection of nature, no protection of water, no air, so there is no life. Unfortunately, we are aware that many of the good regulations that already exist in our country are not applied as they should, that many of these regulations, although they exist, are misread or simply not applied. I note this because, although very good solutions are provided for in these environmental laws, this does not mean that we will automatically implement these solutions and that by adopting these laws, we are doing our job, so we can expect only some improvement in relation to nature and the environment. Because in 2004, we also passed the Law on the Environment, and we passed the Law on impact assessment on the environment. So we had two important laws dealing with nature, which deal with the protection of that nature. So how could it have happened, say, that only 100 meters from one protected stock, one natural reserve, was built a shipyard? I'll tell you today about the Imperial Bar. The Imperial Bar, by the way, is a brand of Serbia, among other things. It is registered on UNESCO's list of wetlands. So it's a Ramsar area. In this area, for example, there are 240 bird species, that we're not talking about flora, fauna and everything else, it's only important that this country is committed to, by signing the Ramsar Convention, to protect it. This Tsarska Bar is located approximately 17 km from Zrenjanin and the construction of the shipyard was justified by the fact that it is necessary for the economy to improve, to employ people, that it is very rational, that it is not environmentally dangerous, etc. But what about a shipyard that, for example, has the capacity to process steel, about 8 to 10 thousand tons a year? What about the huge amount of waste water, the emissions of smoke gases, waste, sand, as well as waste from metal processing, which leads to water pollution, air and land pollution on that Imperial Bar? What about the fact and how this could have happened, that despite the existence of these two essential environmental laws, 2004, or in 2005, the management of the Imperial Bar was taken from the local self-government and given to one fishing land, which was privatised in the meantime? What about the solution of the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia which, among other things, allowed the construction of that shipyard, I repeat, 100 meters from the border of that natural habitat of rare species of birds and Ramsar areas, because, as far as I know, birds do not care about these borders and do not understand what the limits between their natural reserve and shipyard areas are? So how is it possible to obtain a positive environmental study and then, 2008, in particular, March 21, to reach a solution on the previous protection of the areas envisaged for the extension of the borders of the Special Reserve of Nature "Old Begey – Carna Bar", and to determine in Article 4 of that solution for the ageer of the area under the previous protection of the Fishery of Eck from Luka's Sela? It is a fishing land which, since 2004, has been the guardian of this Tsar Bar. So, if all of this is taken into account, the question is, do we need new laws, do we need some legislation that, perhaps, as far as the law is concerned, is reaching the standards of EU law, or do we, above all, need to raise awareness of people and that already existing laws are applied as they are foreseen when they are passed? In any case, we support the adoption of all European laws and this set of environmental laws and expect these laws to be respected until the end. We expect the people in charge of them to apply them. We expect members of 67 and 68. The Nature Protection Act, since we predict that all these laws will be passed, because we have heard from all MP clubs that they are ready to support them as very useful for Serbia, literally apply to the Tsar Bar, to literally check that the protected area is managed as provided for by law, whether the controller meets all conditions regarding professional, staff and organisational training to carry out protection, promotion, promotion and sustainable development of protected natural goods. Unless article 68 is adhered to, simply, to deny the management of the good to whom it is entrusted. If these provisions of the law in question are applied literally, then I think there will be no dispute over how the management of the law must be taken away from the current controller. Unfortunately, there is obviously no effective control of how to operate, because the ship that sailed that Imperial Bar, which advertises in all ways, can no longer move from place today, because it has nowhere to sail. The Tsar Bar is slowly disappearing, drying out, a forest that is a brand of Serbia is disappearing, which means it is expected to disappear and a flora that makes up a part of the area. I expect the competent ministry to apply to the job and do everything that, by law, is binding, above all, to respect existing laws and future laws that this assembly will vote on. Therefore, once again, the LDP supports these environmental laws and will vote in favour of their adoption in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a word would be made by MP Zoran Shami, but since there are only eight minutes left, and time is available to the MP's group longer than that, between working after 14 hours, or now to set a break, the choice has fallen to this sub b. So I'm setting a break to 15 hours. The first in a row to be reported is MP Zoran Shami. [[After break – at 3 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please take your seats. The day-to-day section ended with the principle debate on points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 14 of the agenda. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has the word. After him is the Messenger of the people, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17007	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there's a set on the agenda, according to my very objective court, of very important environmental laws. I point out this because it is a general place for everyone to say that these are important laws, although this in the way the debate is organised could not be concluded. In fact, the ruling majority united the debate on 13 environmental laws, so only two discussions are actually being held. It is clear that it is the ruling majority's attitude to these laws. I'm surprised to see Mr. Dulic, in general, and the Ministry of Ecology, agreeing to that. In fact, the greater the number of points that are united in the debate, as a rule, these are less important laws. It is not disputed for the DSS that these laws are important and it is truly a great pity that no larger space has been given to discuss them. Besides, to speak of one law in quality, it takes at least five minutes. No wonder the authorised DSS representative, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, spoke for half an hour, approximately, and it seems to me that Mr. Masic also spoke half an hour, six laws per five minutes. There's another problem that's connected to the dots. Namely, the previous debate brought together various points, including the point of radioactive radiation. This could, perhaps, be connected in a country called Switzerland, because there is no reason to particularly highlight radioactive radiation. However, in a country called Serbia, it is not smart to connect it. We've been exposed to bombings, to ease up, to say, cobajagi with poor uranium, although I believe it was something much more serious, because it wouldn't be free B92 flying from the U.S. to deliver that burden that it was just an impoverished uranium. Whatever it is, it's not good. The debate on the point had to be a special debate in this House. I had, to say, a sad and ugly privilege of seeing an authentic report in 2001 about where all the bombing points were radioactive uranium. There are individual points outside Kosovo and Metohija, I think there are four or five. Unfortunately, points in the territory of our AP Kosovo and Metohija are no longer a point, it is a straight line on the border towards Albania and Metohija, especially hundreds of kilometers long. Convince us that, my God, it's naive and not something to worry about, it's not particularly advisable. However, I know that there are some in Serbia who, in the name of NGOs, at least call them that, just means that they are not funded by our government, but by some other governments, still keep repeating what Jamie Shay, a NATO spokesman, said in time of aggression on our homeland, which is that it was one thing, my God, humanitarian bombing. I think it made Mr. Shay a serious competition for Goebbels' famous explanation from 1939 in the Vermacht attack on Poland. This debate has another feature. I'm sorry he's not here, Mr. Micunovic. On Friday afternoon, speaking of these laws, he said one sentence. He said, I will paraphrasise, of course, how the debate on these laws is going smoothly in this House and that there are several reasons. He listed the one, which is that, my God, there are important laws, but what he did not mention, and what he had in mind, it is the fact that at present in Parliament, of 250 MPs, there are only 197 active ones. I am afraid that in some next step, too, it might come to mind that we could have even less active MPs, so that some other parliamentary groups can be found outside Parliament. Imagine that idyllic scene when you start a session with 49 points of the agenda and finish it by lunch and then go to lunch and it's all in the best order, like in the old days. However, Mr. Micunovic repeatedly quoted one famous political saying in this room as saying, among other things. You know, swords can be conquered by power, swords can be held in power, but, ladies and gentlemen, swords can't sit. The fact that you and not far from here, in the government, that you haven't noticed that something bothers you when you're sitting, it's still an interesting fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17008	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Đuro Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17009	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, respected citizens, my presentation of this set of laws is about two problems from my community, which are a plastic picture of the complexity of this situation. It's about two channels, two problems, the Little Back Channel and the Big Buck Channel. A small grandmother's channel is a little bit of a problem, and the big old man's channel is a big problem. Short information, I think it's good to know, about the very history of the Little Baba Canal, whose dig ended in 1875. It separates from the town of Sivac, Mali Stapar, and flows into the Channel Danube-Tisa-Dunav, a few kilometers below the Russian Cross. There he was in 1875, when he was finished, and a monument to the goddess Pannonia, though they connected him as a monument to Empress Maria Teresa. The canal itself is about 20 kilometers long, it's been floated before, there's no contaminants in this area until the Russian Cross itself. Otherwise, it provides good opportunities for fishing, as well as for the development of rural tourism. Unfortunately, economic incidents occasionally occur. One of the last happened on September 4, 2008, when Beta Agency passed the news - the fish's death in Russia's Christur, due to wastewater from the Refrigerator. At the request of the local community "Ecological Ring" and the association of fishermen, the water inspector for the protection of water came out on the spot and held a conversation with responsible persons in the Refrigerator. His statement came after the talks that there was an incident with the fish's death due to an accidental error by the people in the Refrigerator. It did not specify whether a procedure would be initiated against the company, because, as he said, it was an unintended failure of its employees in the Refrigerator. We have two problems here. The first problem is the softest, to use the gentlest word, the reaction of the inspector who is the image of the state and whose duty is to protect the interests of the state and society. Secondly, he did not react properly, and if he did, the punishment was inadequate, too small and too mild. The other problem that arises is the reaction of businesses themselves that are creating pollution. Knowing that the punishment is small, they don't react and they're pretty unscheduled about this problem. As a consequence, we have transient damage – one transient environmental incident, because it is small and not that large, and we have a renewable fish fund. Every year, since the fish fund is repeated regularly every year, it is able to recover and we do not have such a big problem. However, if we leave such a reaction to the state as well as to the economy, then we'll get to another major problem, which is more difficult and complex, and that's the Great Buck Channel. As far as the Great Baba Canal is concerned, it is also called a "smelling channel", because the concentration of pollution is such a degree that this name is much more adequate than this natural, historical name. Facts related to the history of the Great Babacanal. He began to dig in 1793 at the Back Monostor. Reason – connecting Danube and Tise. About 3,000 people participated in the construction of the canal itself, which was manually unearthed. Its value at the time was three million forints and ended in 1802. At the time, it was the largest construction venture in Europe. The canal is built on a concession system. The reason was the transport of salt, as strategic raw materials, from Romania, Tis, the Great Baška Channel and the Danube, to Vienna. The concessionaries themselves, by exploiting it, paid off the amount they invested in 25 years ago. Today, the depth of the canal is in certain places, on that critical part, from Red to Vrbasa, only 30 centimeters deep. The canal is now absolutely unmanned and the water has an extremely unpleasant smell. The Kish brothers' visionary project, which has turned the Bachk swamp, this project, into the most fertile soil of Europe, two centuries after digging, looks like a sewer, so polluted that on these most critical six kilometers from Crvenka to Vrbasa it is classified in a class outside of all categories, and in Europe it has the name 'black hole', the ecological black hole of Europe. We have the first written trail of pollution registered in the Serb dam in 1936, when citizens filled in against pollution, when they started working on sugarcanes. Last year, citizens, if you remember well from the media, threatened to protest and sought to bury the Great Baba Canal. Since I come from the middle, from the Tower, who understands the problem well, I can understand their anger. Burying the Channel is not a solution, because the flood of houses next to the Channel and that is what is an inadequate reaction, but that is why the message of citizens, which we must respect, is symbolic – the pollution of the Channel is so drastic that the flood is less evil. How do you solve that problem? There have been earlier attempts to solve problems, back 20-30 years, the point at which it stopped was – an extremely strong industrial lobby that pressured not to do what had to be done, because in the municipalities of Kula, Vrbas and Srbobran there are about 130,000 people living and about 80% were related to work and their salaries were received in industrial facilities along the Channel. At this moment, the interests of the municipalities that are leaning on that channel, the provinces, the Republic, the citizens, and even the industry, which is largely privatised. Namely, there are interested donors, creditors, who would help solve this problem, but they all demand that this problem be resolved in a comprehensive manner. It is not enough to do nothing but muddle the Channel, but to solve its pollution permanently. The rural administration, the ministry, was in a way all co-ordinators of one action plan for the revitalisation of key six kilometers, and then the entire Great Baška Channel. The basic instrument, according to the directives, is the monetary motivation of the company to clean up waste water, as the treatment of purified water will gradually increase, so at some point it will amount to much more than it needs to be invested in water treatment and processing. The privatisation of many factories and businesses has led to a change in environmental policy, I would say, both environmental awareness and culture. New owners who are interested in exporting their products to the EU are aware that they cannot obtain a certificate unless they have solved the problem of waste water in their factory. This set of laws that we are discussing today, in some ways, solves a number of problems in general and regulates matter regarding the issue of the preservation of a healthy environment. We must not allow profit to be the only leader of the economy. Also, if we know that economic development is important, because of citizens' standards, we must also take care of the environment. In my view, it is a historic task – the adoption of these laws and more of the laws that are missing at this moment, to correct the mistakes of the past, to cure the nature that we have nearly destroyed, such as the nature of the Great Baška Canal, the Tower and the Vrbasa, to set firm ecological rules, to cure it, as it is, to preserve it for our children, and not to allow it to be destroyed, as in the case of the Little Bac Channel in the Russian Cross. That's why I will be very pleased to support these laws. I believe that each of you in your midst has similar problems. It is a motive for you, the other MPs, regardless of which political group you belong, to support these laws, because it is our responsibility to create a new ecological consciousness – to preserve the environment in which we all live together, regardless of political membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17010	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17011	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, may I not stand, and since these are the conditions that require physical effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17012	You don't have to bend. If you're more handsome, you can sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Except for the principled objection I made the other day, Thursday and Friday, over this set of laws, I will potentiate the way this agenda is formed. When these laws were seriously discussed on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and when this agenda was established in December 2008, there was, in a strange way, a postponement of that agenda, or the removal of those points from the agenda of the assembly session. It is interesting that certain laws are already a longer period, for years now, removed from the agenda, and we all agreed that these are very important laws for this country. The new Rules of Procedure restricts the time for discussion and I will refer to points 14, 11, and 10 of this united debate. So when I talk about point 14, there is certainly a key moment, which is being led by public controversy, Article 85, the relationship between local self-government and the state, or the competent ministry. We support Mr. Minister's remarks that certain resources from environmental taxes at the level of local self-government have been spent unintentionally, or beyond the budget, but there is one very unusual thing. What resents local self-government is happening in the ministry in the past term. I told that story in public the other day about the pay phone. So, you have one story that cost this country 11m euros, and that about the fate of these jobs, the way of doing and doing these jobs, about this whole story very little knows that they are getting smuts, unsuspecting answers, even, answers that in a certain way humiliate the MPs and the Republic Assembly. If we start with the fact that laws are passed to regulate one area of life, of course, and to regulate and prevent the self-will of individuals, in which case, the Ministry's behaviour, or the Minister for Environmental Protection in the last term, throws one other picture. That's when the individual's will surpassed the power of the law. Then things were done that were not in the ministry's jurisdiction and then the budget was spent which we do not know in what way and in what extent. It is well known to all that, some time ago, the President of the Republic announced the evaluation of individual ministries and individual ministers, and this is an opportunity to call the President of the Republic on this issue. It's just, when the press is buzzing and you don't have a clear answer to that story, someone who gives himself that kind of jurisdiction, and by the Constitution, he doesn't have it, but grabs it, he's got to come forward in this case, and he has to make his point clearly on the issue. I'm going to point 11, that is, the proposal for a law on noise protection. We have several fundamental remarks, and I'm going to take them out on this occasion. I don't think the text of the law pays enough attention to endangering and protecting citizens' health, especially as noise seems synergetic with some dangerous materials present in the environment. The second is that it is necessary to provide for the obligation to protect from noise along the highways, city traffic, railways, on the passage through settlements or a group of residential buildings. Thirdly, I don't think there are any solutions to the noise problem that arises in discotheques, living music cafes, cafes, halls that are issued for various celebrations, etc. So, everyone in Belgrade is famous, at least in those parts of Belgrade's municipalities such as Chukarica and Novi Belgrade, that during the summer, with Belgrade rafts, there is an unbearable noise that lasts until the morning hours. No one's doing anything about it. So the problem must be taken into account, that noise must be limited to these objects. Simply to allow people to live normally in their apartments. The fourth observation refers to the fact that there is no way to see protection from the noise of elevators, central heating, hydrophores, etc. in residential buildings. So these are some things that need to be taken care of. Besides, some members of the noise protection law have written something that borders on sound logic. I think we should pay attention to Article 18, where it is said that the organisers of public gatherings, entertainment and sports events and other activities are obliged to submit information on noise protection measures in the application for public gatherings and activities, if the use of sound and other devices can exceed the prescribed limit values. How are you going to regulate that? Take an example of a football game. How are you going to regulate that someone doesn't blow in the trumpet and that they don't cross the prescribed value limits? It's just impossible. I think this member should work it out and explain it more precisely. It is also said in this noise protection law that certain competences, in terms of noise protection monitoring, are transferred to local self-government and that local self-government is required to finance that part. There's one thing I was talking about the other day, and it's a budget transfer to local self-government. It is generally known that this transfer will be much smaller this year. Is it wise that more of this kind of imposition is passed on to local self-government? I don't think local self-government can respond to this kind of imposition. The third law I'm going to say a few words about is, of course, the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. This applies to the granting of licences and the submission of a fishing examination. Under the circumstances, these days I have been staying with various associations of sports fishermen and this provision of the law causes general laughter. How are you gonna get someone to lay down the law on fishing? In what way? Who's gonna be the interrogator? A fisherman, who has, say, three years of fishing training, to question a fisherman who has 40 or 50 years of fishing training? So, a completely pointless decision and I think we should take off this member, or delete it, that it doesn't exist in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17014	Thank you. The word has an MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's been a while since we've seen these laws, this set of laws, in a different way, perhaps, as trivial, insignificant laws. Everyday, everyday events, even human sacrifices, show that we must approach these laws, all around the world, as well as in our country, much more seriously, and especially as a representative of the government, Mr Dulic. We almost spoke and signed Kyoto protocol. We talked at these sessions about the development of Karpat, while the Stara Planina burned, helped neighbouring Greece, raised planes, while the Stara Planina burned, and the Old Mountain had no one to help. The old mountain, one of the most beautiful Serbian mountains, had no one to shut down, or shut down a small number of ill-organized people. What's indicative of the world now? Global warming, temperature change and changes caused by the environmental sphere. The 2007 report by the government of the Republic of Serbia indicated that the record temperature measured in Smederjevska Palanca was 44.9 degrees Celsius. I'm inclined to believe that when the temperature exceeds 42 degrees, through its media and service, the government can say that it is 41 degrees and that there is no emergency. More than 15 new alochton species have been registered for the past ten years in ikio fauna of the Republic of Serbia. The last registered case is the presence of a North American type of spatula polyod in Vienna. One species that lives in North America was found in Vienna, and that's not an accident. Now I'm going to be, I don't want to, a little bit of a local patriot, because I come from Smedereva, a town where Ju-Es style has two roles. One is positive, and this is from an economic aspect, as thousands of people depend on the salary they receive in "Ju-Es style". True, it is now on the scene to shut down the second furnace, so that somewhere around 6,000 workers, or 20,000, may be members of their families, in a dilemma of whether or not they will live and in some way care for their existence. The second, negative role, concerns the pollution of the surrounding city, the city itself, and the villages of Radinac, Vranovo and Ralja, the river Ralja, the river Konska, the lake and the good part of Smedereva are particularly endangered. As a contradiction is one report, which I would ask Mr. Dulic for, I know it's hard to maintain concentration, I think he's a correct man, and he'll understand what I'm trying to say. The assessment of the quality of air in the measurement site "Smederevo 3, center", during 2007: "In the centre of Smedereva the air dominated in the class of good or excellent, which means that in most cases the average daily emissions of half-life were less than half the GVI levels. During 2007, there were air pollution periods. The aggregate duration of the air pollution period is 20%. This assessment has contributed to an excess of the levels of nitrogen oxide. '"As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and experts, there is no room for concern. I would read a part of the article "Evening News", published by journalist from Smederev, Jelena Ilic. "The concentration of heavy metals and suspended particles in the air around the "Ju-Es style" has penetrated the red line of limits of permitted values. In the centre of the city, teaj beat all the records, showing the latest pollution measurements made from September to the end of last year. These results were delivered to the Mediterranean a few days ago. When a report last summer on the measurement of aero-pollution at Jelizara arrived, environmentalists were concerned, especially with heavy metal values: arsenic, lead, manganese and chromium. The city government has requested new measurements. The results are not encouraging." When I'm with the city government, she's making a deal with Ju-Es style, not to say who, because I want to be positive at this session, and there's going to be time for everything else. Is that the mayor, who's from DS, from your party, Mr. Dulic, because he has some companies and business with "Ju-Es style"? I see one of you is funny. I don't think it's funny. This doesn't touch me. I'm saying this on behalf of the citizens, whom there are many in Smederev, cadets, you, the gentleman who laughs, in the second year, every other child gets asthma, where people can't open windows, where a woman, when she wipes out the TV, takes off two fingers of red dust. Don't laugh. If that's funny to you, it's a shame. Then there's no point in telling government representatives, because they need to hear it and take certain measures after this speech. Control measurements showed that during September, October and November the concentration of suspended particles was above the limit and that the content of heavy metals in all samples was above maximum. The authorities have checked the suspicions, and the Smedervaces continue to be puzzled by conflicting air pollution data. In fact, measurements from three automated cells say the Smederians are inhaling good air, which these extraordinary measurements have been defunctated. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency, according to measured cell data, gave an estimate that air is in the class of good and excellent. You say the air is great, and children of a year and two suffer from asthma. Don't do this, you better tell the people the truth, and you better tell them what measures you're taking. Time is running out and I have to take care of my colleague. It's in vain, sir, Minister Dulic, about the beauty of a mountain spring to speak to buffalo men who can't drink until the water is clouded. I'd just like to tell you something, the Smederians and all the people who have beautiful Serbian rivers are going fishing to escape the exams and the problems. You're bringing in sports fishermen, recreationals, passing exams at the Ministry. What are you going to ask them? How do you tie the hook? How do you throw the net? Is it a worm or a worm? I think you've gone a little too far, and in a year or two, there's going to be chaos in this sphere, and especially in this last law that I don't have time to talk about, and I'd like to talk about, the sustainable use of the fish fund in Serbia. Thank you for your attention, and I really don't think things are funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17016	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17017	Thank you. I would like to answer to you and the previous Member of Parliament, so that we will no longer return to the subject of fishing exams. I said, I'm not sure if you listened to me very carefully, whether it was Friday, that the ministry would accept the amendment of the New Serbia MPs, or the Advanced, I'm not sure where the training of fishermen is defined. Education not only for reasons that it would not be allowed for our people to carry home fish that freeze, or fish that fall into protected species, but to maintain something that we can undertake under permanent learning, in the organization of fishing societies whose members they are. So there's not going to be an exam, and that's something we agreed not to talk about anymore, because there's no reason. Secondly, Smederevo was one of the cities that was under special monitoring and attention from this ministry several years ago. "Ju-Es style", you well rated it, on the one hand, represents an institution, or industry that has left positive effects on your city. On the other hand, this type of industrial activity causes certain environmental burdens. "Ju-Es style" signed with this ministry several years ago a protocol, or action plan, that defined the degree of investment in the recovery of the environment. Of course, the manufacturing industrial processes that are in the "Ju-Es style" have been found, which are due to old technologies, have been changed and it takes time, but we can tell you what is the consequence of our measurements. This is not about the "Ju-Es style" measurements, nor do we ever allow industries to inform us about emissions and emission concentrations, about everything we care about and what represents the quantification of pollution parameters. I see you've based your exposure on a newspaper article. Let me tell you right now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, newspaper articles have a wide variety of articles; as there are all of us, so there are different journalists. This is what, unfortunately, is the situation in our country and why, when we talk about raising the awareness of our citizens, we talk about one necessary thing, which is education and journalists, and politicians, and everyone else about the environment. I can resolutely deny that the situation in Smederev is as described in that newspaper article. All data is relevant, and you can check them in real time; in this second you can have a report from the automatic measurement cells that are deployed in Smedereva at three points. Two dots are in the area of the factory, and one point is in the centre of Smedereva, and you can see that the limits of different concentrations of matter in the air do not exceed those allowed; if they cross, we detect it. It's not that we can now conclude that they match this alarming description of the situation as stated in some newspaper article. I invite you, as an MP from Smederev, to first make sure that we show you these data, and then, together, we all show it to our citizens, because it's very important for Smeder to know that there is certainly a certain burden on the environment, as I said, but it's not at that level as it was. On the other hand, all the major industrial complexes with which we have signed memos, or protocols, are under control. Let's admit one more thing, and that's the consequence, among other things, of this ministry's activities. This year, therefore, this winter, we had extremely unfavourable meteorological conditions throughout Serbia, but Panchevo was no longer a problem as it once was. I'm not saying that the situation in Pančev is great, but the concentrations of various dissolved substances in the air, which we've measured so far and which have been very often at alarmingly high levels, have not crossed that line this year. This is the consequence, precisely, of the activities of this ministry, of some other institutions, of course, of the municipalities, of the provinceal authorities and of what is most important, of NIS, which meets very precisely action plans and invests in environmental protection. In a similar way, the "Ju-Es style" will meet its obligations in a similar way, by installing wet filters to reduce the concentration of sulfur dioxide in the air, which, unfortunately, in this year was unacceptablely high. So we constantly monitor and in some ways encourage, you can say, sometimes we force industry to invest in its production capacities, to reduce the burden on the environment, and we'll do it in the future. I repeat, our intention is not to cover anything up. Let's just admit one thing. The truth is, in the last few months, you've almost every day had all the real news when something's wrong and when something's good. The problem is that when something is wrong, it must be published in the media, because it is news news, and when something is good, I guess it means it's good. In any case, you can be sure that the complete air monitoring system, which is integrated, which works in Serbia, which will be completed by the end of this year, will fully cover every corner of our country, so that air quality can be measured and that at any time, in real time, at the Agency for the Protection of the Environment you have all the necessary data. In this way, all the following dilemmas and discussions on the quality of ambient air can also be supported by this. What I'm ending with is, it's important that we just pass this law, so that we finally have a legal basis that all the problems that concern environmental burdens in the future are solved. Anyway, thanks for your debate. Thank you for the opportunity to give you a concrete answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17018	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Mr. Nebojshi Ceran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17019	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the very fact that on the agenda we have a set of environmental laws, some of which have been waiting for adoption for five years, is a significant step in the work of Serbian parliamentaryism. A constructive approach to the problems that has been marked by the Committee on Environmental Protection sessions, and I would say that it dominates this session, be hopeful that, however, we can gather around certain problems, putting aside our diversity. As I come from Obrenovac, a city where every other kilowatt hour of electricity is produced for 40 years from the total Serbian production, in which 20 million tonnes of colubari lignite are burned annually, I will talk about the law that most touches this area, the law on air protection. Of course, I find other laws that regulate the area of nature protection, ionic and non-ionizing radiation, waste management, etc., extremely important, not so much for the EU accession process, but for joining the community of a global movement of nations that have shown responsibility for the future of the planet. The Law on Air Protection regulates the area of air quality management and determines the measures, methods of organisation and control of air quality implementation. The area of air quality monitoring is also regulated through conditions and quality monitoring system. The formation of state and local monitoring networks is foreseen. The area of cross-border transport is also regulated, and it is known that this topic in the past has been able to challenge even interstate disputes. The adoption of a strategy for air protection, air quality plans and deadlines to achieve them, action short-term plans, as well as a national emission reduction programme is foreseen. Emission levels from stationary sources, combustion plants and flammable organic compounds, mobile sources, as well as deadlines for reaching them are defined. I would draw particular attention here to some experience from the EPS, specifically, from the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant, the largest electricity producer on the Balkan Peninsula, and hence the largest emitter of polluting matter. At the time of building blocks, in the 1970s, equipment was installed to reduce emissions that was at the time in line with the requirements in developed countries. During the 1980s, the whole world is beginning to realize that it is not enough to define the efficiency of the plant to reduce emissions, electrofilters, smoke gas suspecting plants and other equipment, but to define the correct emissions of polluting matter. The end of the 20th century, the period in which we have dealt with other topics in Serbia, large electricity systems use to invest billions of euros in new electrofilters, smoke gas suspecting plants, the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions, etc. In Obrenovac and Kostolc, during that period, single amounts of particles are broadcast daily for 24 hours, during the winter period the snow is falling grey and the number of diseases of the respiratory system is growing. Immediately after 2000, the EPS is moving towards integration into a number of international organisations, above all, into the community of the electricity sector of the Southeast European countries and is starting to prepare for the opening of the electricity market. This first establishes the full openness of environmental issues, employs a number of domestic institutions to record the state of the environment and, using the experience of European countries, prepares an ecological modernisation programme, followed by local self-government, at one of its sessions during 2003. So, the activities of implementing this law started in the EPS six years before we bring it here. So, already in 2004, I had the honour of being part of a team that realised the construction of the first electrofilter, in line with the EU's big-pillar directive, an investment worth five million euros, and it was an electrofilter on block A5, a filter that today has 50 milligrams per normal meter of cubic, as it is in accordance with domestic and European legislation. Today, five years later, the fact is that the program was implemented exactly as planned. About 30m euros have been invested in the reconstruction of the electrofilters and so much as a donation from the European Commission for Reconstruction, in a project to solve the thermopower plant "Nikola Tesla B". The emission of particles from the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant has been reduced by over 70% and, with the huge investments of local self-government, with the expansion of the thermal system, about 1000 individual boiler rooms have been shut down, and the city has become once again comfortable with life. This resulted in a population increase of over 10,000 in Obrenovac over the past six years. I would say that this represents exactly one example of sustainable development and certainly be the hope that, even though in Serbia, we can implement some standards and, I would say, if we have some infidels in future developments in this area, maybe this example could offer us some optimism. The adoption of air protection laws coincides with the entry of the EPS into the second, more expensive phase of ecological modernisation. It is therefore essential to set realistic deadlines for the achievement of certain standards, as well as the way of funding. It mentions the second part of the programme, which must be implemented in 2010-2017, includes, among other things, the construction of a smoke gas suspect plant, a plant that requires more than 500m euros in investment. If it is considered that the construction of one smoke gas suspect facility takes four years, and it is necessary to build at least six blocks in Obrenovac and at least two blocks in Kostolec, then it is clear that we have to build some kind of consensus, with full awareness that environmental protection sometimes costs a lot. Therefore, let us support these laws, not only declaratively, but also in the future, when some less popular measures are being taken to implement them. The passing of these laws coincides with the opening of a tender for the selection of a strategic partner to build new blocks at the "Nikola Tesla B3" Termo power plant in Obrenovac and "Collubara B" on Ub. These plants will be the largest investment in the country's new history, and according to technical solutions, it will represent a model that electricity can be produced from coal in the 21st century with a minimal impact on the environment. New coal power plants are being built across Europe today, using sustainable development principles. I appeal to the Ministry's representatives to open up space in further activities using energy from municipal and other types of waste, because I know that in many European capitals there are such facilities, and even such cases can be reduced to a minimum. The law also defines gas emissions with a greenhouse effect, as well as substances that damage the ozone layer. It is of particular importance to arrange in the field of emissions measurement and pollution emissions, as well as to inform and report on this area. I call on the Ministry's representatives to include all relevant institutions in an extremely delicate business of adopting sublegislative acts, in order to achieve a national consensus in the realisation of this law. Bringing Serbia's country into a position in which it will be able to implement all the provisions of this law is a major challenge; it starts at the time of the biggest economic crisis, but environmental protection simply has no alternative. That's why I call on the MPs to support the set of environmental laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17020	Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word. The remaining time of the Prosperity Group, Serbia is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17021	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I would begin with the fact that planet Earth does not belong to us but to those who come after us. That is why we must safeguard and restore it to future generations in the same state as we have found it. The preservation of the environment is particularly important for the individual, both for the country and for our entire planet, because by the development of humanity, by increasing the population of the Planet, the industry has developed, and the industry has led to the greatest pollution of our planet. A man makes his progress in polluting himself, so nature, earth, water, air. A man degrades the country, corrupts the quality of the country, pollutes it, and thus there will be no healthy food. There is also a constant pollution of surface water, and there is a regular incident on the river, lake, or canal. That's what we've heard, so I wouldn't talk much about it, but that leads to bigger deaths and fish and other organisms in the water. The laws on environmental science are important to all of us, not only to regulate the environment in accordance with international regulations, but also to us and nature around us. It is also clear that 30% of our obligations from the accession process are precisely laws and standards for environmental protection. So far, there's been a word about the damage that's been done on the ozone layer. The damage to the ozone layer, which causes harmful gases, leads to climate change, according to some scientists. However, particles are often more dangerous in the air than tiny dust, microscopic size, up to the size visible to the naked eye. These particles are often caused by pulmonary disease, not just pulmonary diseases. These particles produce thermal power plants, foundries, heat plants, cars, construction companies. The Law on Air Protection should protect and improve air quality in order to avoid, prevent or reduce harmful effects on human health and the environment. However, given that we are a small country, with a relatively small industry, which mostly does not work, and that we will, we cannot have much effect on air pollution of wider proportions, pollution of the planet. Those who can influence it pay less attention to the preservation of the environment. Finally, criminal provisions also appear. I think they're still mild to contaminants. It's not enough for the polluter to keep on polluting the air. Each community must have its own ecological plan, which leads to certain measures and investments in the environment. The objectives of environmental protection must be consistent with the economic development of society. We have submitted several amendments to the environmental law, we have submitted amendments to the air protection law. Most amendments concern amending the law in the ministry's work to be transferred to agencies. We believe that today, when budget expenditures have to be cut, agencies whose work coincides with the work of the ministry need to be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17022	Mrs. Donka Banovic wants to use the remaining time - two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17023	The Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Science and Technology worked together on several of these draft laws that we are talking about today. It is a pity that Mr. Djelic is not here today, while the debate is being held in principle, because I think he might be able to answer some questions. What is the fate of these laws, their serious application or the fate of agencies whose formation is foreseen in several laws? Why am I asking this? Because the Ministry of Science and Technology irresponsibly refers to existing scientific institutions and institutes that are of national importance. I'll give you a concrete example. It's the Institute of Physics from Zemun. I'm confidently aware that in the last three months, the Ministry of Science and Technology has not transferred a single dime to the Institute of Physics. So, people didn't get paid for three months, three months didn't get funding for material costs at the Institute, and worst of all, four projects were threatened, which are already at the end, where people from this institute are very serious. So I also have a parliamentary question: when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Science and Technology start funding in 2009 the Institute of Physics from Zemun? Although times are difficult, even though they are an economic crisis, each state must safeguard its resources, and the Institute of Physics and other scientific institutes of national importance are the resources of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17024	Mr. Dejan Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17025	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the Ecological Community, from Sokobanja. My fellow citizens and I welcomed today’s laws with special attention. At the very beginning, I will say something more about the necessity of their adoption, because everything that happens in nature leads us to that it is necessary to observe ourselves, the environment, and this world in a whole new way. This condition of the disturbed ecological balance, which we face and which we meet at every step, has contributed most to it, we cannot ignore it, the man himself. We have brought ourselves into a situation where today we are struggling to protect nature, the environment, so that we can live in it healthier and more comfortablely. However, it is not enough to solve only local and individual problems, but strategic ideas are needed to protect and preserve the planet Earth's ecosystem, to create optimal conditions for the life of all levels of existence, from man, through animals, to plants. To solve a waste dump, one plant, not to change a human factor that, by its behavior and way of thinking, leads to it, is a waste of business. Therefore, if we want to restore the natural harmony and harmony of life’s processes, we need to approach this matter in a deeper ecological way to understand the entire culture of life. We need to know that there's no environmentals of space and environmentals at all without the environmentals of a man's consciousness. Man, as the main contaminant, must transform himself into a major environmental entity, which in one perfectly coherent and natural way will be the bearer of all changes, which will lead not only to no longer polluting, but to develop and fertilise. How? Today we're taking the first step. Today we're discussing these laws, tomorrow we're going to adopt them, and the next day we're going to have to take action. All of us, MPs, must be ecological leaders in our municipalities, because, by cleaning Sokobanju, Zaječar, Knjižvac, Bolec, Smederevo, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, we are actually cleaning Serbia. The Act on the Protection of Nature, on the one hand, harmonize all legal standards with international legal norms and, on the other hand, much more importantly, protect our natural habitats, preserve flora and fauna and protect endangered species of plants and animals that disappear from the face of the earth every day, due to negligence and, often, negligence. Fortunately, biodiversity, i.e. diversity and diversity of the plant and animal world in Serbia, is such that it in itself initiates the adoption of such a law, which will regulate their preservation, protection and use. By law on air protection, we avoid, prevent or reduce harmful effects on human health and the environment. With this law, we will reduce or prevent pollution that affects the damage to the ozone layer, climate change, reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, and thus, with Kyoto protocol, make our contribution to the fight against global warming. In addition to measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, this law clearly defines responsibilities, which is very important. It defines responsibility for non-compliance and non-application of the measures prescribed by law. I think our country's industry is for the application of these laws, which must be characterized through a partner relationship with the state. In the end, this set of laws, in its essence, will raise people's awareness that we did not inherit nature from our ancestors, but that we borrowed it from our descendants and that we must preserve it in all its aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17026	Thank you. I give my word to MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17027	Dear gentlemen of the ministry, dear colleagues, these days Kosjeric, from the province, has moved to the centre and the time has come for an MP from the province town to speak his word. Previously, using the deductive method, from general to special, I'm going to use a few sentences to say in general about today's set of laws. We once declared and forced industrialization, and, in the epilogue, we didn't develop industry, and we dirtyed, stained, and ruined nature. Now, like other countries, we have come to an imperative, we have to try new industrial development, to use new economic development, to protect and restore the authority of nature, to bring the environment back to what level people must have. Today we can say, perhaps a little bit in the ironic tone, that the present civilization winner – a plastic bag and a plastic bottle, has reached both the highest peaks and the deepest canyons. There's no place where a civilization winner hasn't made it. What we must, which is time to understand and apply in Serbia, is a theory of sustainable development, as one compromise, as a result of three components, often, until now, and perhaps in the future, contradictory and contradictory – an economic component, a desire to achieve profit, social, to protect the standard of living of employees, and, third, ecological, to protect nature and the environment. We need to implement the theory of sustainable development in all business strategies, from municipalities to businesses and finally to the state. It's one of the most important tickets to our European trip. I am now returning to the town of Koseric, often mentioned these days, where this disparity, this paradox, this contrast between economic, between profits and between ecological, perhaps most pronounced, or expressed as much as in other cities that have so-called. Big contaminants. In one word, Kosjerić is a small town, everything depends on this factory – and life, but also pollution. There is no life without this factory, but at the same time we have long inherited and extended air pollution, which is why Kosjerić, as well as the other so-called. The cement cities, they have a lot of problems and, finally, they have a bigger drain of people than they're born. 15 years ago, in Koserić we had 17,000 residents in the municipality, and now we have 14,000 inhabitants. Beware of the paradox, Kosjeric is the first on Serbia's ranking list at salary level. Statistical error or delusion, because Koserić has one large factory, and it's all about the factory, and there's something on the budget, and the rest is underdeveloped. That gives, statisticalally, the highest average. Koseric could have belonged to undeveloped, marginal areas if it wasn't for that big system of ours. This contrast between economic and ecological is most noticeable. A brief genesis of our contaminant, or our source of life, cement factory. It's been there for 33 years, and it's made over ten million tons of cement. By 2005, she had been working on a mule, there was a huge amount of air pollution, and every day dust had to be cleaned, for example, from a car window or door. In 2002 it was privatization and did not reduce the dust in the first year, at least it was not seen. In 2005, thanks to Prime Minister Ilic's imperative task, where his MPs were surprised by the oil-cox, alternative fuel – petrol-cox was introduced. That's when, as always, there was a change in those small environments, there was a major disturbance. It was about chemical consequences, increased air pollution, etc. What exists today in Koserić, and I believe in another so-called To cement and similar cities, it is a complete contrast. On the one hand, for 33 years, the factory has presented graphics and data, saying that all parameters that are monitored far below the limits allowed for the lives of people and for the environment. On the other hand, citizens, doctors, individual NGOs, youth organisations "Key Town", etc., those who are the future of Koseric, say the opposite, that air pollution is such that such substances are broadcast, we are talking about current fuel oil-cox, that it is difficult to endure and that this causes damage to people's health. A memorandum of understanding came in that middle of the year last year. That's another reason for public harassment. What I tell the citizens of Koserić, i.e. New Serbia's environmental team Koseric, as a member of the CIS, because Koseric signed a memorandum of understanding, as the minister repeatedly reiterated, there are no technological conditions in Koseric for the tire and other waste burner, for the transmission of dioxins and furans into the air. In addition, Koseric did not even apply, nor submitted a request for the burning of municipal waste. From that angle, at least by 2012, there is no danger, or any alarming claims that tires are on fire, which is what our representatives here were talking about. I would interpret that as a political argument, especially when they come from New Serbia, where this alternative fuel is practically, oil-cox, and came, thanks to the purchase contract annex, signed by Mr Velimir Ilic, the then minister. Finally, what exists in the town of cement, Koseric, and what will be, is that contrast; there will always be those two sexes, those two fiercely opposed sexes – one by the factory, where all the elements of the purchase contract are said to be fulfilled, and the other by citizens and some institutions, who say all the opposite, that the environment is completely attacked, that it is threatened. That is why the local administration is asking, appealing, asking for the help of the Ministry of Ecology, asking you, as an ecological team, team of experts and team of enthusiasts, who are indeed, I am sure, committed to this problem, to intersect in the style of folk proverbs – neither the grandmother nor the uncles, to be the center, to be the measure, to be the result of what they are. Therefore, Koseric cannot, nor can other cities where there are large polluters, live one day without his contaminant, air pollutants, but he cannot even allow the air pollutant and air pollution to go beyond the measures allowed by law and that are tolerable to citizens. In that sense, once again I pray to the Ministry next. First, it is possible, as the minister promised, to automatically monitor – that a display appears in our small town, and our municipality will also help to subsidise, a display with published data. Secondly, to participate actively when talking about new projects and meeting environmental pollution programmes by the cement factory "Titan". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17028	Thank you. He has the word National MP Mr. Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17029	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, honourable fellow MPs, when I tell you that my family house is only 100 metres from the largest open septic cave in Europe, then those who don't know me will know that I live in Vrbas and that, along with Bor and Panchevo, I come from one of the most polluted environments in our country. In my day, 30 and over years ago, as a journalist, I wrote about this problem, I gave this titled "The Greatest Open Septic Cave in Europe". We know that Vrbas has always been a strong food center, with Carnex, Vital, Sugar in Vrbas, Sugar in Red, Pig Farm, etc. We can say it's a kitchen where 50 years of food has been made, and it's never been cleaned. Today, there are about 400,000 cubic metres of mud that needs to be cleaned in the Bačka canal, about six kilometers long, that flows through the Vrbas. It is not only the mud of organic origin from these factories of the food sector, but also from "Istra" from the Tower, "Freedom" from the Tower, the former Svilara from Vrbba, etc. When I first entered this House in 2000, I asked to be a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and I was a deputy chairman of the Committee. Then we were able to establish some kind of contact with the Norwegian government, later with the Norwegian Water Institute "Niva", with the Czech "Deconto", to initiate the process of cleaning up the Great Back Channel and the final solution to this problem. I'm not going to bother you right now with what's been done and how much effort has been put into it then, but I want to say that the first minister of environmental protection in 2000, Mrs. Angelka Michael, has shown great understanding for this. After the change of government and in the Vrbas itself, we went to the then Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, Mr Popovic, to ask him jointly not to stop this project, because next to that channel, I was not only raised by me and my four children, but also by the children of thousands of Vrbasans. This channel also endangered the population of the municipalities of Kula, Vrbas, Srbobran, Vienna, and the whole of Vojvodina, as it all goes through the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem. People have excavated this channel for just seven years, from 1974 to 1981, with a very scarce technique at the time, digging manually, along with the ox and horse restraint, and today we need all the technology possible and some 45m euros to clean it up, in the 21st century. I have no doubt of good faith, since ministers also after Angelka Mihajlov, Mr Popovic, later Mr. Sasa Dragin, and Oliver Dulic today, have shown full awareness of the problem we face and that the food industry cannot exist, nor can he have ISO standards if a channel of this quality of water flows past the food-producing factories. In modern times, the planetary, global economic crisis, caused by the incomprehensible grace of the world's financial centres of power, should be remembered and said to Mahatma Gandhi: "The earth produces enough to meet the needs of every person on the planet, but not enough to satisfy the greed of every person on the planet." Pragmatism and conformism of everyday life have thrown most of the civilization's achievements in the field of humanism and human relations towards man, but also man to his natural environment, which has been heard from most of my colleagues in this respected home. As a 21st-century paradigm, may the current image of a non-hygiene settlement near Gazela, just a few hundred miles away from the Hotel Intercontinental. At this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had a whole set of laws aimed at protecting the environment. The importance of this topic is sufficiently reflected in the fact that around 40% of the EU rules, out of the 156 thousand sides, refer to the area of environmental protection and agriculture. EU directives leave opportunities for us as a state to regulate a single area with one or five laws, or, for example, as Slovaks, to have one general law on environmental protection. Our definition is clear from the agenda of this session – to go through special, specialized laws. Otherwise, the area of environmental protection, according to EU legislation, covers mutually harmonised horizontal legislation – environmental impact assessment, strategic impact assessment, information and public participation in decision-making, standardisation and reporting methods, monitoring and cross-sectoral activities, such as conditions of sustainable use of natural resources and resources, responsibility for environmental damage to the environment and others; legislation in areas, air, water, nature and natural resources, forests, land, biodiversity and others; industrial risk, integrated control, pollution prevention, eco-labelling, environmental management, noise, chemicals, geneticly modified organisms, climate change, waste and other. Some rough evaluations of the implementation of the directive, for example, on municipal waste management and the environmental pollution directive, are estimated at around 80 to 120 billion euros, and a profit that can be achieved over the longer term is estimated at around 600m euros. The principle – pay contaminant, cohesion funds, access funds and budget – will give an answer to how much and within what time we are ready to implement these directives. Only translation, professional processing and language editorials, verification and publication of regulations cost Slovenia around 10m euros, and Slovenia, for example, will, when it comes to the wastewater directive in the area of environmental protection, be a member of the EU only in 2015 and Poland in 2021, so that we are not a big exception to environmental degradation and environmental relations in Europe. The complexity, complexity and interdependence of phenomena and processes in the environment requires an integrated approach and a definition of principles and conditions for the normative regulation of the area of management of natural values and environmental protection. Sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection is a modern requirement that provides complete harmony between man and his activities and nature, thus achieving the right of present and future generations to a healthy environment. The world that has become, indeed, a global village must find a clear answer to all economic challenges, not just the greenhouse effect. It's not possible to find the problem alone and isolated. In this field, more than clearly, the importance of integration processes, above all, is that of Serbia's EU accession. The big step forward, along with the laws already mentioned, united at the previous point, is, of course, the amendments and additions to the environmental laws, the assessment of the impact on environmental protection, as well as the laws on the protection of nature, air, from noise in the environment and the sustainable use of the fish fund. Although formally separated, all these laws are mutually conditioned in full correlation. Therefore, DS MPs, as members of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, will support the law. In order for all these laws to have their full meaning and content, as a society, we must create awareness of their importance, but also a consensus on the need to implement criminal measures against those who do not apply them. That is why I am taking the opportunity to support, in principle, Minister Dulic's announcement that school education is being introduced in the field of environmental protection. I also run for the title of the subject – ecological ethics. Again, a question must be asked before all of us, which in the fifth century BC was asked by Socrates – what a good life it is and how we, as moral beings, should behave. Our children need to know that, looking for this answer, Bertrand Russell has identified morality as a proper concept of the goals of life, saying that in terms of the achievement of science that can turn into the opposite. Then, thinking about social and personal standards, we'll probably agree with John Smith, who found it to be a life that can be led without shame or fear. The shame and shame that every one of you feels that Serbia has largely turned into a huge dump and an environment with a completely irresponsible attitude towards the environment, we can only overcome the active relationship in changing the situation, creating a legislative framework, which we are doing today, and the permanent participation in the 'clean Serbia' action, by changing habits, such as carelessness, neglect, unculture and urban underdevelopment. Since the famous ecological devisor "Think globally, act locally", this exhibition will end with the aphorism of a great environmental activist, a famous painter from my hometown of Vrbasa – a waste basket, the greatest monument to the culture of a nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17030	Thank you. I give the word to Mr. Milisav Petronivic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17031	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues Miletic Mihajlović and Zoran Bortić spoke very closely about the laws, as we say, about the set of environmental laws, announced the support of the SPS-JS Group and I would no longer take up time for that. I want to welcome and support the government's intention to engage in solving these very important issues. So, we welcome the government's intention, which came out with this set of laws in front of the National Assembly, and I expect the government to engage with even greater zeal and enthusiasm in implementing these laws, not only because we need these laws because of the harmonisation of national legislation with EU regulations, but because of the future, because of health, because of our people, above all. There are a lot of very important laws here. I'll only stay for one moment, and these are amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, for the simple reason, because everything we're talking about, in fact, is intended to protect the environment, because it's a system of measures that this law covers and I want to keep very briefly on it. Before I ask a question, I want to say that the primary goal is to ensure a healthy environment, to preserve natural resources, to protect people's health. Is there anyone who can say that's not the ultimate goal? The constitutional right of every man is guaranteed, and that is a healthy environment. However, the most common violation is that right. We all have environmental protection in our programs, but somehow she's in our second part of the program. Natural resources, so to speak, are being spent, used in one cruel way. People's health has been questioned, and then we're watching how to find money to heal people. We therefore welcome this law because it speaks of politics in this area, and the focus of this policy is, on the one hand, to preserve a high level of environmental protection, and, on the other hand, its foundation on economic principles, in principle – the pay user, the polluter pays. Environmental protection policy must be focused on sources of pollution, with a view to ensuring a balanced relationship between development interests and the need to protect the environment. The only reason I came forward was to actually clarify this issue, on the one hand, economic development, on the other hand, the need to protect the environment. If there's no balance, there's no job. Why would I ask that? For the simple reason I believe that this government has the best intention of introducing order in this part, but it can be an impression, at first glance, that protection of economic operators is a priority. Of course, no one can question development, but it also cannot question a healthy environment. I insist on that, on the balance between economic development and the need for the environment. I want to support the government's intention to introduce more order when it comes to using funds at the level of local self-government. I want to support the government's intention to put in order that these funds cannot be used without purpose, that they cannot be determined without measure, that a budget fund be introduced. It's all for support, but I want to take the opportunity to give the Minister of Environment a chance to make it very clear to the public, with all the support. So, if it's art. 84, 85 and 87. The government has expressed its intention to impose order when it comes to taxes at local self-government level, to impose order when it comes to non-purpose spending, to introduce order when it comes to the upper limit, it deserves support. HHHhhhH clearly must be told to local self-government units that the proposed laws will not question the necessary resources for local self-government units, above all, in areas that are threatened. I have a question, very specific. Today, we have listened to a lot of people talking about the problems they face in Serbia. We are, by the way, inclined to appreciate the healthy environment only when we lose it, only when it is demoted. On one case, Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you for an answer. I believe, knowing how bravely you've gotten into all this, that we're going to go to the public with a clear answer, let's say, in the case of two municipalities, Lazarec and Obrenovac. In Obrenovac and Lazarevec, in part, Lajkovac, there are significant energy potentials that have been developed, some surface carbon exploitation spears and a strong energy system "Nikola Tesla'A and B. They have become a major and significant factor in environmental degradation. Large amounts of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater, which pollute air, land, underground and surface waters, are daily excreted. I know you have that information, but let me rephrase it. The combustion of coal at the Termoelectrica in Obrenovac and the large environments creates huge amounts of ash, which are partly released through the chimney, while the remaining quantities are being postponed to the dumps. Deposits are not treated properly, so in an unfavourable direction of the wind, however, it is always unfavourable for someone, any direction, the entire area of the splashes with large amounts of ash containing large amounts of metal. The entire settlements of Obrenovac municipality, Grabovac, Dren, Skela, Lazarec, Velika Crljani, Sokolovo, Junkovac, Vreoci, and when that happens, the houses of ashes and slags, gardens, fields are all poisoned. I know you have that data, but let me just point out, when you burn in Termoelectrica A and B near 100,000 tons of coal a day, over 200 tons of various particles and nearly 20,000 tons of ash and slags are being delayed to dumps, which, by the way, are huge, 400 to 600 hectares, instead of being smaller, casteous. Not to mention the question of the Vreoc, which is the black spot in Serbia, the gaps, the fecal waters. These people's questions are rightly asked. We're going to respect all the changes in the law, we're going to respect the need to introduce order, are we going to have enough resources to protect that environment? Will this demoted environment be able to get in line? I will conclude, my whole story is, I return to the beginning, that we must insist on a balance between economic development and the need to protect the environment. If that's not there, there's no job in this area. It is clear to all of us that the entire energy complex must develop, but it must be clear to them that what is degraded in the environment must be brought into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17032	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17033	I thank Mr Petronivic for this question, because I think that Obrenovac is a very good example of how through the implementation of the measures, which today represent the implementation of the latest technologies, this problem can be solved. So that's the same thing for Verbas. We're talking about heavy historical pollution here, which cannot be solved overnight and require huge investment, which we don't have as a state. I think you've chronologically cited what's been done over the past few years to make the Great Back Channel no longer a black spot. Unfortunately, in the future, he'll probably be in the focus of our attention for a long time, but we're working on it every day, trying to solve that problem. The same goes for Obrenovac and Kostolac. What is an exception to the rules that exist in Serbia, when it comes to municipalities and the use of funds, is the Obrenovac municipality. We've had a lot of conversations with the Obrenovac municipality, because they can't fit into the category of municipalities on which we can confirm the example that the funds have been spent without purpose. The total, or huge amount of environmental resources, which, in principle, is paid by the polluter, in some ways, is being installed in the Environmental Protection Fund, which is precisely coming from electricity plants. Obrenovac municipality is a huge charger of the budget, because environmental degradation is due to the consequences that occur in thermal power plants and how large. So it happened that the Obrenovac municipality in one year has several tens of millions of euros in the Environmental Protection Fund that cannot spend objectively correct the situation in the environment, in the sense that, for example, it does a joint investment with electricity, that a certain amount of ash and these matter in the air is reduced, and, on the other hand, these funds are not enough to invest them to solve some burning problem. On this particular case, and thanks to these laws that we're making, we'll have a special category for such municipalities. It is a category of particularly endangered environments, municipalities in which the environment is particularly endangered. The government, when it comes to Obrenovac, Panchevo, Bor and other municipalities that are inhabited, the Great Back Channel, tomorrow maybe somewhere else, will define some special program. Now I'm going to tell you what was specifically done in 2008, when we're trying to fight the problem of the Obrenovac. Each second, 2.7 kilos of different matter was released into the air above the thermal power plant. By installing the filter, in 2008, we managed to bring that percentage down to 75 grams per second. There's still a large amount of matter being released into the air. They are, I'm not telling you, the result of the huge energy activity that thermal power plants are carrying out, but they've been down by a few dozen times, and that's real proof that only by investing, or installing new technologies, can this problem be solved. That, of course, we will continue to do so. We need to create a special EPS program, because EPS needs to meet the standards that mean installing. They represent IPC facilities and by 2015 they must adapt to the standards that the EU implies, by extending the deadlines to, as I understand it, 2017, precisely respecting the reality and the fact that these are really huge investments. HHHhhH Every municipality in particular, which is mentioned here today, has its own program on how to deal with problems, which are, above all, the result of historical pollution. Please, and this is a special message to citizens living in these municipalities, working daily, working intensively, investing huge funds. It is not possible overnight to fix the situation, but I think everyone today can admit, here, first of all, to apostrophe of the citizens of Panchev, but also other municipalities, to see certain shifts and that at this point the situation in the environment, regardless of the enormous amount of degradation that was happening, is much better than it was before these investments. We'll keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17034	Thank you. The word is Mr. Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17035	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, a set of 13 environmental laws is, above all, important for improving the conditions of life and the work of our citizens and exceeds the usual polemics and outwitting of political parties. In a country where there are wild garbage dumps and other waste dumps, where every day every day every single one of us is a witness that some of our fellow citizens throws a garbage bag out of a car, out of a window or in a river, it's necessary to adopt environmental laws that protect our environment. Is it too late to pass these laws? It's not. Should 13 of these laws have been passed quickly? Yes, it's very important. My life call is a call from a forest engineer and me and the locals in the middle where I live we're very interested in this topic. I come from the municipality of Kučevo, which is known for Žanka Stokic, Djorđa Marjanovic and poet Stevan Raičković. Unfortunately, in our municipality, the city's garbage dump and other waste is only 100 metres away from the water source. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a system of protection and promotion of the environment, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, as well as the production and transport of toxic, radioactive and other hazardous substances. We have before us a set of laws that adequately bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules, remove shortcomings detected during the application of existing laws, as well as compliance with other system laws in the field of environmental protection. The focus of environmental policy is a high level of protection and its foundation on economic principles, both at local level and at regional and global level. Nature protection is one of the basic areas in environmental protection. The proposal for a Nature Protection Act lays down measures to protect nature and natural values, which are carried out by establishing and assessing the situation, protecting natural resources, management programmes for economic resources in forestry, agriculture, mining and other activities, and then encouraging professional work in the field of nature protection, informing the public about the state of nature, as well as establishing the responsibility of environmental entities. In the case of amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, one of the newspapers is that the national strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods is brought by the government. The government then lays down criteria for determining environmental status, as well as criteria for setting priorities for recovery and remediation. It is predicted that environmental programmes can be financed through grants, loans and international aid. The government prescribes criteria and determines areas of particular social interest in the field of environmental protection, as well as the level and manner of payment of environmental pollution compensation, as well as the possibility of a local self-government unit to provide compensation for environmental protection and improvement. Autonomous province and local self-government units have been established to open a budget fund, in accordance with a law governing the budget system. The proposed solutions in the law provide responsibility for environmental protection entities, on the one hand, and for the competent authorities of the Republic, the provinces and local self-government, on the other hand. The status of the Environmental Protection Fund, its sources of funding and use of funds is specified. The problem of non-intentional spending of funds is solved, especially in municipalities. The newspaper, when changing the holder of land use rights, is that the user of land whose right to use ceases, whose activity has affected the functions of the land, is obliged to draw up a report on the state of the land. I believe that a whole set of proposed laws will contribute to strengthening legislative, institutional, economic and public awareness. I thank the representatives of the Ministry for preparing these laws and for their presence in our session. I'll support a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17036	The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has the word, and after him, the Messenger Srdjan Mikovic. I'm asking MP Munir to sign up for a word, so he can get a word in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17037	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and members of your ministry, dear colleagues, above all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the work of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Cooperation with the members of the Ministry, who have always been numerous on our committee. The result of such co-operation is these laws that are in Parliament these days. He who waits is the welcome. I wanted to stress my role, as MPs, as they say, that it becomes invisible, that all our work and effort, in every respect, can be measured and felt among our citizens and in our country, all of what is done to maintain clean water, clean air and soil we live on. If we don't have clean air, if we don't have drinking and healthy water, if we don't have healthy food, we're wasting everything else we're doing. I would like to say from this place, as a responsible man, that these fellow MPs, not only by name, but also by family, deserve to be MPs, to bear responsibility, and everyone who spoke today and these days means one appeal to do everything in the direction of protecting our environment to keep our quality of life and to increase. If we say that nearly a thousand billion bags are produced annually in the world, that is literally, every day the hills of such bags that come around us, if the process of decomposing them is 500 to 1,000 years, we can imagine what kind of future is coming to us. Recently, somewhere in the Pacific, a floating island the size of Texas was discovered; it says that 200 species of marine beings were killed by such a form of garbage. Today we're talking more and more about medical waste, radioactive waste, various types of waste and chemicals, so science just grabs, i.e. Can he track what's happening in all that junk and their combination? I'm afraid there may be a lot of laws, but if we ourselves don't take some responsibility in that direction, it'll be a lost battle at the beginning. I'd like to make a good point. A very strong campaign, "Let's Clean Serbia", is currently under way in Serbia. The source of this campaign is the global campaign "Let's Clean the World". Before that, we had the "million Trees for Serbia" campaign. Many organisations in Serbia are involved in various types of environmental 'green' movements, and all of these organisations seem to raise awareness of our citizens at this local level, so that they themselves take part in the fight for a healthy and cleaner world and the environment. I have two things I wanted to send as a message. I also promise to Mr. Dulic, as Minister, and to you who are with Dulic as experts, everything there is in Pazar, in Sandzak, in that space, where I come as an MP, that I will first inform you of what we have done there, and then I will ask you for help, that together, as partners, we solve things in that direction. There are problems, enough to mention a large number of filters that do not work well enough, or are not usable in the processing of water from the quarry when the gins are processed, and of those waters that come out into the river there are no more lives in those rivers. The second thing, I'm going to make a personal contribution to these laws, because today I'm going to make a promise to my colleagues, because I'm a smoker, that I'm not smoking anymore. I'd like you to help me, too. [[Applause]] It's probably not gonna be easy. I think each of us can take a step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17038	The People's Messenger Srdjan Mikovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nandor Maraci.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17039	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Panchev. I think it's clear enough why the Pancians are looking at what they're going to get in terms of legal solutions. I remind you that there are over 20,000 tons of ammonia in Pancheva, that there are almost always 1,500 tons of ethylene in production and in tanks, practically one and a half megaton, because we must not forget that ethylene has explosive properties like TNT. In Pancheva, six-seven thousand tonnes of oil alone were charged daily in the oil refinery, with 7.295 auto-cistern, 275 railway tanks and 59 tankers loaded in January. All this says enough what the concerns of Pancheva and Pančevci for the environment are, which is why we expect not only this set of laws, but the system of civil protection, the overall response to challenges, prevention and treatment in the event of incidents. But now I'm going to look back on this very set of laws that we're now discussing. From every new environmental law, the public of Panchev rightly expects to improve the chances of improving the environment. Of particular importance to Pancheva are the law on air protection and the bill on changes and additions to the Law of the Environment. When it comes to air protection law, we expect a series of unregulated or inadequately regulated relations in the area of air quality monitoring and control. Just because we would provide adequate information to each citizen about the state of the environment, Panchevo introduced an automatic continuous monitoring of air quality amongst the first. This allowed citizens to immediately, practically within an hour, inform about the state of the environment, about the state of air pollution, and not, as until then, wait 24 hours to get complete information. This, in practice, enabled increased public pressure on the competent institutions, on factories located directly next to the first houses, which are also located in the Refinery, both Azotar and Petrochemy. All these factories have come up with action plans to protect the environment, and the competent ministry has stepped up inspection controls in factories. Although Panchevo had no official permit to measure emissions, it means to measure the levels of polluting matter in the environment, it practically increased pressure and allowed this information to be used both by state authorities and by factories. All of this, a joint effort by many subjects, has allowed the concentration of benzene to be reduced in the air, and carcinogenic matter, as well as other flavours, to date. So, it's on a big road trip, and if we all go that way together, we're gonna get to the final goal, to the recovery of the polluted environment so far. The Law on Air Protection, given that it is in line with EU directives in this area, practically foresees air quality control throughout the territory of the Republic. It will be done in a more modern way. Just what Pančevo has come to, by adopting these legal texts, by adopting sublegal acts and applying in practice, and this is not a small way, we will allow problems to finally be solved in other environments that have similar problems. Finally, the law provides for the possibility of local self-government to measure levels of polluting matter in the environment, and I think that's very important. The Environmental Protection Agency as part of the state network of automatic air quality monitoring stations sets up another automatic station in Panchev. On his part, the city has speeded up all procedures to make this happen, and the province of Vojvodina has also established a network of stations for continuous monitoring on its territory. This is a positive example of co-operation between state, province and local institutions. In addition, the air protection law prescribes certain obligations and procedures in the field of information and reporting. That is why I would point out to you members 65, 66 and 67 of the Air Protection Act, where Article 66, which refers to the content of air quality information, provides for a series of information that we, within the framework of the local self-government in Pancheva, have sought to put into consideration our citizens. Finally, I am sure that we are all absolutely all in this room for the full exercise of the right provided for in Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, right to a healthy environment. As an MP from Panchev, I urge you to support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17040	The People's Messenger Nandor Maraci has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17041	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, respected members of the Ministry and respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, these environmental laws we are discussing today are extremely important and necessary in order to preserve, in some way, the ruined nature and environment in which we live. Today we heard many very good proposals by the position and by the opposition. I think many proposals will be included in the laws, which are extremely important, and become an integral part of these laws. Everyone has a right to their own opinion, and I have a right to my own opinion. I believe these laws are good, or every law is as good as they are respected. However, I would like to talk about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Although this law has been criticised by some of my colleagues and colleagues, I believe that there have been well-intentioned criticism and transfer of the opinions of fishing alliances, which is also how it is necessary for the ministry to adopt this law. But they could deliver their proposals, opinions, suggestions through a public debate to the Ministry of Ecology, as did the Kanjija Sports Fishing Association. It delivered its opinion to the ministry and some proposals were accepted and became an integral part of this law. It would not be good for me not to mention those who have broken this law for years by causing catastrophic consequences and flora and fauna of our fishing waters by polluting waste water and chemicals. For example, today we have heard from more than one of them that the Great Back Channel of Red is highly polluted to the east; the ecological disaster is at stake, I can freely say that the fish fund has been destroyed. The Tisa River is no exception. In 2007, many species of fish were killed from Sainta to Vienna. About 80 tons of dead fish were removed from Tisa and destroyed. There were other disasters in these waters, because of the negligence of those who did not obey the regulations, or law. This is an opportunity for all of this to be corrected and, to the great satisfaction of around 130 sports associations of Vojvodina fishermen, this law will address the issue of water pollution. The second question is the depletion of our waters. It's mostly fished by carp, but other species of fish are being hunted, and if we don't take more care of returning the younger fish to our fishing waters, which are already quite poored by many species, large extracts, pollution... What's even more tragic is that fish growers are causing great damage to our fishing waters. For example, 70km of fish thieves in Vojvodina were seized last year. Isn't that enough warning for all of us who want to save the Duke's fish fund? I'm talking about a situation that is present in Vojvodina, because I've been a sports fisherman for over 40 years and it's normal for me to want to save, along with my fellow fishermen, who have about 30,000 in Vojvodina, a fish fund. What's very good, there are criminal provisions in this law. The fines aren't small. It seems to me that they are not enough for some violations, because the damages they are inflicted are invaluable, which is why we need the fishermen of our waters throughout Serbia who will preserve the fish fund from those who break the law. A member of the 53rd Law is extremely well written. Each point from 1) to 26) allows inspectors to keep our fishing waters, or Serbia's fish fund, on the basis of their powers, honest work. As proof that it's not all so black I'm going to try a few sentences to introduce you to the work of the Association of Sports Fishermen in Kanjija. There are some 800 sports fishermen in the municipality, there are about 300 pioneers; for the eighth year there is a fishing school, about 100 pioneers graduated last year. Isn't that a nice example of how young children have been taught to fish and protect nature? The Tisa River is 40km long from the border to the Centa and there are many channels, from which I will single out the Tisa-Palic channel. Last year, tens of thousands of carpal younger men were released into that channel in a move from Tisa along the Tisa. The water's clean and there's plenty of fish. Eighteen volunteers and two professional guards take care to keep it that way. Many competitions are held on our waters. You could say a lot of positive things. I don't want to brag about them much, so they don't dare to work like this anymore. I think there are a lot of sports alliances in Vojvodina and Serbia that work in a similar way. Mr. Minister, I'd also like to say a few words about the natural phenomenon of the Tisa River, which is a press flower, which appeared after years, because Tisa was polluted. With great pleasure, I can say that Tisa has been flowering for several years. It became one brand, so there are more tourists visiting Kanjiza, where the strongest flowering is right next to the city of Kanjiza. This year, German television announced it would record this natural phenomenon, which must be protected in the future. I must tell you that the Fishing Federation of Vojvodina has sent a request to the Department of Nature Protection of Serbia to consider protecting the larva of the Tisa River to prevent the extinction of the species due to excessive spillage. I think this is a very good example for the Ministry to think a little more in the future that these natural phenomena, which are the only minors in Serbia in the world, are being preserved from those that are ruining Tisa and the press flower. In the end, I will pass on one proposal to the Kanjiža Sports Fishing Association, which is to decide by sublegal act to make the noise a sport tool and to read with the fishing licence. In many countries, there is a noise sports tool. As an example, they can list Spain, Russia, Hungary and the surrounding countries. Every year, large competitions are held in the Danube and Tisa, can be mentioned: The Golden Cuisin of Tekia, the competition in Kanjija, Apatino, etc. Mr. Minister, the proposal is to consider, with the opinion and other sports associations of Serbia, and please put this in some way by means of a sublegal act. I propose that in the voting day we accept this set of environmental laws, and since I have stated that this law on the protection of the fish fund is extremely important, I ask you to accept and vote this law in the voting day. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17042	The People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz, has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17043	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, is a great pleasure, it seems to me, for the first time in this country's history, to draw a line and to bring a package of system laws so necessary to this society, in addition to the adopted strategy by the Ministry. My esteemed colleagues have said a lot of good things about these legal proposals. It seems to me that all discussions justified the move to this high house and that a new style is slowly being introduced into Serbia's parliamentary life, I will knock into the tree as well. It seems to me that for the sake of Serbian citizens, it is necessary to say that over a hundred laws treat the area we are talking about, as well as a number of sublegal acts, regulations, decisions by local self-government, a lot of action plans, strategies, etc. The awareness of Serbia's current environmental situation is absolutely matured, I think, with all the national representatives. In addition to everything bad that we see every day in our society, it seems to me that in recent years – since several laws were passed in 2001 because of the campaigns and local levels – awareness of the healthy lifestyle, the healthy environment and the need to preserve it matures with the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister said in the opening statement, and one or two colleagues noted this, that, in addition to developing the ecological consciousness and despite a series of campaigns to be conducted in this regard, so far criminal penalties and penalties for economic crimes for all those who acted otherwise were more than mild. We've had a lot of examples of major environmental disasters, but no court has ever imposed a maximum sentence. It seems to me that there is a need for a rational observation of how these laws will be applied tomorrow in practice. As for the minister and the ministry and the board of directors, as members of the list for European Serbia, I am very pleased with your very correct, safe and responsible work. Now everything will be left to your supervision, your monitoring of the measures, the implementation and control of inspection bodies, and we as national representatives will do everything possible to follow what is within the jurisdiction of the other ministries, that is, the law that will be passed these days. Of course, every local environment has its own problems. I'm from Kragujevac, and we don't remember that she used to swim with Lepenca fish. It's a big problem with children's diseases, especially with the respiratory system, and there's a huge increase in asthma patients, especially children. Yesterday, I walked past Lake Gružan, where as a local committee, we ran a campaign to protect Lake Gružan. The ministry has done a lot about the destruction of illegally erected objects near the Zavojsky Lake near Piroth. So far, there has been an apparent conflict of jurisdiction over the Georgian lake. Believe that yesterday, there were more men who were just sitting in front of their illegally erected objects, compared to the fishermen. All three belts of sanitary protection on Lake Gružan are most drastically damaged, and this lake is the main waterbender of Kragujevac as regards drinking water. If it were technological water or technical water, there would be a lot of justification for this kind of treatment. I say, we, not only as a local committee, but also as the president of Knic municipality, the head of the district and the mayor of Kragujevac, took a number of actions in that direction. I believe that the problem of the Georgian Lake will finally be resolved after the adoption of these laws. Secondly, in addition to all the bad things we have said, we should say something that is still the perspective of our country – healthy food, ecotourism, healthy water is a great chance of this country. In addition to a large number of contaminants, we still have, as a state, huge potential. It seems to me that rarely any state in Europe has such natural resources as Serbia: both rivers, lakes, forests, meadows and all that is needed. There are, fortunately, still large areas where the environment is not threatened, no flora and fauna are at risk. It seems to me that I'm at that age when I'm not looking with excessive euphoria at everything that's good. I believe that in the implementation and application of these regulations, there will be major problems, as there have been so far, because we should not forget our situation in the judiciary, what our inspection services are, let us not forget the influence of local businessmen and local tycoons on all the competent services. I promise, in front of the SPO, in front of the list for European Serbia, that everything we notice from this area of social life will be negatively said for the assembly speaker. The SPO will be very happy to vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17044	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17045	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but, above all, the citizens of Serbia, very often when someone is speaking in this room, you hear that everything bad that happens in this country is someone else's fault. Indeed, it is hard for an ordinary citizen to tell whether anyone is really there in Brussels, Bon, Berlin, Vienna and Paris with only one thought – what I will do to those citizens of Serbia today. Then you go to the valley of West Morava, which I think is the most beautiful part of Serbia, from the beautiful town of Užica, to the Chačka and even more beautiful town of Kraljev, Kruševac, and look at West Morava and see tons and tons of waste floating along that river, see millions of plastic bottles and wonder who threw it, is it anyone from Vienna, Berlin, Rome or Brussels, or did they throw people living in this country? I would very much like to say, in the context of this debate, as my esteemed colleague Dejan Nikolic from Sokobanja or Bojana Stanojevic from Vrnjaka Banja, that I also come from some ecological environment, from some ecological municipality. I, fortunately, come from Kruševec, but unfortunately, DS does not exercise power in Kruševec. Mr. Minister, in the town of Krusevec, environmentalism has become a lucrative party business. Our environmental work in Krusevec has become a party issue. Ecology deals exclusively with one party, because it exercises power and has attracted all resources concerning environmental problems into its own hands. A month ago within the party, and it is the SRS, there was a serious conflict, and the conflict was not caused by opposition representatives, but by the leaders of the SRS themselves. Then we Kruševljani found out that under the local ecological plan, the town of Kruševec contains some money that has been misused, through the arrangement of the coast of Rasina for the construction of a beach volleyball field. You know, in the city of Alexandrovac at the time of the Parish harvest, there's a beautiful custom, there's a fountain of wine. We in Kruševec have a wine-free fountain, but it costs several million dinars to arrange and maintain it, as if they drink champagne and not plain water on that tap of Kruševec. On the other hand, there is a serious problem in Kruševec, I do speak as a Kruševljanin on behalf of people living in the center of the town of Kruševac, in Obilić Street, Kosančićovo, Ace Aleksic, in Toplicino, in the square of Kosovo heroes, because these people in the nighttime cannot sleep because of the excessive amount of noise being broadcast in that city. It bothers me, indeed, when someone comes to parliament in a short-sleeve shirt like they're selling ice cream on Tashmajdan, not to sell fog here, but it's his personal thing to show up in parliament. However, if Mrs Gordana Comic and Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic have succeeded in introducing order into this parliament, so that we are attending a civilized debate, I think that order can also be introduced in the town of Krusevec so that these local environmental problems are not a matter solved by political parties, who come out for a month and a half, and each other accuses who is guilty of the situation. Systemic laws should be passed, and it is a real happiness that we also bring today a law that will regulate the level of noise in the town of Kruševec, Čačka, King and Užica, but it is important that this law be enforceable. As counterpart Munir Poturak said, that you will no longer use cigarettes, it is good, to be helped by the legislator has prescribed a fine of 5,000 dinars and can stimulate it quite well, as Mrs. Comic can stimulate all those who miss out on behavior in this hall. I believe that the restoring ministry could take care of those local environments that are unable to care for their citizens in an adequate way and where ecology has become a private resource for the wealth of people from a political party, not a problem that should be addressed by those funds that the Kruševac citizens have identified through the budget for this purpose. We have in Kruševec and other problems. 45,000 euros in dinar equivalent have been spent to edit the florist. For that money, every street could get a garbage can, not a flower shop. That's why the indictment was filed and it's on the prosecutor's desk. It's not my intention to speak ill of my town, Krushevec, but I have to bring up the problems that exist in it. Of course, Serbian citizens recognize these problems. This was seen in the recent elections in Kovin, where the political party that solved these problems so badly in Kruševec was punished – there were more invalid ballots than they had won, as well as in Vrnjak Banja, anyway. Of course, as a Democratic Party, as a party responsible, as a coalition of the ZES, we must take care of the quality of the laws to be passed, but through the institutions of the system we must also take care of the enforceability of that law. How the law is implemented is equally important, as it is important how the law is passed. Finally, I want to read to you something from today's magazine "Today", a contribution from reader Violeta Ž. to how children in Pančev count when they play hide and seek – methane, ethanol, propan, butan, pentan, hexan, heptan, octan, nonan, dean. I am deeply convinced that after these laws and in Serbia children will count – one, two, three, four, five, that the legislator will count ten, twenty, thirty, 500,000 dinars of punishment, and I am deeply convinced that the country that is able to beat the garbage can only then count on democracy to flourish. Only roses bloom, with garbage democracy doesn't bloom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17046	The word has a folk emissary, Bojana Stanojevic. The time available to the MEP group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17047	In recent years, we have witnessed the rapid evolution of environmental thought, and hence environmental protection policies. With this in mind, it is necessary to adopt new regulations and laws, and to adapt existing times to new ones, as well as to EU legislation. Given the reminder of the chairman and the fact that I don't have enough time to present my exposés, I just want to say that I come from Vranjska Banja, from the middle that has an undisputed natural good, since the Nature Protection Act provides for the declaration of protected natural goods, and certainly one of the most beautiful and valuable habitats in our small town is central Banjska Park, which was set up in the late 19th century and designed by the famous Austrian architect Franc Weber. These days, it is near the end of a study on the protection of this natural good, in collaboration with the Republic Institute for Nature Protection, so we are going in this way to step up with the law to be adopted these days. Because of the short time, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17048	The word has been made by Parliament MP Marina Ragus, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17049	If, Mr Milivojevic, you think local elections really mean the strength of the political party within the political system, then you are, at the very least, a very unserious politician. But the SRS really congratulated on winning election results for all who participated in the Kovin local elections. Of course, there will be more choices, the strength of each political party will be measured. Mr. Milivoevich, leave the political phrases. I expected to hear specific data about the environment in the city you're from, but somehow I lost my point, or it wasn't there. But let's cut to the chase. I really don't want to waste my time on political phrases. The time I have at my disposal is 11 minutes, due to political correctness. Today we put out a problem in the village of Belo Polje and we realized that the residents of this village, 600 of them, are preparing to draw attention to the dump you had the opportunity to see in the photograph through the petition. Ms Ljiljana Stanojevic, assistant minister of inspection, reacted without delay and we received a report on the state of the environment. If I understand it correctly, measurements have been carried out in several places, it has been found that the waste resulting from the recycling process is essentially not dangerous and that it has a useful value, but that certainly no pile of waste has been properly left behind and that the reason for this was the suspension of work for three months. So, Mrs. Stanojevic, thank you for this information, which I will forward further. I would like to point out another example that I would like to draw attention to both the resolution ministry and the Serbian public. It doesn't necessarily mean it's a pattern, but listening to today's debate, which was obviously very interesting to Serbian residents, who are trying and all they want is to improve and improve living standards... The recent president of the municipality of Surdulica, Dr Stanislav Momčilovic, sent one piece of information, which I think you should keep in mind, as well as all those who create Serbia's policy in terms of executive authority. When he was president of the Surdulica municipality, he launched a project that was supposed to affect the conservation of the environment, i.e. better use of the fish fund as a national wealth of Serbia. Dr Momčilovic says he really had no problems with the ministry's resolution and all the competent institutions in implementing the Predeo project of exceptional qualities of Vlasin. So, co-operation between the modern local, then radical, authorities with the state were really on an extraordinary level. As far as he's concerned, he didn't have any grudges. But what happens next? When the government changes at the local level, the project stops. In fact, something that can be a strategic goal, related to that local level, is a promotion of the fish fund. It is an example that is not rare and that should be in mind for all of us who are participating in this way in Serbia's political life. Also, what the SRS is trying to put forward as, conditionally speaking, the problem, which is the essence of all these laws, is how realistic they are in practice and when they will be able to implement, given that for all of this, especially for a set of laws in the field of environmental and environmental protection, serious financial structures are needed. We hope that in the perspective we will get an answer in which the state of Serbia thinks it is dealing with this, given that, just to remind you, only this year would the current deficit of the planned 16.1% of GDP be financed, Serbia needs foreign direct investment of around 1.7 billion euros, an additional net debt of 3.9m euros in 2009. As Serbia also reaches 3.6 billion euros in debt in 2009 in order to finance our excessive spending, loans totalling 7.5 billion euros are needed. What can also be heard these days simply, the SRS cannot accept as a fact, is not a people's fault, nor is it a tradition of this people to somehow meet an unhygiene. All these examples that Mr. Milivojevic cited as a picture of the pollution of the river, that these are not done by people from Brussels or other European cities, which we often blame, of course are not examples that stand. All those people who live in, and we really know that because we're traveling through this Europe, we used to live in some European cities... They are arranged by, first of all, being economical strong countries, then the system, strategy, and people eventually began to think in a completely different way. The state of the environment cannot be blamed by the people. It takes a system, and it takes money to make sure it's all in place. When the SRS makes arguments in the sense that we are expressing doubt, and that is our political belief, that the EU will not be able to solve the problems we all talk about these days (I like to talk about concrete data, not political fairy tales and phrases), one of the concrete data is that, according to the EU-Serbia Framework Agreement, Serbia is to receive 771m euros in aid from the IPA Fund. This fund, the reminders, unites earlier forms of assistance, such as CARDS, FAR, ISPA, SAPARD. A few times later, a billion-euro figure appeared in public by 2011. During the morning, I said that only four billion euros are needed for the recovery and investment of the environment in Serbia. Most of the funds, according to Dusica Mojc Zajc, the expert adviser to the Slovenian consulting company R&R, will not be invested in production. On the contrary, around 726m euros will be invested in building institutions in Serbia. Only when Serbia is granted EU candidate status (no one can say for sure when), will it be able to use aid for regional development and agriculture, for example, by experts. Serbia has received less than, say, some countries in the region in a similar context from the EU. IPA assistance, per capita, is in the region between 2007 and 2010: for Montenegro 192 euros, Macedonia 147, Croatia 131 euros, Serbia 103 euros. The question arises – how much money promised and EU assistance will be really used? You have a statement by the Assistant Minister of Finance, Ms Lazarevic, who said the Framework Agreement provides for this: every year Serbia should submit projects to be financed from the EU's three-year budget, adopted in 2007, and then, for each year, projects that need to match the amount of funds that are planned. Slovenian expert Zajc presented at a seminar on EU assistance to Serbia, held in Belgrade, in order for Serbia to make good use of the funds available to it will require that there are at least a few hundred educated individuals in state and scientific institutions and businesses that will focus on all phases of the project. Given that my time is slowly but surely running out, I would ultimately like to quote what Portuguese General Raul Kunya of UNMIK has said, which says the EU has spent four billion euros in Kosovo, and 80% of these investments have been spent on consulting services and building capacity that we have not built. That 80%, or 3.2 billion, has been returned to the EU, but only in two or three countries. So the Union pays as a whole, and two or three countries profit. When we talk about Serbia's accession to the European Union, we should talk first – of course, these are all listed in Mr Dejan Mirovic's book "Agreements against the EU", which are a set of all economic indicators that make a real, concrete picture – what Serbia gets on that path of joining the EU and how much it will cost Serbia. Serbia is in recession this year. Serbia does have very serious plans, but the Serbian government has no answer that all these laws, which we are adopting by emergency procedure, will be able to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17050	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used the right set out in Article 93? The word has a National MP Zlata Djeric, an authorised representative of the NS Group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17051	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, the laws governing environmental protection should not have waited this long for adoption, especially since in the previous government, Dr Vojislav Kostunica had been prepared several times to enter the procedure and for some unexplainable reasons did not enter the procedure then and were not then adopted. All countries in the environment have already started their own fight for a healthy environment through legislation that protects their population, ecosystems and biodiversity. If we don't deal with our environment seriously and responsibly, then we won't need it, but we won't need it. The connection between these problems and their interactions is not only local, they are not regional, it is a question of world environmental protection. There must be a unique world policy on this issue, because we have already realized that the planet is one and that there are no spare spaces for the irresponsible human race on the other. We expect not only that the government will reach a consensus on the issue of a healthy environment, but that several ministries should deal with the creation of a national environmental strategy, because there is room for several ministries to operate, above all, the Ministry of Ecology, but also agriculture, health care and, of course, education. Of course, after the announcement that there will be restrictions in the government, that there will be mergers of some ministries, we hope that such a serious question as what is the issue of environmental protection will not succumb to these restrictions and that it will continue to work quite seriously on it, as well as on the application of these laws that will be adopted. The Law on the Protection of the Air is one of the most important, because man is primarily an alien being and is given by God to dwell on his century in the air environment, to breathe air full of lungs, and only to be fully realized. Data is his privilege to influence the rest of the world, to make all the living world of the planet dependent on its whims, unfortunately, and it, on a daily basis, in the name of technology development, the promotion of civilization, and even political issues, endangers it. Do we have the right, as a human race, to spend our superiority and demonstrate this irresponsiblely? The air is a mixture of gases that make up the atmosphere, in which the dominant oxygen and nitrogen are present and other gases with a tolerated amount of impurities. The imbalances of these ingredients lead to problems, leading to the threat of the living world of the planet. The polluted air affects human health and the entire ecosystem. The atmosphere serves as a means of transporting polluting matter to the farthest locations. The main sources of air pollution are, above all, the heating of apartments, industrial activities, traffic today, of course, so current pollen, but also various deliberate or accidental radiation. The most common pollutant is carbon monoxide. The presence of carbon monoxide already at a concentration of one percent is deadly, poisonous; it is dangerous and insidious because it has no color, no smell, no taste. It is toxic and indirectly contributing to global warming. The biggest carbon monoxide emissions come from traffic. In Europe, as many as 11% of the world's total, so to speak, production of this gas is being broadcast. Sumpor-dioxide is a dangerous contaminant. It's more present in winter than it is in summer, because it's most produced in heating objects. It is the most present in southern, Southeast and central Europe. It is known as smog and therefore the governments of all countries of Europe have set off in a campaign that has reduced, above all, the use of motor vehicles in the central parts of the city, and the issue of heating facilities is trying to solve effectively in other ways and by reducing sulphur dioxide emissions. The greenhouse effect is the fluid of modern civilization and the main cause is carbon dioxide. The result is global warming of the planet, and the anthropogenic source would have to be deeply pictured over everything it does to itself and the living world around it, for its own survival. Acid rains are also a major modern environmental problem. Because of all this, in Japan, Kyoto, in 1997, 55 countries of the largest polluters or the largest producers of toxic emissions that destroy the atmosphere, threatened to threaten the survival of the planet. They made a commitment to reduce their toxic gas emissions by 5% compared to the state it was in 1990. After that, two of the present countries stepped down and gave up their participation in the project. That's, of course, Australia and the United States. They both had a very hypocritical excuse: Australia – that it does not want its dirty technologies to focus on the underdeveloped and thus reduce the number of jobs in its country, while the United States has defended themselves from harming their economy and that they themselves have the opportunity to regulate these problems under their laws. Of course, everything in the U.S. laws are regulated, and we need someone else to endure, we know how it ends. We're still living witnesses as they, say, regulated the issue of their nuclear waste. As much as they care about the question of the healthy environment of humanity is known throughout history, and it corresponds roughly to what they think about democracy, because they built their democracy on the greatest genocide, because one whole race, almost a billion people, destroyed and changed the entire demographic image of the planet. So much for them. Anthropogenic sources – a man with his bad habits so destabilises the atmosphere, the environment, his habitats and habitats of the living world, and threatens us with a sudden but very serious climate change over the next few years, because global warming, which will heat the atmosphere on average by 1.8 or 5.6 degrees Celsius, is estimated to result in catastrophic consequences. Very concerned and serious scientists claim that it's only a few years away from that. That means melting huge glaciers on the poles, that means a complete change in the entire living world, an ecosystem on the planet. What should also be thought about under these laws and what they've been thinking about, and regulated by the laws, all the countries in the environment are pollen dust. Pollen's dust until about twenty years ago was not such a serious natural pollutant, but because of the particular environmental impacts it has become a very serious problem. Pollen's dust has become one of the worrying pollutants, especially when considering the ambrosia plant, which in some ways experienced a certain mutation after NATO aggression. That's what all scientific research is all about. About 20% of our population has problems with allergies, of which 10% are permanently treated for the consequences of allergies. Stress is one of the causes of the fall of the human immune system, and allergy is an indicator of a weakened immune system. Pollen’s dust appears several times over the year, and people’s health problems are already beginning in the first phase of blooming. Ambrosia, which flourishes in August of the month and, although a year-old weed plant, has become the largest polluter of this species and is certainly the most dangerous, breeds with seeds that can survive for 40 years in the country and preserves its lushness. One ambrosia plant gives 100 million grains of pollen. Its pollen is specific because it is in the form of pellets that have hooks that attach to the mucous membrane and is very long in its action. All countries in the environment have passed special laws on the obligations to destroy ambrosia in their premises. So they've taken this problem so seriously. We could think about it in the framework of a national strategy for the preservation of the only environment we have. We have an obligation to actively, with the whole world, solve problems of every kind of threat or environmental pollution. This is something that requires immediate resolution. Not wanting to absorb all polluters, however, we must note that in 1999, NATO's aggression against Serbia has been fuelled by poor uranium, no matter how many of the destinations it has worked on, however, it has given rise to development and enlargement, among other things, ambrosia, whose pollen is allergogen. The groundwaters are also highly polluted. The use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides and other chemical resources in the production of various cultures has left lasting consequences on biodiversity. The control of chemical products used in the bilge which way in nature had to be far greater. Imports of various substances and their placing on the market are important to double-check and justify, because the consequences are always inconclusive and, most terrible, irreparable. Nature is like time – no cycle can go back or reverse anything can fix. Serbia has a very modest supply of drinking water. It's no attempt to be in the country or in the public, Mr. Minister... On the contrary, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, citizenship must be informed of everything that is important to its life, including survival, and this is one of the important information, which would also require a national strategy to preserve drinking water resources. NATO aggression has poisoned numerous karst sources, including poor uranium. That's also what we need to talk about. So NATO aggression poisoned our, so modest, supply of drinking water. This government must consider new and additional elements for the lawsuit against those who have permanently threatened us. The pollution of land that directly affects groundwater, and therefore also on drinking water bases, is much said in the professional public, and I am really interested in what programmes the government is planning to take on drinking water and the protection of drinking water resources. What system of measures did the government predict? The worst of all policies is the policy of solving problems by putting them under the rug. Such a solution to long paths has always proved fatal. Let's just remind ourselves that atrasine exists in the ground at a depth of 12 meters. An uncontrollably cutting forest could have a very dangerous effect on the living world. It also affected water and water streams, which led to a slide. Serbia must start to think about mass and planned shaming. It was not enough to meet Serbia's real needs for shaming in that "demadrasovic" public figure painting campaign that plant several dozen trees for media propaganda. There must be a planned, organised and implemented action on thousands of hectares, along and across, across Serbia. Isn't it inadmissible that only 6% of the territory is represented in Vojvodina's forest? Otherwise, there is an unusual practice in Vojvodina: some new tycoons, state land tenants, allowed their workers, in exchange for the wages they owe them, to cut wind protection belts like a warm tree. Such an act is not only a crime, it is certainly a crime of its own. With such crimes, that is, the ministry, and yours, Mr. Dulic, and the police department, must take it seriously. Do we have the right to commit a crime to a single planet on which we live or do we have to contribute to preserve it for those who need to stay behind us? The noise law, as an important stress factor, to which we are all sensitive and hypersensitive today because we have been too and too long exposed to it, was also meant to be in the process much earlier. Croatia, for example, has come to know the problem and has very pragmatically dealt with it legally. Other countries have, by law, protected their residents from this important polluter that disrupts human health and creates other environmental disorders. Given that, Mr. Minister, you were President of the Assembly at a time when environmental laws were put outside the procedure, I welcome that you have now gained a completely different view of this topic and this issue from the vision of the Minister. New Serbia has submitted a significant number of amendments and I thank you for the significant number of these amendments. This means that, as always, we have been cooperative and truly useful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important to adopt others who are truly quality-repairing these laws, although only the implementation of these laws will in practice show their true virtues or disadvantages and opportunities to be meaningful. The only thing we don't like is the possibility of setting up a variety of new budget users that provide re-employment of party personnel, of which neither the law nor the ecology have much benefit. It is effective and true that the largest employer must be finally an economy, a healthy economy, which will protect its citizens in every way, including the ecological, not the budget. We don't like it if the laws are passed just to carry out this part consistently, which refers to the introduction of various new services. Rationality must be there in the first place, and responsibility to everything about our lives. We are like a nation, thanks to many factors of irresponsible authority, brought into a position that our lives are all concerned. We ask that you prove your responsibility at least through a public condemnation of NATO aggression, which should not be abolized by other contaminants, but has done invaluable and the largest, lasting damage to the entire region. To tell you the truth, we're really surprised that the non-governmental sector is silent. Or maybe they're not an NGO, or maybe they're our government's non-governmental sector, but they're the government's sector of some other governments? They should look to similar organisations in Europe, which are otherwise seen so much as to see environmental protection movements react when it comes to the rights and threat of their citizens – really consciously and responsibly, handling that maximum and the principle that the polluter must pay. Finally, I would just like to tell you that we must always remember Chief Seattle, no matter how much time he gives us, who at the end of his speech, who has known us all, said, "The survival has begun," or how someone freely translates, "The struggle for survival has begun." It is the obligation of all of us to fight for survival and win. The government must take the greatest responsibility in this, but also citizens who must change their minds and their habits.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17052	The word has a minister, Mr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17053	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, thank you very much for a very comprehensive and positive debate. I wanted to get one piece of information that was interesting to me, because I also have a little parliamentary experience. This is the first debate in the last few years, and certainly the first debate since it was adopted, not this Rules of Procedure, but the one before, when the time was defined, and that all parliamentary groups had used their time, that all parliamentary groups had participated in the debate, and that, I am sure, there was no tone of debate that would deviate from what was a debate of civilized and democratically-oriented people. That's what I thank you for. And, again, I congratulate you on moving into the building. I am sure that at this point, viewers next to small screens, when they see this Parliament, certainly notice the differences with some scenes they have seen before, and that is, of course, because these laws are equally important to everyone, but I believe that because we have achieved one level of parliamentary culture, too. I repeat again, I hope that in the coming days, when dozens of days pass, and other MPs, who are not here today, will apply a recipe that applies their representative here today. I wanted to answer some questions that were asked again, which must be answered. These laws form specific institutions. Here, first of all, I mean two agencies. One is a chemical agency, the other is a budget fund. It is now the formation of budget funds that will remove funds that exist today in local self-government, where money collected on the basis of polluters' fees is paid. We are just introducing budget funds to remove positions where people today receive salaries based on money collected from contaminants. So the budget fund doesn't mean a new institution. The budget fund just means that there will be money in one budget position that will be reallocated according to the programmes to which the ministry will give consent, to be consistent with something that is this country's new environmental policy, which I have promoted here. As far as these agencies are concerned, I must say again, we have formed a chemical agency in such a way that today's people at the Ministry of Chemical Management will be transferred to that agency. That agency will be, above all, self-financed. All 16 people working on this job today go to that agency and, precisely because of the self-financed character of that agency, 16 people less will get paid out of the budget. So we saved money to the state, not to form a new institution where party personnel will be employed. There's one thing I need to tell you. It's very current to talk about saving, and we're all absolutely for saving. The environment ministry and spatial planning, this environmental segment, has the least convincing employees compared to the number of inhabitants of all countries in the European integration process. We are constantly trying to optimise and redistribute people to succeed in doing a huge job ahead of them and waiting for them. I've said that in the government, and I always say that, because I don't agree that because of the demagogue debates and because of the huge number of employees in the state administration, who have been employed years and decades ago, many of the jobs that are ahead of us, which primarily require the engagement of extremely professional people that we as professionals need in the state administration, are being compromised. We will try to send every new law, every new commitment we make to this law, every new commitment we make in the European integration process by hiring smart, professional and good people to do this job. I think it's essentially the process of restructureing the state administration, that we're reducing that huge number, of course, but we're reducing it primarily to the employment of new young and professional people. I'm sure you're aware of that. Believe me, these people who are in parliament today, and in one of the rooms of this Parliament sits a large number of people from the Ministry who came here today to read your amendments, to listen to your debates, to help adopt these laws, and, of course, to do everything to make these laws better, they are all here because they highly price this house, which prices parliamentary debate, which they have long waited for these laws to be passed and, of course, they care that this huge work, which was day and night, gets its final event, in a way to adopt the laws. To deny, the truth works, one of the information you've given that keeps repeating itself. It is true that during 2007 and 2008, several laws concerning the environment came into the assembly procedure: the law on ionising and non-ionising radiation, which prepared the ministries of science and the environment together, and two other laws - on waste management and packaging law and packaging waste. This ministry has prepared all other laws, I mean there are 16 laws here today in the procedure, and it has withdrawn some of these laws that were older because they were not in line with EU standards. So, the truth is, and because of these people who spent days and nights working, these laws that are before you are fully in line with EU legislation and are written under a system of roof, umbrella laws that can be changed by sublaws. After this legislative activity of Parliament, I hope that the environment will enter a new phase of its development. Rest assured, we can't evolve without you. I'm glad that some conclusions have come out of this debate that I think are common. One conclusion is that, for example, we have all come together to the conclusion that in the future in the waste management system, we use insineration and co-insineration will not produce difficult effects on the environment. We've talked about this a lot. We have come to the common conclusion that dioxins and furans as carcinogenic substances are not created during high-temperature procedures. It's a scientific fact, and I'm glad that unlike Friday, we've all admitted it today. I am glad that we have managed to agree on one thing, and this is very important, to achieve a trend in the future – the bombing of our country has caused a very difficult burden on the environment. It has caused consequences likely to be measured, or summed up and summed up for decades. It has caused the health effects of our population. But let's not just charge the bombing with all the consequences that our citizens are suffering today, because when someone says the bombing caused ambrosia multiplication, it's just not true. We have to fight ambrosia and other allergens. We must fight other harmful consequences that threaten the health of our population today. We have to work on actions that will reduce the number of smokers in our country, which will reduce the number of people who consume alcohol in our country, which will clean our air. We have to fight waste together that throws itself into our environment uncontrollably. These are all things that cause human health consequences. Of course, we must never forget the consequences of the 1999 bombing. So, the only thing we can do together is change the consciousness of our population. In front of the Ministry, I invite you to participate in this together. I'm glad we proved one more thing - these topics cannot share us, these are topics that must bring us together. I'm sure whoever's in power tomorrow and whoever wins the election, whoever's in the Ministry tomorrow, whether it's you or any other party, you'll be making your policy thanks to our laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-06-0.u17054	I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Proposal for a Law on Air Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Noise in the Environment, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF ROTERDAMS CONVENTION ON THE PROCEDURE OF DUTY OF A CONSOLIDATION ON THE PRIOR ASSESSMENTS ON THE PREVIOUS ASSESSMENTS ON CERTIFICATE ASSESSMENTS AND PESTICIDES IN THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE, WITH THE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS (Common Single Search from 16-17 and 28-43) I would like to remind you that, according to Article 152 of Article 3, and in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 152(3) and Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft laws under points 15, 16 and 17 and paragraphs 28 to 43 of the agenda. That's what we do today's work. Tomorrow's working day, 7 April, starts at 10.00 hours and the first part of the session will take place on the basis of Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by asking for an explanation of the MPs, after which we will move to work on the agenda, and on the open agenda of the application for a word, the application for discussion by these points of the agenda will be from 10.00 to the moment the session ends. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Just before the start of the work, I give a brief notice of sound signalling that is now in operation in the building of the National Assembly. The bell that is heard in the halls, halls and upstairs is a bell for the call of the messengers of the people and for the messengers to come to the hall. The bell in the O.R. is, of course, an invitation to break down the marble and conversation, so as not to disturb the MPs who expose themselves. Also, the sound signal we'll hear after the quorum is a sign that there is a working quorum of 84 MPs. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please check that your identification cards are confirmed on the screen after you have inserted them. Here you go. (National MP Miroslav Markicevic from the post: We do not see the number of MPs present on the monitor. ) People’s MPs are interested in where everyone who sits in the hall can see how the quorum is determined and registered by the MPs. It'll be on big screens. You don't have it right now. I can tell you how much the card is right now, so there are 82 cards in the MPs' units right now. Now there's between 84 (heard bell), and this is a sign that there's a working quorum. There are currently 86 MPs. People's MPs are rightly untrustworthy not to see on the screen. I hope, with praise for the effort of the team that is working for us technical support, that they have managed to do the maintenance and good functioning of the electronic system and images for all MPs on screens will be – a sketch of the hall and marked places, as MPs insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find there are 91 MPs at the moment, which means there's a quorum needed to work. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I would like to remind the Members of Parliament, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before we move on to a further debate, we are working on the basis of Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which enables the request for information and explanations, and as defined in Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask Members of Parliament, presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups who wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure, to apply for a word. I am informing the National Assembly that the mandated representative of the DSS Group of MPs, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, is on this topic, MP Zoran Shami. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras.
