ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18823	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 100 MPs, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The electronic system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, and I find that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Sedlar-Kenig, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Dr Nikola Krpić and Prof. Dr. Slavica Đukić-Dejanović. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for the sittings, in addition to the representatives of the proposings, to attend Dejan Jovanovic, Nebojsa Đirić and Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic and Dejan Radulovic, advisers at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and Branka Radovic, adviser to the Privatisation Agency. Also, the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for part of the session, in which we will conduct a search in particulars, and for 22, 23, 24 and 25 agenda points, attend: Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister for the National Investment Plan, Edi Majstorović, Head of the Office of the National Investment Plan, Radmila Petkovic and Natasa Sokolović of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, Goran Petkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade and Services, Ana Blažević and Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Trade and Services, and for the purpose of the search in particulars according to points 26 and 27 of the agenda, Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Tatjana Prijic, Head of the Department of Economy and Regional Development. We move to the 20th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Economic Chambers (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together by Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac Arpad Fremond, Miletic Mihajlović, Zoran Kasalović, Jasmina Milošević, Milan J. Nikolic, Milisav Petronjević, Dejan Radenović, Vladan Batić, Bozidar Delić, Veroljub Arsić, Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babić, Nenad Popović, together Milan Lapčev Pejčić and Aleksandar Pejčić, Vladan Jeremić, Dragan Zhivić, Marina Toman, Milan Škrbić, Dragan Škrbić, Dušanka Pljević, Bojan Mladen, Dejan Mirović, Lidijanjan Mirić, Milović, Marijavić. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. We've received the government's reasoning on certain amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the debate in particular under the first amendment to Article 1, I would like to remind you of the time available to the parliamentary groups, as well as the authorised representatives, for the agenda points which are the subject of the debate and to ask the service to inform Minister Verica Kalanovic that he can come to the hall. Therefore, the ZES Parliamentary Group has a total time for the authorised representative and time available to the MP, the SRS Parliamentary Group has six minutes at its disposal from the time of the Parliamentary Group and the time available to the authorised representative, the G17 Group plus has the total time as the Parliamentary Group, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group has 13 minutes from the time available to the Parliamentary Group and the total time for the authorised representative, the MP Group Forward, Serbia has nine minutes at its disposal for the authorised representative and no time at the disposal of the Parliamentary Group, the SPS-JS Group has the total time, as well as LDP, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has eight minutes at the time of the MP and the total time for the authorised representative, a group of minorities has the total time available, as well as the United Pensioners of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković – MEP Vlajko Senic – MP Mladen Grujic – Parliament Group of New Serbia, MP Milan Nikolic – MP group of SPS-JS, MP Vlajko Senic – MP group G17 plus, MP Marina Ragus – Parliament group of SRS, MP Radojko Obradović – Parliament group of DSS and National MP Tomislav Nikolic – Parliamentary group of Forwards, Serbia. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal for the addition of a new Article 1A. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond have jointly tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after Article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18824	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you, for this amendment, I will tell everything about our three amendments, so with your permission I would use the time that belongs to the parliamentary group and the time that belongs to the authorised representative. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman, who initially said that the government's opinion on several amendments has really arrived. SVM lawmakers sold three amendments with the date of March 26th of the current year. We haven't got the government's opinion yet. We hope this means that our amendment has been accepted and we expect an answer from the minister. We're sorry Mr. Dinkic isn't attending this session. I'd like to explain, since, unfortunately, sometimes we get the impression that government representatives don't read those amendments. As you can see, the amendment we're currently discussing is very long and you'll allow me to convince the argument, because somehow I have the impression that no one has responded to it. There are several real, solid, strong arguments here, which are common sense, and of course many of them economically. So, the bottom line of our amendment is that the chambers of commerce in the Ada, Kanjiz and Senta are attached to Subotics, not the Kickindi, such as, unfortunately, the current situation. As we know, the previous law on chambers of commerce, which was passed in 2001, has, on our great regrets and completely contrary to the requirements and common sense, included the economy in the area of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta municipalities in the newly established Regional Chamber in Kikinda, which, of course, we do not agree and are looking for this correction. Previously, the chambers of commerce from these municipalities, Ada, Kanjiž and Senta, until the adoption of that law in 2001, with the municipalities of Subotica, Bačka Topola and Mali Ijoš consisted of a truly one region and the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Subotica covered a unique economic area. These are the reasons why we do so, and we hope that by accepting this amendment it will also be in the future. I mentioned several arguments, a sound, logical, unique economic development in this area, that is to say, the equally developed infrastructure in this region, as well as the common organisation of external and internal transport. If the situation remains like this, as it is, I must stress that SVM MPs will not vote in this form for this bill unless these changes occur. We heard a very active debate and the disfavor of many economic operators, even the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr Milos Bulgarin, held a meeting with the president of our parliamentary group and stressed that there are many discriminatory solutions. However, despite our support for this ruling majority, if there is an acceptance of our amendment, unfortunately, we still don't know what the situation is, we hope that non-response to this amendment means that it is accepted, then we will support, otherwise, we cannot support this text. If the proposed text remained, then, unfortunately, they would be interrupted, not just for years, but for many decades, built economic relations in these regions and the construction of links between these municipalities and certain economic units in the areas of purchasing relations, the production of raw materials, the processing and development of production and transport capacities. As I mentioned in the introduction and the infrastructure in this region is equally built. In this detailed explanation, we stressed the great importance, first of all, from the point of view of agriculture, for example, of Tis and Palić, which is 23 kilometers longer, because as we can see the current situation with this drought is very negative for agricultural producers, therefore, this channel provides irrigation of 20,000 hectares of territory in the areas of the municipality of Kanjiz and the town of Subotica. The construction of this channel is also planned, which in the next phase would provide irrigation of 20,000 hectares in the area of the municipalities of Bačka Topol, Mali Ijoš, as well as in part the municipality of Sent, and we consider it to be one of the strong arguments for accepting this amendment and this very important irrigation system. The next argument we cited in the explanation is the development of the role of logistics centres. Since we mentioned that in neighbouring Hungary there is a logistics centre in Segedin, we find it logical to force the creation of a logistics centre in Subotica. For this there are not only economic, but all other subjective reasons, such as larger institutions in the city of Subotics, colleges and technical conditions. It is also very important for the creation of a logistics centre would be a strong argument, i.e. a facilitating environment, and a free zone in Subotica, then, a decades-long functioning of a public warehouse with a customs zone and a developed territorial sector. We believe that this would attract the necessary goods and cash flows to the centre of this region, i.e. in northern Buck. I'd like to ask the Minister to listen to me, if at all possible. Unfortunately, sometimes an illusion is created, and the Hungarian coalition MPs, or SVM, are being attacked, that this is how we want to create so-called. Hungarian region. This isn't like that. We just think that this would be common sense and reality for the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta to be attached to Subotics, not the Kickindi. This is evidence and almost exactly the same amendment of the SPS Parliament Club - Unique Serbia, so I think we will all agree that they are not working to create this Hungarian region, as we are, regardless of what many think and attack us without reason. I'll continue to explain, I hope someone's listening to me. As I said, we believe that for Vojvodina, especially for the north of Backa, one of the most significant industries in agriculture and that the adoption of this amendment would bring together the most significant economic branch in the agricultural food industry. According to the data we possess, according to statistics, there is a very firm, strong connection of the entire reprocelle in terms of various branches of agriculture. This is where we mentioned, for example. Terrestrial pigs, i.e. that there is a strong link between these municipalities, as regards the import components of livestock and with regard to the achievement of significant exports of meat reprocellin. We mentioned concrete and monetary data. Next thing you know, what we're talking about and what I want to point out here is that the MPs would hear, and Mrs. Minister, and the public, is, let's say, the sugar industry. Here, as I mentioned, the traffic infrastructure was built precisely by adapting to the production of sugar beets and by investing in the irrigation system throughout this area that we are talking about plays a significant role in the production of this industrial culture, therefore, sugar tails. In addition to the pigs, sugar production, it is very important and famous, as regards Horgos, and the production of paprika and vegetables for the needs of existing capacities in Horgos. We believe that the only possible solution is the unique treatment of this reprocellin in the entire region of Northern Bacon, and the illogical separation of the Kikind. I apologize for stressing several times, but logically and clearly, it would be natural for it to be a unique development of the region of the Saturday Chamber of Commerce. There are similar links between these municipalities, therefore, Ade, Kanjiže and Sente with Subotic and as regards production, processing of cereals, next to vegetables I would like to mention the fruits and vineyards of the entire Northern Bačka, which is very well known for it. Unfortunately, right now these municipalities, their surroundings and their respective villages are all facing very similar current problems of protection and complex processing in this type of production, and we believe that due to the growing competition that comes to us by joining the EU, this area is addressed to close co-operation in the area of development, and are linked to similar problems. It is logical that they should all perform together on the foreign market. In addition to all these sound, economic, economic and agricultural arguments, even the new Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors implies that, against whom we have fought and emphasized to all the forces why it is bad, and which the parliamentary majority voted without us, the Municipality of Ada, Bačka Topol, Kanjiža, Mali Ijoš, Senta and the town of Subotica since 1 January, the following year, 2010 will continue to form the area of the Economic Court in Subotica, i.e., the General Court in Subotica, so that we consider and expect, or require, that the amendment of the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians be accepted, because otherwise we amend and supplement the Law on Chambers in this form, without accepting that amendment, we cannot be supported. As long as I'm using the time that belongs and the representative of the Parliament Group, I'd just like to mention the other two amendments that are technical. Expecting that this first and most significant amendment will be accepted, therefore, that the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiž and Senta will be attached to the Chamber of Commerce of Subotica, and not to the Kickindi, we only stress these amendments that we believe it is necessary to set a deadline within which regional chambers whose area will be amended, hopefully, by these new amendments and additions to the Law, to bring their organisation and acts in line with the provisions of this law. I would not like to repeat myself, I am very sorry that this weather may be awkward and that even MPs have no patience to hear the arguments, and I must stress that I do not understand how from the 26th of March of the current year, until today, May 4th, the government has failed to give us an opinion. In fact, I find the debate in particular pointless and I am very grateful that you have arrived at least now, and I just wanted to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it makes no sense to discuss when there are no government representatives. The Minister has arrived, but when we don't even have the government's opinion, I expect you to answer us now whether our amendment is being accepted and therefore depends on whether we support this law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18825	At your disposal, as an authorised representative, you have 11 minutes left. The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18826	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the answer to the question asked by the Parliamentary Group of the Duke of Hungarians about the amendment you spoke of, whose text I did not see, there are two possibilities. The first option is that it is identical with the text of the amendments that you have submitted and which you withdrew on 26 March 2009 and which is being led in a group of withdrawn amendments, and then a new amendment has been submitted to the same members, so I can only assume that it is the same text. Your request and your amendment gives full confirmation that optionalness or volunteering is the right way to overcome the problems of certain economic operators. The obligation for economic operators to pay mandatory membership fees and to belong to that regional chamber defined by the Law on Territorial Organization is fully eliminated by the new draft law. If we consistently respect the proposed text of amendments and additions to the Chamber of Commerce Act, this is also fully contained in the proposal for your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18827	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18828	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Group has submitted a series of amendments wishing that the existing good solutions presented so far in practice try to implement this new legislative proposal as well as some additional proposals, if possible, to improve this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. The amendment in Article 2 is almost identical with the proposal of the Manjin Parliament Club, which explained my colleague Elvira and he essentially has the idea to try to re-implement the legal solution that was until 2001, in the sense that the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta were re-enacted to the natural link with Subotica, because such a provision occurred after 2001, past the shown interest of businessmen from these municipalities and they were then joined to the chambers in Kikinda. Since they are bound, therefore, both territorially and also exercise their rights before the court in Subotica, we believe that this would be a logical trail of the legal solution, besides, decades of experience in this regard also go in that direction. With this legal solution, many business routes and business co-operation in this region are practically interrupted. For this reason, we consider this amendment a good one and we propose that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18829	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan J. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18830	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we presented in principle the views of the SPS-JS Group on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the laws on chambers of commerce. The essence of the amendment that I submitted in front of the Parliamentary Group is that the number of economic operators of 50, so as not to interpret all the texts of the law, is increased to 100. Why would I suggest that? This increase can be in one part of the regional and by action. If a chamber is established in which 100 legal entities or operators are primarily active, then it is possible that, in the context of, say, the wood industry or in the textile industry or others, almost all producers are in one such association or chamber, because they are thus stronger than 50 economic operators. They can, above all, influence executive and legislative power, create a business policy of certain industries and are more economically over a number of entities that pay membership fees so that they can perform uniquely towards the foreign market, organise fairs, lobby for these markets, organise various consultations, etc. Personally, I think that this solution would be better than 50 economic operators, especially in the context of the work that certain economic operators are dealing with. The danger, which has been highlighted almost in all the debates... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... that individuals in 50 business entities carry, I would say, a certain privilege, specifically, were said to be one tycoon, so that 50 will lead, this time that risk decreases. I'm asking you to reconsider one such amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18831	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the President-in-Office, the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SPS-JS Group was a follow-up to the story my colleague Milan M. Nikolic told. According to Milan M. Nikolic's proposal in Article 2, it is envisaged to increase the number of economic operators, from 50 to 100, who can establish a Chamber of Commerce, of course, by work, this amendment speaks of mandatory membership by territorial principle. We believe that, that is, we have given you a lot of arguments, which is why a chamber with mandatory membership should remain, and for these reasons, of course, I would not take up much of your time, we believe, that the chamber system should be based on a single territorial principle, which is in accordance with the Law on Territorial Organization, the Law on Local Self-Government, and in our terms of regional chambers of commerce, the city's chambers of commerce, are closer to the economic operators in that territory where the work is carried out. On the other hand, the chamber at national level is the strongest representative of the economy and of course the interests of the economy both towards the state and towards all countries in Europe and the world. I would simply say, it is an integral part of this amendment submitted by Mr Milan M. Nikolic. To repeat, we advocate – that a Chamber of Commerce with 100 business entities can be established voluntarily and remains a unique territorial principle of the organisation of chambers. Allow me quite at the end (deprive me of the time of the parliamentary group that I have) to be honest, it's hard for the amendments, how can I say, to give some interventions in terms of repairing the law, and not to get caught in the essence, not to go into the system, for the simple reason that even the amendments to the Chamber of Commerce Act don't change some solutions, but they change the complete chamber system. In the end, I ask whether this opinion was received on April 10th, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given what I just heard, that there was no opinion, or I received an opinion on April 9th of this year from the government, concerns 33 amendments. I want to warn the public and call on our government, my government, to be more serious about the answers given to the amendments. The government rejected the amendment to Article 1, and said: "The amendment is not accepted because the reasons for not seeing the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment. "It may have been possible to answer for Article 1, but it is not acceptable to repeat the sentence 33 times: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment 1). "It is also the case with my amendment – it is not accepted for reasons of not accepting the amendment 1). And so on. I urge the government, my government, to treat this more seriously and more responsibly. These are serious issues, it's about Serbia's chamber system. Of course, all possible arguments and reasons to come up with the best solution should be crossed, for it is a big part. I think that it should be possible for MPs to have the opportunity to face their views and opinions directly in order to come up with the best solution, again in the interest of supporting the very government. Not to be long, I'll finish, I repeat again, we've proposed these two, I say, key amendments. One refers to voluntary membership – 100 business entities by work and the other, which refers to mandatory membership by territorial principle. We believe that this can be a transitional solution, given that it will only apply in 2013, and there are a lot of issues that need to be discussed in this area, starting with the assets, and further that time should be used to get to the best solution, because the chambers of commerce and the ones they can't survive. We know that, we're aware of that, and we think there should be a change anyway, but not like this and in a way like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18833	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic. The time available for the SPS Parliamentary Group is 15 minutes. I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18834	Mr President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the amendment to Article 5, what is apparent is that it is a truly quality amendment, but I also have an opinion on amendments to Article 2, as well as on Article 8, and among other things, Article 14. At the very beginning, I am taking the opportunity to appeal to the representatives of the Ministry to take another look at the essential content of the amendments that are the ambassadors of the SPS, because the argument given by the Government, at this point, is really unacceptable for us. Let's take advantage of this debate in particular, that is, the debate on amendments, so let's try to clarify some of the essential things when it comes to the amendments that I've already mentioned. First of all, I use the time of the Parliament's group to make it very clear and precise again – that it is absolutely not a questionable reason set out in the context of the proposed legislative solution, therefore, the objective that is to be achieved is: a positive effect on increasing the level of economic activity, as well as improving conditions for the existence of healthy competition on the Serbian market, especially in relation to countries in the environment. For the SPS Parliamentary Club, this objective, i.e. the reasons set out, is absolutely acceptable. It is also true that the Chamber, as it is today organized, must suffer certain changes, but in recent days we are talking about fundamental amendments to the Law, therefore, about changing the structure and organisation of the chamber in the Republic of Serbia through amendments and additions to the Law, which will only be foreseen since 2013, which is somewhat illogical. Perhaps you should consider in this direction that these fundamental changes are not going through changes and additions, but through a new law in general that would have been adopted, produced and implemented since 2013, and by then we would certainly have plenty of time for a constructive public debate, one open, direct dialogue between the legislator and the businessmen, or chambers of commerce. So we'd have plenty of time to hear the voice of the economy, to look at each other, to respect the suggestions and suggestions of the businessmen. During the debate in principle, we raised several essential questions that are being raised and asked. The legislator, I must repeat once again, provides for the establishment of other chambers with at least 50 members, as well as the abolition of the obligation to pay the membership fee. The question arises whether the decommissioning of the single chamber system would eliminate the institutional legitimacy of chambers to represent and represent the interests of all economic operators, regardless of the form of organisation, activity, property form and seats in Serbia. Is this one way to weaken the power of the Serbian economy? Who is actually going to be a representative and the question of the property of the chamber? Our goal, once again, is to repeat in the debate in particular, that is, in the debate under the amendments, it is not to come to the situation of imposing the interests of the strong and the few over the weak and many, that after the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law we would not have a certain uncertainty on these very important issues, i.e. in order to improve the quality of the legislative proposal, the SPS MPs have submitted a number of very high-quality amendments. Once again, I would like to appeal to the representatives of the Ministry to consider the essential content of the amendments to Article 2, but also to Article 5, Article 8, and Article 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18835	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18836	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is somewhat not clear to all of us why the traditional system of chamber arrangements is changing, why it is necessary to reorganise in the way that the legislator predicted it. Maybe at some point the concentration gave way to me, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think we've heard any strong argument as to why the 150-year-old tradition is leaving and entering a completely new system solution. What is also unclear, if this should come into effect in 2013, why is it now being brought, since the entire opposition, as well as the good part and the ruling coalition, agrees that a new public debate should be launched and that the proposed concept should be replaced by 150 years? In order not to be misunderstood, of course the SRS is not satisfied with the functioning of the chambers of commerce, but is that enough reason to violate the tradition of so long and so old? Perhaps it was necessary to approach from a completely different perspective, to make some other solutions, and to leave the existing chamber association system. On the other hand, do you think, Mrs Kalanovic, that the new chamber arrangement system will make an improvement in terms of representing the economy and solving certain economic problems that the Chamber is dealing with? That's something we could possibly hear during today's debate in detail. The SRS is extremely interested in what were the concrete underlyings when this system solution was considered, what motivated the legislator to completely reorganise the chamber system? There have been several speculations in the public, we can vary the reasons and the fact that, since we have different examples, there may be abuse of certain functions, abuse of certain property rights because the chamber system in Serbia has huge assets. I think the problem comes first because we haven't had enough of the process of public debate, not in public, and the address of the parliamentary clubs has been attended by materials that are even in front of the authorities, or the ruling majority, quite the opposite. We have the opinion of the Ministry of Trade which is the opposite, which requires that sufficient consideration be given and another round of public debates on the subject of proposed amendments and additions to the law. What is unclear to us is why he is in a hurry when there are so many social criticisms and certain relevant factors affecting and participating Serbia's economic life, especially within the framework of the organisation of chambers of business today and this year when the economy has terribly big problems. Perhaps it would be good to think, I suppose, that the proposer would not be guided by thinking about withdrawing this bill from the procedure, but perhaps it would be a positive shift in the sense that the government is considering what is in the best interests of the chamber, so that the adoption of such a law should be extended or that this bill should be complemented, taking into account all this which is being debated, unfortunately, most often outside of Parliament and most often outside the institutions that should be signatories of good dialogue. Perhaps you will agree, Mrs Kalanovic, but there is an impression that the most important issues, such as the chamber arrangement of Serbia's economy, are missing dialogue. Then on the sidelines of society, we have an opening of controversy that can be very destructive, even for those positive shifts that can be recognized somewhere when it comes to the bill promoter. But again, I don't see a haste, that this dialogue is being skipped, because in 2013, when this law should come into force, and perhaps by dialogue it would come to the most acceptable or broad consensus that the chamber system in Serbia should work, for the benefit of the economy and for all those who rely on the economy, which is all of us. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18837	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18838	There will be no withdrawal of the law, I think a lot of arguments were given when we discussed, interpreting the law as a whole, but one of your questions gave me a reason to come forward with an additional explanation. You asked the question – what is in the best interest of the chamber? Proposing this law, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development was guided by the interests of economic operators, not chambers, but businesses. The interest of economic operators, especially in these difficult moments of the economic crisis, was that, with the money allocated to chambers, the package of services provided by chambers must be increased through a proactive role for economic operators. Voluntaryness in membership and jurisdiction that everyone decides who wants to represent him and with which package of services is the basis of this law. You said that at this point, a large number of those who oppose this law in the area of economy appear. I'm very honest with you that I haven't heard a single economic operator say that he was against this law. This law is against the chamber, information is that the chambers do not respond to volunteering and our question is – why? We believe that chambers have enough capacity to provide their services to economic operators, but why at this point do not go from those services that they provide costing what economic operators single out. So the law wants to establish a clear balance between what is paid and what is given for those feathers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18839	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18840	The esteemed chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected minister and representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia held its views in principle and expressed a certain reserve under the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers. In this period of principle debate to this day, we have not received new arguments, the reason is the explanation of our views and opinions, and for this reason, we have not changed our attitude. We expected the Resort Ministry to make an explanation for numerous suggestions, suggestions and remarks. We were expecting contact. Personally, I don't think that communication between Parliament and the government is good this way. We have had contact with other ministries on other laws and measures, I must say, most of all with those ministers who used to sit in this House. I think it would be good if other ministers also looked up to them. Why is there no communication, that in an interspace that would be almost a month, we sit down and talk, if we're wrong, we're given explanations why we're wrong. Let's refresh these arguments and say, "Let's accept the explanations and change our attitude." I will especially highlight Mr. Micunovic's commitment, which was very argumentably involved here in the debate, in front of the largest parliamentary group, so it deserves attention, deserves a conversation. We also had a few conversations with economic operators and, I'm worried about what the distinguished minister said -- no laws, no talks with the subjects. We've had conversations with economic operators, and if necessary, we'll give it to you. They don't support this law. 'Cause you're doing something fast. Why four years of interspace until it's applied?- I'm sorry. But once again, I think it would be good if we had explained ourselves. For this reason, the MP Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia can support such a project. I would ask you and support all those pledges, in particular the amendments of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Unity of Serbia, if I cannot adopt myself, if there are arguments, then I suggest and I think it would be most appropriate for the law to withdraw and return to Parliament again, after all the discussions that follow with both economic operators and with chambers and with the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18841	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18842	Just to eventually round up the logical continent, and as for all those who have spoken to us and addressed certain opinions to the address of MPs' clubs, while I suppose this bill was created, so we have one information signed by Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, directed to Mr Dinkic, regarding the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers and I will literally read that information, and I will use the time of the authorised representative, and if I need a little, please, just use the time foreseen for... Okay. Thank you. Among other things, I will try to be quick because of the time limit, Mr Milosavljevic says: – According to the provisions of the article. 2, 5 and 7, as well as in the sense of Art. 8, 10 and 11. The draft (then) is essentially a single legislative intervention, which is a change in the existing legal regime of the Single Chamber System, which is in force in accordance with the applicable regulations. – Therefore, it is a proposal for a legal solution that completely changes the existing model of the chamber system, given that the plurality of chambers, i.e. chamber organisations, is foreseen by the abolition of mandatory membership of business entities in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, or other chambers, according to the seat or activity of the entity. – The concept of a single chamber system is defined already in Article 1 of the applicable law on chambers of commerce, which regulates the concept of chambers of commerce, as interesting, independent, business-professional organisations which form part of the unique integration of business entities (although the draft does not contain changes to the quoted provision) and provides for significant changes in the possibility of establishing parallel and unrelated chamber systems. Mr Milosavljevic points to a 150-year-old tradition of parallel systems, such as the chamber system has Germany, France and Italy. It considers that the basic objective of the draft law – the change of the organisation model – is non-discriminatory and that it is not in line with the interests of economic operators. He also deals with all these arguments that Mr. Colakovic and his previous colleagues have made here and, among other things, with all these remarks that this ministry and Mr. Milosavljevic made, they suggest that this draft law be withdrawn from the procedure and that everything that, then the Draft and now the proposal, in fact, foresees, and concerning the systemic changes of the chamber system. That, Mrs Kalanovic, is another argument that we have tried to present to you as a fact that it might not be a bad idea to think about it again, and that, as we have heard from this memo, Mr Dinkic is not in the interest of economic operators, this proposed system and the reform of the chamber system. We would like to know which economic operators want to change the chamber system, and we will give you information that is against it, and then perhaps, the situation would be clearer, and yet another argument more to consider, possibly, this bill once again, make another public debate, because we still have enough time, in 2013, when all this should take effect, and let us see, to make one perhaps stronger consensus on the subject of systemic change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18843	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18844	I will say that there is a signed request from a number of economic operators sent to the Constitutional Court, and a copy was delivered to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and to the Assembly – it is addressed to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the provision of mandatory membership in the organisation of chambers of commerce. In the end, I just want to say one more thing, all the parliamentary groups that had huge objections to this bill came from one fact, that at the same time with the application of this law, a large number of new chambers of commerce will appear. If, after the adoption of this law, such a situation occurs, which is of course hypothetical, we will be able to talk about it when we see the results, it just gives confirmation that the existing chamber system on mandatory membership in the previous period did not meet the needs and requirements of economic operators who supported their money employees in chambers of commerce, who brought politics and directed their work. If the situation is reversed, if the economic operators are thanks to tradition, thanks to the fact that the chambers of commerce in the previous period worked on their satisfaction, there will be no establishment of new chambers of commerce. They will only volunteer to extend to what they had during the previous period through obligation, which is, membership in these chambers of commerce. We don't see any serious reason that at this point, at a time when the economy has increased demands, we don't give them an alternative, we don't tell them – there's a possibility that you can continue membership, but there's a possibility that you can also create new organizations that represent you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18845	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 5 was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18846	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS, has submitted an amendment to Article 5, which replaces the words "may be" in Articles 9-1 and 3 of the word "are", which is essentially an opportunity to retain the proposed solution to voluntary membership in Serbia's chambers of commerce and the commercial chambers of the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and KIM, but thus provides mandatory membership in regional chambers and the Chamber of the City of Belgrade. In fact, we respect the full facts that speak about difficulties and the insufficiently efficient functioning of chambers and the situation that members are, therefore, exclusively aware of the membership costs and do not feel sufficient benefits and benefits from membership. But we believe that this institutional solution is not the reason for such a way of functioning of the chambers of commerce and that the solution should be sought in some other ways to improve the work of the chambers of commerce. First of all, we think that this is a good legal solution that has been confirmed and in practice with good results in many countries, and the most developed, well, here is an example for us also of the very close and neighbouring state of Austria that can set us up with a lot of examples. In this way, it would indeed be ensured that the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of the City of Belgrade become a significant partner in all relevant factors in this area, to be able to work in a professional and competent way to develop an economy in the Republic of Serbia to make the best use of good experience. We believe that this will significantly improve this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18847	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Jasmina Milosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament Marina Ragush submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Miletic Mihajlović, Zoran Babic and Bojan Mladenovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, do the proposing representatives want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FEATURE OF THE FUND FOR OBJECTIVES AND FINANCES OF POLANDS (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milos Škrbić, Dragan Zivkov and Milorad Buh. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, do the proposing representatives want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to work on the agenda on the proposal for a law on foreign trade, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Standardisation, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consensus, which was submitted by the Government and the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, which was submitted by the Government. Since we had the vote and agreement of the Assembly on a united debate, the united time also applies to these four laws that will be the subject of a specific investigation. I hope the presidents of the parliamentary groups know what time they have at their disposal. The representatives of the MPs' groups are: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic for the PUPS Parliamentary Group, MP Milutin Jelic, MP for the NS Parliament Group, MP Zoran Kasalovic for the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, MP Mico Rogovic for the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia, MP Arsen Đuric for the DSS Parliament Group, MP Marina Ragus for the SRS parliamentary group and MP Zoran Ostojic for the LDP parliamentary group. We move to the 22nd point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON SPOLJNOTRGOVINS BUSINESS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Marina Toman, Milan Škrbić, Veroljub Arsić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milan Avramović, Boris Alekić, Milorad Buha, Dragan Ševanovic, Dragan Aćimović, Milan Veseinović, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Jadranko Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Lidija Vukić, Jovan Damjanović, Zoran Krasić, Momčilo Duvnjak, Bozidar Delić, Branimir Živić, Branimir Živić, Srboljubović Živović, Vrica Radjerica Rade, Radiša Žutić, Nikola Žutić, Vladimir Jerjemić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jožić, Dragić, Dragan Živić, Dragan Živić, Dragan Živić, Živić and Dragan Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Drag. You have submitted a report by the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Legislative Committee has rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 41. The bill was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and the amendment is submitted in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure will not be a matter of discussion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18848	As soon as possible, on behalf of counterpart Veroljub Arsic, who is not here, I will explain this amendment. Article 1 of the Law stipulates that it regulates external trade, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, EU regulations, as well as the competence of the Foreign Investment Agency and the promotion of exports. The amendment seeks to delete the part that defines the existence and jurisdiction of the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. It is simply too much of a law to establish one of the 105 agencies that did not justify spending on budget funds, which are huge, whose activity has mostly been reduced to tours of foreign fairs, and for this huge funds have been spent. At a time when you are implementing regulatory reform, when you are preparing to verify the justifications of the existence of agencies that carry out the tasks of the ministries, which are not responsible or are indirectly responsible, which means almost certainly not, when you receive huge salaries at the expense of a budget that cannot bear the incomes of such one’s pay, and when you hear such wages revolt and those whose representatives are directors of those agencies, I think it is really wrong to define the name of an organisation that will deal with export promotion, because tomorrow when it is due to be abolished, and I think that it will be as much as tomorrow, then you will defend that we have to do so by amending the law, and that takes time, it takes 126 votes and everything else that goes. So you need to delete the agency as an organization that will deal with this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18849	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment, Vice-President Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, mid-national MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment tabled by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Mr. Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18850	It is already in the definition of Article 2, where the concepts which will be applied in law are marked, in fact, the essence of the position of this authority in external trade. Foreign trade is defined as the most general, such as domestic and foreign traffic, not even listed goods and services, which is one of the usual and necessary exact terms. Therefore, it is defined what is a direct investment, where mainly the purchase of shares or shares in the capital of a company, recapitalisation and other forms of investment and investment works are treated. The amendment requires Article 2 to be specified, in a way that, under the exercise of economic activity abroad, in the sense of this law, means the performance of production, trade, service, scientific research and development activities, banking and other financial and insurance and reinsurance operations, in accordance with the rules of the country in which these activities are carried out. Not that it is not excessive and not that it is a newspaper, this is a provision of the law on foreign trade, which at a time many are happy to remember, Ante Markovica, was the definition of the country's foreign trade business which had significant exports and whose foreign trade was at an enviable level. - Today, many think that between foreign trade and imports is a sign of equality. No, foreign trade doesn't just mean total liberalisation, the elimination of customs and the opening of this foreign market here. Foreign trade also involves exports: from manufacturing, commercial, service, scientific research, banking and other financial and insurance business, which means that we, as a state of Serbia, can deal with these activities not only in our own country but also abroad and that it is exports and transport of goods and services. And what does the government say to me? He says the amendment refuses, because, like, it's too precise and it doesn't allow any new jobs, which will appear, to be covered by my amendment intervention. Chuck says, "It is unacceptable for the law to apply to other countries' territories." I'd like to ask for some seriousness. If I quote in the amendment a provision in the 1991 Foreign Trade Act, which reads: "... and according to the regulations of the land in which these deeds are carried out. I think a minimum of attention would require that you do not give such a response if I wrote in advance a fence that Serbia will deal abroad in accordance with the country's rules where it has open representations, businesses, branches or whatever the law requires. My general objection to the law on foreign trade is that it is superficial and that the only justification is to comply with EU rules, GAT and so on. Which is not true! I would like to know why you ordered and paid for a solid study published in Official Messenger number 58 and called the Strategy for increasing exports of the Republic of Serbia for a period from 2008 to 2011, which has almost nothing to be resented, could still be completed and in which the objectives of a serious state in external trade are defined, from the objectives that are to be achieved, beyond the measures to achieve, to remove the double investment and fund promotion agencies, including all the efforts and resources available to one country to work on domestic industrial production, export-oriented, to subsidise and such activity, because the cancer wound, which this company and this economy has, is a deficit in paid balance and external trade deficit, can only be resolved by increasing exports. What's this strategy for, if you don't apply it the moment you write a law that relies on it. What's the cost, the work of probably respected and professional people, who, I suppose, invested, days, hours, years of research, if this is a dead letter on paper. You know, there are flowers that don't smell and that only serve for decoration. His purpose is decorative. Whether this strategy, which is valuable and useful, should also serve at a time when we need any useful advice and guidance on what to do in order to increase our exports, i.e. the gaps that exist in the budget and in our consumption to patch up in the only right way, which is by exporting and foreign inflow, by producing above all for export. The only question I have for you, why didn't you in any part stick to the export strategy which is the basis of the Foreign Trade Act?- I'm sorry. The principled distinction between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Forward MPs Club, Serbia is – that external trade implies two-way, not only imports but also exports and production for exports, rather than full liberalisation and elimination of customs duties. Because when one day, I hope very quickly, by changing power in a democratic way, someone else takes over to run these jobs, they're really going to find such holes that they won't be able to do this, or a much better strategy to level it out. In that sense, I think this law is very bad and that even such amendments can't be significantly improved, but this is the minimum I insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18851	You used a total of five minutes from the time of the Parliamentary Group, so you are now at your disposal for 20 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18852	Since I can't talk about the specific amendments, but I think it's very important because of the public, because we're trying to figure out why those who are owned to provide timely information on the state of our economy, and especially on the external trade deficit, are most often not present when it comes to the topic of the agenda. What the SRS is planning to do during some performing period, we have shown and presented certain indications during the debate in principle and detail. Indeed, we are going to banish those who are signatories of poor economic policy, poor prediction, poor projections, and therefore, who are signatories of the current situation in the economy, in the sense that someone has been countering the interests of the Serbian economy, we are going to prove it with concrete data that we have been presenting for almost a month now. What is a fact, which is a global economic crisis that no one could really predict, but this situation in a situation like this where we have both found Serbian economy and society, so all of us are, in fact, predicted to be a "vis major", a situation that should be tempered, for example, with a better economic position, i.e. with a better economy. The global economic crisis that has passed on to Serbia has shown that since 2000, indeed, no reform course has been launched that could properly withstand the effects of this crisis that occurred for the first time since 1929, and for which no one can now project what the situation will be like by the end of the year. Why this kind of introduction? Because we often get to the address of the parliamentary club the demands of all workers who apparently cannot protect or know the right formula of protecting their interests, which are victims of poor privatisations, as they call it by their own language, by robbing former social enterprises. We're going to look for an official state report, we're assuming there is, what about privatised companies, or workers in them, and how they think they're dealing with a terrible social problem that's going to come up at the end of this year, I guess maybe even earlier, where the privatisation funds are directed, and how have the privatisation funds been used?- I'm sorry. It's a commitment to our citizens, and especially to our electoral body, which counts the poorest part of the population, which seems to me to have a problem surviving one month. What is to be said to the public are some indicators of the movement at least when it comes to the external trade balance, what the media published, and yet it announced by the Republic Statistics Institute, the comparisons for the past year, the external trade deficit of Serbia was 8.2 billion euros, which is 15.2% more than in 2007. Exports in 2008 were 7.4 billion euros, which is 15.5% higher than in the previous year and imports were 15.6 billion euros, again 15.3% higher than in 2007. What has been an unfavourable feature of external trade in the past year, and frankly, now we do not have official data that should be a sign of this year's projection, is a fact of the high deficit, and it is a favourable fact that exports have grown slightly faster than imports, according to the Republic Statistics Office. It should be pointed out in particular that problems related to the global financial crisis are reflected first in Serbia's foreign trade exchange. We'd like to hear what time and days await us. Can you make a projection in this sense? The decrease in world orders has inevitably affected our exports, which since August last year recorded a fall from month to month, except for December when imports and exports are usually higher than previous months. This is an official statement from the Republic Bureau of Statistics. It should also be said that imports in the fourth quarter, compared to the previous quarter of 2008, had a 20% decline. Compared to the first six months of this year with the other six months, exports can be seen to have increased by 4% and imports by 2.2%. In doing so, there has been a drop in exports, the fall is most visible in the section of iron and steel 18.5%, the colored metals of 11.3%, which accounted for the bulk of our exports in the first half of the year. In the second half of the year, we have the highest drop in road vehicles of 19.3%. On the other hand, vegetables, fruits, cereals and products have an increase in exports in the second part of the year, recorded an increase of 51.8% and 59.8%, respectively, which compensates for the decline in exports of black and colored metallurgy products and ultimately conditioned that total exports in the second half of the year are higher than in the first half. As for imports, and the reason for its growth, in the second half of the year increased energy purchases, especially oil, by 13.9% more than in the first half of 2008. The ministry said in an official statement that the extent of the financial crisis will affect Serbia depends on how long it will take and what measures economic policies will take to minimise its effects. We were also able to discuss economic policy measures during the budget rebalancing debate. We have the budget required by the IMF, the economic policy measures that the IMF also demanded in the first place. We are not sure that these measures of economic policy will affect the increase in economic activity. Also, we are not sure that the economic policy measures will keep this level of employment of Serbian citizens, and we are not sure that they will be able to compensate for the problems that will arise during this year, which we see that no one can possibly predict with certainty what will happen to us especially in the period from May to October of the month. And on the other hand, we see the cry of the authorities, Mr. Ljajic, who apparently is referred to what the situation is with workers, especially from privatised businesses and those who remain out of work daily, to establish a crisis staff that should start a social dialogue, which we have been trying to initiate for a month, if not more, in terms of finding a better solution for people who are going to lose their income. What affects us every day, and it is, also one of the very important topics that the SRS anti-corruption team will deal with, is the Delta company, monopolization by this company, the conditions made for this company to, say, make up about 15% of gross domestic product. We see that Mr. Miskovic, or "Delta Holding", is in big trouble and expects help from the Serbian government. We would like to know, I suppose that Mrs Kalanovic will eventually give some answers, what will happen if Mr Miskovic, or Delta Holding, does not find a solution, given that he employs a huge number of people and also performs a monopoly on a particular part of the market, which also means a problem for suppliers, and for all those whom Mr Miskovic owes because of the crisis he has fallen into. Of course, we are interested and extends the context of this story. The fact is that the state owes about 68 billion dinars, which is 719m euros in economics. That is why many businesses in Serbia have a liquidity problem. We've had a chance to hear some hints about how these debts, popularly speaking, are beating themselves up. We don't understand how it's going to work, but from the 43 billion-dollar figures, the government owes more than 10 billion to the public enterprises that did the jobs of the National Investment Plan, the rest of those companies that did business, say, with the police, the military, the education, the health care and the state administration. We also have here a statement from Serbia's employers' Union spokesman, Mr Rajic, who said the state owes the most to construction companies, through public enterprises, and this debt is, as I said, 43 billion dinars, the particularly damaged companies most expected in the period of crisis, such as tolls. Only the Public Enterprise "Serbian Roads" owes them 35 billion dinars. The remaining eight billion are EPS debt, coal mine Resavica, Kolubara, as well as "Serbiagas" and "Telecoma". And what was a warning, but obviously something that the government has again disobeyed, is that to extend the deadlines for the collection is largely at the expense of states that owe more than 10 billion dinars to businesses over nine months to carry out operations under the National Investment Plan. That it is a matter of serious testimony that more than 58,000 businesses in Serbia have blocked accounts and that is the figure that varies, in the absence of official data, from 58 000 to over 60,000 blocked companies. So, the biggest debtors are "The Ways of Serbia", EPS, "Srbiagas", "Telecom", and the companies to which the state owes the most are "Planum", "Intermost", "Energoproject", "Minel Hydrobuilding", "FAP Trucks", "Interstil", "Nitral", "Energooil". What is outrageous, and it seems to me that Mrs Kalanovic will agree with it, is again that business logic and economic environment. How is it possible that the state owes or is late to charge? It's something that you can't explain to anyone, that you can't charge for the work you've done to realize the project, it's outrageous. How do we expect now, what projections are, say, for businessmen in some performing period, who in a very tactical way are trying to get out what they have earned, and they're not doing it, and they're afraid they won't get jobs, because they know how jobs are done? What are the projections for this year when we expect even greater effects of the crisis? What about the debts to the economy? It is a broader context of what is today's topic, but of course we also use your presence, I hope you won't mind, in order to get concrete answers, to all that we get, through a parliamentary club, which through the media, and here's a chance to finally get an official response from a representative of the government. So, in the foreign trade business, what does it expect us to do, in terms of this fall that has been established compared to previous years, what is the state going to do in this context? In the first place, how will the state regulate a terrible debt? We hear that the National Investment Plan is at the top of that list, that it actually owes our domestic companies that are now in big trouble. Suppose one company has employees, so let's multiply that times three times four. The state itself has created a terrible social and economic problem. I hope, Mrs Kalanovic, given that you have a manner of responding in real time, that we will get this information that interests all those who are following with great care this debate, because it concerns everyday existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18853	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18854	In Article 4, which defines restrictions on external trade, i.e. by setting up branches and representative offices, we intervened – the usual restriction that exists in all serious countries, so that a foreign person cannot open a representative office in the field of arms and military equipment. In an explanation given by the government, such a restriction defines some other laws. I really don't think that the extra head hurts and that, in principle, everything that isn't forbidden is allowed, should not be free space that would be used for a variety of similar jobs and that tomorrow when we don't need a headache, and I think that this article 4 supplement should definitely be adopted, that it is not only specific in this country, but that it is applied everywhere. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18855	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11th of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18856	Given that I cannot speak specifically about Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's amendment, I am using the opportunity, and precisely because it is an extremely high level of interest in the debate on this agenda, because it concerns what it is to survive daily and whether our economy will be able to withstand what is the burden of the global financial crisis. A while ago, I think it was two weeks ago, now I can't remember exactly, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was present during a united debate, hearing something that, on the one hand, cheered the SRS, because we have been talking about it for years, but I must admit, we expected to hear from Mr Dinkic then to tell us something about turning to certain markets and co-operation with certain markets. However, I must admit, that is why we increasingly have statements from Serbian officials that it is really a question when Serbia will become an EU member! And what fate will the EU experience over the period until the end of this year and for the next five years, since we see that one system, an economic logic, is completely destroyed, that the institutions created in Breton Woods de facto do not function? The system of neoliberalism has fallen and, in fact, we are all witnessing something that should put the world on a completely different economic postulate. Now we have the opportunity to see that the world has come into a wave of increased degrees of ethics, which was almost the inevitable logic in the situation of the collapse of the single market and this intervention of the state is more than a good indication of how the economy would look, for example, highly developed European countries, such as Germany, France, Great Britain, etc. We can't expect more help as a small country when they have big problems with each other. What Mr Dinkic said at the time – there it is, and it is time to turn to the market of the Russian Federation, Belarus, etc., we are glad that Mr Dinkic came to the SRS position. This is what we talk about all the time, going in the context of market compatibility, developed external trade co-operation between Serbia and the Russian Federation. Also, what will interest the citizens of Serbia, is the topic, I suppose, is that you will be present at the next item of the agenda here with us – who will benefit from the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the Union, who will really benefit from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement?- I'm sorry. Mr Djelic presented some data last week that speak of losses so far. I don't want to paraphrase now, because it's concrete data, unfortunately, I don't have a stenogram of that session right now. But Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic also said on December 6th last year that it should wait for a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, because, according to her, Serbia lost about 23 billion dinars, according to the National Bank of Serbia's course from that period, it is about 267m euros. We have statements from the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, which says that it should be well considered, concerning the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement and the SAA, given the current situation of the Serbian economy. What we can read between the lines, we think that the government is making a lot of mistakes that doesn't come out to citizens with concrete information, instead of spreading state optimism, which can be far from the real situation, so let's be all in trouble, is that it's realistic that there's a big concern that this budget rebalance will last for the next few months and we're getting closer to the new budget rebalancing. Also, we have statements by the members of the Economic Council of the Prime Minister of Serbia, specifically, Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, who says that the IMF's calculations really ignored everything, that this budget deficit that was created was a surprise, and that is why we have entered a nearly panic situation to deny certain budget positions of certain users, such as local self-government, freezing and wage cuts, etc. What exactly is a big problem here? We have a problem with understanding how we're going to go out to the foreign trade market, how do you expect us to make foreign trade co-operation, and how will our businesses turn to certain markets?- I'm sorry. How does the state think to protect them in this context, and what is the projection of the state, where even the state will interfere?- I'm sorry. Do you have a vision – how do you enter the foreign trade business this and the next few years? This is very important, given that on this basis we can project what kind of situation lies ahead in our personal economy, and this gives us some answers as to how our economic and economic and political relations on a bilateral or multilateral plan will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18857	The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament, Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18858	How good is the law on foreign trade, which you have submitted to us for consideration, says the definition in Article 35, which provides for measures to protect the balance of the balance of payments, as well as the refusal of amendments to which I have added one measure. So, this law on foreign trade, which mainly implies imports under foreign trade, the government says that on a proposal from the Ministry, it will be able to limit the amount and value of imports, I say exports are not mentioned, and that is exactly how the government understands foreign trade. – In order to protect the external financial position and balance of payments, the Republic of Serbia will, on the basis of data and opinions received from the National Bank of Serbia, therefore, be indistinguishable from the National Bank, and the benefit of monetary policy and the overall policy that has helped the payment-balance position will be clear and visible to all, be able to apply some measures to prevent the decline of foreign reserves – but no measures can be introduced to protect domestic producers. So much for the government's understanding of its country's foreign trade position and how to protect the pay balance position. I submit an amendment requiring attitude 1 to be changed and it is now said: "If external trade and balance of payments of the Republic of Serbia, the government, without the opinion of the National Bank, can take measures to further encourage exports and foreign exchange inflows. "Why is it not allowed to stimulate exports, if it brings in foreign exchange inflows, and we are talking about keeping foreign reserves and that we are at risk of a pay-balance position? Indeed, I can't believe that someone won't want a basic cause, a basic reason, for which the foreign exchanges are coming into the country to indicate as a measure to protect the payment-sustaining position, or foreign reserves. It's just talking about years of back-application practice, the only thing that suits those on the side, and also those here who want to court those on the side, the way the foreign exchange inflow comes are loans, loans and little donations from the beginning of those so-called democratic changes. It is simply incomprehensible that the protection of payment and balance positions cannot be achieved by measures to stimulate exports which, in fact, stimulate the foreign inflow! I can't understand when the 2008 data says that 5.8 billion euros is our current account deficit is someone's silence that one of the basic conditions for this country to enter the EU and become a member of that good business club that the share of exports to the gross social product must be 40%. Rarely, almost nowhere you can hear, that the condition that we are very interested in is in front of the Serbian Progressive Party for it and I ask the Government to encourage production by economic policy measures for both the export and the state development bank and the incentives and all the measures available to encourage an export-oriented economy because of our people, because of their survival, because of the development of this country, but also because it is a condition for entering that club. Don't say that this data is twice as low today, 21.7% is the share of exports to the gross social product. Why, then, if this is a condition for entering the EU, do you reject an amendment requiring the state to have the right to take measures to encourage exports in the event of an external trade and balance of payments? You're just not interested in having this legal obligation. You want incentives, including exports, to depend on the goodwill and discretion of those who have the resources from the budget that we fill, and spend only some, as a rule, chosen. Which way do you predict to regulate a payment-balance position that will endanger foreign reserves? Again and just privatisation! My dear gentlemen, to inform you, even George Soros, an economic guru, and even on these grounds, stopped talking about a Washington consensus whose basic commands are privatisation, liberalisation and stabilisation. You're the only one here who insists on privatization, per se, as a way to solve the problem. Is it not possible to achieve an increase in productivity and efficiency through more responsible use of funds, by handling, or do you just think that prescribing old-fashioned and bad recipes is a way out of this crisis?- I'm sorry. I really think that this government has unwarrantedly taken one part out of the conditions for EU entry and that the right, human right, does not define and understand at all as the rights of people to work and earn and live decently from their work, that human freedoms are not undefined terms, but that man's freedom to choose a job, but the state has to offer it to him. In this completely distorted understanding of things and economic policy, this law on foreign trade has also been made, in which you reject an amendment that requires the government to encourage exports and foreign exchange inflows by its economic policy. What an absurdity this is, let the citizens of Serbia assess! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18859	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VIII Promotion of exports and foreign investments, subtitled Agency and Art. 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18860	Mrs. Komic, Miss Minister, after this flying change of ministers and after the finding of my distinguished colleague, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, on the proposal for a law on foreign trade, the only thing I can add to this topic is that the set of these laws is intended to focus part of the economic law package on the approximation of the World Trade Organisation, nothing whole and rational in all of this. My amendment suggests deleting an article. 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46 relate to the Agency for Foreign Trade, Labour, Foreign Investment Promotion, Export Promotion and Control. I must remind you that in Serbia, in addition to 25 ministries and 105 agencies and the Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group, there are no grounds at this time for the establishment and existence of an external trade agency. If the main goal of the agency mentioned is the fair performance and branding of Serbia, the Serbian market and products in the way it was done in the European Times, then I don't know and see the purpose of everything else. What are the effects of the agency, and given the costs it costs, what is the government doing documenting the success of this agency? I must remind you that the 27m euros invested in jobs in this sector in the economy and in this business sector speak of the fact that subsidies in this area attract, like someone said, only speculators. Nowhere in the world, except for us, subsidies in this area are done in this way, but from various access funds, development funds, but not from the budget of a particular state, i.e. The Republic of Serbia. We accidentally found out in the principle debate on the set of these economic laws about the company's name, whose name I don't want to advertise again, that a huge amount of funds, in a single government, is assigned, and we're wondering where they are and how much funds are allocated to this area and how they're distributed. On which site can you find and whom, besides the Government and the Ministry, are these data available, related to investment in this area, and this, maintaining areas of new jobs? I must ask the lady, about a set of these laws, and especially for the law of foreign trade, given her jurisdiction, if she is able to answer the most important question in this area, which is – what measures are necessary and priority at this time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry are trying to take in this area, given the current global and domestic economic crisis? I really want to ask you, Mrs Comic, if you were to conduct a survey among us MPs at the moment, I do not define myself as the ruling coalition, nor the opposition, would part of the MPs know which part of the agenda we are at? I am saying this for reasons why today, as well as every day when we are discussing a number of laws, and this case of economic laws, we are coming to the views of certain parties that form a ruling coalition, which are anti-probative, i.e. which do not support certain laws, I ask, are you sure that obstruction of the Assembly is not the way of doing business, since this morning from certain parliamentary benches there are guidelines that certain laws are unacceptable and that the ruling or part of the ruling coalition will not vote for them? Do you think it's not an obstruction of the Assembly when you haven't agreed on everything that needs to come to the agenda and part of what's likely to be withdrawn from the agenda? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18861	The title above Article 42 of the amendment was filed by the national emissary Elena Christmas - Italian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Veselinović in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted the title above Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Milorad Krstin in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Nenad Popović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Perić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Nikola Savic and Zoran Antić submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 23rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE SANDARDIZATION (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Nikola Savić, Milovanovic, Dusan Marić, Vlad Milojković, Tomislav Ljubenović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanovic, Marko Milenković, Radica Jocic, Dušanka Plečević, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Popović, Milan M. Nikolić, Milan Škrbić, Mirko Munjic, Milan Vjeljinović, Sredo Perić, Milorad Buha, Sulejman Spaho, Goran Mihajlović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Petar Jojić, Slađan Mijalić, Dobrislav Prelić, Milorad Krstinić, Milorad Krstin, Aleksandar Martinović, Milan Avramović, Vladan Jeremić, Bojan Mladen, Vitožinović, Vito Zuran Žirić and Antiranž. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 24th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRODUCTS AND ASSESSMENT OF USPUBLISHMENTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nikola Savivić, Srboljub Živanovic and Dragan Acimović. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments by MP Dragan Acimovic to Article 3, which is why this amendment, acting in accordance with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, it can't be debated and it's not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 25th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a TURISM Law (specificities) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Spasojević, Zlata Đerić, Svetlana Stojanović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Zoran Nikolic, Milica Vojić - Marković, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić, Arsen Đurić, Jovan Palalić, Dragan Šormaz, Milica Radović, Milos Radulović, Milos Radulović, Vladimir Milentijević, Donka Banović, Mićo Rogović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Dejan Nikolic, Bojan Stanojević, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Petar Jojić, Dusan Marić, Milovan Radovan, Lidijan Stević, Mirko Munović, Mirko Mužanović, Tomišanović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragoović, Draga Ljuba Ljuba Ljubić, Dragović, Draga Ljuba Ljubić, Draga Ljubović. You have received amendments from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, as well as amendments from the Government. National MPs Svetlana Stojanović and Milica Vojic - Markovic, by letter of 8 April 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 107. It's a bill of law. National MP Dejan Nikolic, by letter of 23 April 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Trade and Tourism Committee tabled an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Trade and Tourism Committee tabled an amendment to Article 3. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic.. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18862	I'm sorry, I wasn't quick about this technique, but anyway, I can't really talk about the amendment. Unfortunately, counterpart Jovanovic is unable to present it, however, the SRS has given much thought to the topic of the proposed law. We have consulted, of course, all those who have been in tourism for so long, the tourist offer and tourist movements are well recognized and the conclusion is unique and simple – that the proposed law is actually a worse solution than the existing one. What the SRS believes is that this bill makes it obvious that the Ministry's intention, under which tourism fell, is to categorise tourist areas and give to management of categorized continents, and later, through the so-called right of barrier to purchase, to monopolize tourist areas by tycoon of nearby authorities. We can claim this with complete responsibility, in fact, based on the very practice that has been in place for several years, and it is a monopoly by all those who, at the right time, are very likely, in some previous regimes very well managed, profited from the overall accident, and now trying to make huge financial resources, with the support of the authorities, turn into legitimate businesses. It's just that it's become a public secret. On the other hand, however, we have something called Serbia's tourism development. The fact is that many parts of Serbia should live from this tourism, several households and tens of thousands of families should live in a manner worthy of man, but unfortunately, it is not. We don't understand why this area has been neglected until now, so important for Serbia, when, for example, it's about Banjski, mountain or rural tourism, cultural or religious, but I guess we'll hear from someone who's authorized to talk about this topic. The SRS believes it is necessary to adopt, say, a law on spas and rehabilitation centres, not to regulate but regulated areas with a new form, present some kind of activity, however, we have seen that the government is somehow late in response to certain movements. It is also very important, when it comes to capacity and what is completely neglected, for example, Belgrade as our capital has less than 5,000 beds. How unable the authorities are to respond to such a problem, how the government currently concerned, and in the previous meeting, when the tourism resort came to G17, is the fact that the state, for example, paid for the presentation at CNN by budget means. The video presents a monastery on the other side of the Danube, or in neighbouring Romania. This is one of the data that speaks, indeed, of not thinking of such an important area, of very common auto golfes, of marketing campaigns and of strategic planning. There is an impression, we speak in simple language of our citizens of the Serbian state, that all that was carried out within the state, and it was about the designs, the arrangements of certain areas, but it was only for the benefit of certain individuals, who came up with a terrible amount of financial resources, that they were rich, they were creating a monopoly, and of the real development of certain areas, in fact, there was nothing left. If this is a fact, it shows us enough that anyone who wants to see this can sit in a car and go through Serbia and see what level of development is rural, Banish, mountainous, religious or cultural tourism. You have the perfect medieval buildings that are devastated, which are left to the resourcefulness of the monastic communities to put them in that state that should represent extremely strong, powerful and recognizable medieval art and culture. As for the Serbian state, rare examples are where the state has shown interest in investing in such solutions, which would return multiple times. So there is no plan, no strategic planning, no sufficient interest in investment, and we suspect that it will be implemented by this proposed tourism law, for one simple reason, the environment and financial and economic, both external and internal, so the moment in which we adopt and talk about this law absolutely does not correspond to the proposing's intention to invest in the development of tourism that should be returned to Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has a problem accepting the fact that it was presented here several weeks ago, when it was discussed in a united debate on this proposed law, that the proposer intends to regulate the area and place tourism levels at an extremely high level. The first question is, why hasn't it been done so far, when there were so many opportunities, when they were much better both economically and all the other circumstances? And secondly, how does he intend to do now, when we know that raising any area to a certain jealous level means direct investment, direct investment, or direct financial resources? We have a problem maintaining what are the budget users of social peace and economic stability of Serbian citizens. It is not clear, on the basis of which financial structures will the motionor implement this bill? Also, the witness and other facts. We are talking about tourism at the moment when we are thinking about what the IMF guidelines are, and as regards the macroeconomic stability of the Serbian state, the reduction of public consumption and, of course, the guaranteed stability of the economic sector within the very state of Serbia. We don't have any clarifications, we only have the nebula, what it should look like by the end of the year, and thus, that is enough and a strong argument, that there will be problems to implement all those projects planned for the development of tourism in the state of Serbia. But first of all, it is very important for us to hear how the projects that have been implemented so far have produced results and had an effect on the development of tourism, when it comes to the Serbian state's tourist offer. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we won't be able to hear it during today's debate. The authorised representative, who should have answered all these questions, and of course other issues that are touched by the development of tourism, is Mr Mladjan Dinkic, who, unfortunately, is not there. When it comes to the development of tourism, and how is it that economic and regional development, and we would have a small million questions on behalf of all those who have asked us here to ask the authorised representative, but by doing so, the authorised representative is not there to answer and confirm what the Serbian Radical Party suspects, that the envisaged legal solutions will be able to implement, for several reasons, firstly, there is no money for it. The question is, what are the material and technical assumptions that we're not talking about human resources? Even if we knew what strategic planning was and how you would support one plan of activity at the annual level in 2009, then we would probably get the answer that it was just another dead letter on paper, this proposal for a tourism law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18863	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18864	On Article 3rd point 17, the DSS MPs submitted an amendment suggesting that the concept of tourism suprastructure is not about infrastructure, including cultural goods. The government rejected the amendment, under one, because it is incomplete, under two, because it is the opposite of the notion of tourist suprastructure. If it was complete, wouldn't you still stay the opposite? In this explanation, the government stated that the superstructure is made exclusively by buildings that are being raised for the purpose of carrying out tourist activity. Although cultural goods are not really built and created for tourist purposes and we must strictly respect their basic purpose, especially when it comes to churches and monasteries, tourism uses them. In practice, cultural goods are a tourist superstructure. Tourism, unfortunately does not use culture for sustainable development, which would be the case if the bill recognises cultural goods as its suprastructure and precisely, legally defines the obligations tourism has to culture. Sustainable development that as a goal is present in the proposed law, and it is not, people living in relative proximity to cultural monuments would benefit more from tourism. Cultural institutions would return funds already invested to adapt to the needs of tourists. It could also create funds to fund the protection of cultural goods and other activities in culture. In the radical budget rebalancing adopted, the Ministry of Culture's department has the most reduced funds for so-called. Specialized services. Never did MPs know how this largest budget, item, is distributed precisely. The minister's reply was usually for projects. For which, as well as whose projects, it remained a secret. With this cultural policy, the institution of culture will fight for a naked survival, and for the work the state has entrusted them with will somehow be screwed up. Tourism would have to spend part of its profits on cultural goods, which it otherwise uses as its superstructure. We call on the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18865	The word was also asked for by the MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18866	That's exactly the problem. We are, as authorised representatives of citizens, who voted in the May elections, really blind in a way that we do not know in which ways budgets are spent, who participates in spending money on all taxpayers, for the simple reason, because we do not have a final account, we do not have an audit of the final account, we do not have a successful dialogue in the sense that we get qualified answers on certain issues. Most often we report on the basis of writing funds for public information. We know that certain teams dealing with research in which budget spending is spent have problems because most often the government does not find it appropriate to provide timely information that it considers to be information of its own trust. As my colleague said earlier, that's a very significant problem. We don't know how many donations, in the name of which institutions and ways were spent, let's say, in the field of tourism, which projects, who are the bearers of these projects, what are the effects of these projects. But we know that huge funds are being spent on so-called. specialised services and specific projects. Tourism never burns! There is no such thing as tourism development! Capacities are catastrophic! That's the general conclusion. The honor of exceptions, but these exceptions do not confirm that we have a successful tourist offer, but rather on the contrary. Also, it is important to mention and should be subject to a very serious debate is the topic of cultural tourism, which is unfortunately on the lowest possible branches in Serbia. To remind you, there are a number of UNESCO-protected facilities in Serbia, including monuments in Kosovo and Metohija. We don't think it's the best possible solution, but the situation has put it that way. Perhaps this is the only possible way to protect medieval duties against the savagery of Cypriot terrorists: the High Decani monastery, the Pećka Patriarchy, the Gracanica monastery in Prizren, the Church of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška in Pristina, the monastery of Studenica, Stari Ras and Sopocani. The reminders work, in Kosovo and Metohija there are more than 1,500 monasteries and churches of bedbugs. The Eparchy of Rasko-Prizrenska Information Service announced on March 27th 2004, a complemented, corrected, but not a final list of Serbian Orthodox churches and monasteries that were completely destroyed or severely damaged during the March 17th to 20th persecution. Among them are, and we must state them, we are bound also by our own history, and according to our citizens who expect it from us, are burned or mined temple: the Virgin Mary of the 14th century, the temple of Christ Spas from the 14th century, the parish temple of St. George of 1856, the church of St. Nicholas of the 14th century, the Church of St. Nicholas-Runovic of the 16th century, the church of St. Nicholas of the Holy Week, the settlement of Potkaljaj, the 14th century Church of St. Pantelemon of the 14th century, the church of St. Cosmo and Damian of the 14th century, the Church of the Holy Week in the village of Živnjane near Prizren and the monastery of the Holy Archangels of the 14th century. The director of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments has announced that the Institute will quickly submit a detailed report on the restoration of churches in Kosovo and Metohija, and she said, in terms of Serbia's cultural heritage, that the state of Serbia and the Republic Institute have an obligation to present the complete truth about the restoration according to the way it is carried out, and this is a very important fact that in the context of what has been said previously and the development of cultural and spiritual tourism, with all the serious countries really including serious funds other than Serbia, therefore, this renewal takes place in complete contrast with the professional principles applied in the state of Serbia. The Director of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and a member of the Commission for Reconstruction found that the Memorandum of Reconstruction had already been violated because the Commission's report already contained a series of irregularities. The Monument Protection Service believes that the sustainability of the reconstruction is important, while, on the other hand, the Council of Europe considers it only important to restore, even more than once. According to SPC data in Kosovo and Metohija, from June 1999 until 17 March 2004, 115 monasteries and churches were destroyed and damaged, while 34 were desecrated during the March persecution. What is related to cultural tourism in Serbia, there are other sites of importance. As for spiritual tourism other than Raško-Prizrenska eparchy, you have examples from Žička eparchy or Ovčar-Cablarska clisure where moastries are largely restored, but we do not see what is further done on a certain tourist offer when it comes to such important places. I guess we'll hear what the plan is for the future, but there are other sites in Serbia, first because of the public in Serbia, such as Gambigrad or Romulans. It is an archaeological site near Zaječar, in eastern Serbia, the ancient Roman Imperial Palace of Felix Romulan, which has been on UNESCO's World Heritage List since 29 June 2007. Gamzigrad also represents the residence of Roman Emperor Gaius Valeri Maximilian Galari, Diocletian's son-in-law. Then, by Vimination, the site of Pirivo, is part of the great archaeological site of the ancient camp Vimination, with the unearthed graves of different types of construction and mausoleum in the central part. Also, Fruška Gora or Mala Sveta Gora is one of the particularly neglected very significant segments not only of tourist offer, but of historical, cultural and spiritual heritage. What should be of paramount importance to all of us is to hear what the state of Serbia has in mind when it comes to Fruszko Gora and how much financial resources it takes to bring Fruska Gora into line with the content that should, as they deserve, be represented by the state of Serbia. What we must say is that there are 16 Orthodox monasteries in Frusca Gora and therefore there is another name called Little Saint Gora, known for its specific architecture, rich treasures, libraries and frescoes. Fruska Gora also hides numerous archaeological sites from the prehistoric and later period, but, for example, it would be very important for the citizens of Serbia to hear how much investment has been invested in Fruska Gora so far, and how much from now on. Has any of the major projects been implemented on this part, which is almost to the greatest extent and completely devastated? Also, one of the largest and most significant archaeological sites is Lepenski Vir, located on the right bank of the Danube in the Gjerdap gorge in Serbia, in the central part of the Balkan Peninsula. This site was named after the Danube source was the headquarters of one of the most important and complex cultures of prehistory. So, between 1965 and 1970, a fishing-hunting village was discovered with the beginnings of cultivation, seven succession settlements and 136 objects were discovered during the excavation. We should know whether Lepenski Vir will be in the tourist offer and whether the state of Serbia will work on such locations, which we think would bring significant revenues to the state of Serbia. What is significant, as far as cultural tourism is concerned, is another item, which is a Vincan culture or Vinca, which represents the early Neolithic culture of Europe between the first centuries of the fifth millennium before the new era and the first centuries of the fourth millennium before the new era. It stretched from the Middle Potis in the north to the Skopje Hall in the south, and from the rivers Usora and Bosnia in the west to the Sofia Basen in the south, i.e. it covered the territories of today's Serbia, Romania, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Vincan culture was the world's most technologically advanced prehistoric culture, the earliest copper metallurgy in Europe comes from the Vincan region of Beloved in eastern Serbia. Based on all this, and we have consulted the people who worked on this, it is Mrs Natasa Prcic and Dino Rac, the general conclusion is that Serbia has significant resources, but there is no cultural tourism in Serbia. There are individual attempts, most likely many projects, but on Serbian cultural tourism, we can no longer talk but talk. We'd like to hear the reasons why. In addition to this identification, with intent, only certain localities that the world community recognized as locations of exceptional importance and put them under its protection, it should, not only be critical, to better function those inter-resorial relations. That is why it was important for us to have at least the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, which, as part of its resolution ministry, has so many important areas for Serbia, at the same time, at the same time. We fear that such important areas for Serbia, under the direction of one man and his team, do not come into the hands of the monopoly of certain groups, and then you will have a problem with a good part of the opposition, and then – a problem with over a million people in Serbia. For one simple reason, all who want a balanced regional development, improvement of development and a quality offer when it comes to tourism are directly against the monopoly. But to go back to concrete proposals, the SRS believes that, when it comes to cultural tourism, it should, and that is what has to be done in particular and we have tried to explore for ourselves, make a very significant base and stock exchange of Serbia's cultural and tourist offerings. Local communities should bring their development strategies to cultural tourism. This should not be taken out of the jurisdiction of local communities, which will definitely contribute to better defining the state strategy in this area. We don't think that reverse order is better than central, from global to local, but vice versa, from local to global. Local communities must not be taken out of jurisdiction to determine what tourist facilities they are, what kind of tourist offer it must be. This is directly related to the development of the local community, firstly the promotion of the lives of all those who are residents of cities and municipalities. If there was an abuse in an earlier period, and it was a local level, those who abused financial or any other resources must be responsible for it, but centralism in this sense is fatal to the development of local environments. Also, what the SRS believes should be examined and more precisely defined, which is exactly the role of local tourism organisations in forming Serbia's cultural and tourist offer. It is our impression that local organizations, as every time, unfortunately, have skipped over and that the right framework, umbrella and strategy from the central level, should be accepted without discussion at the local level. We think it's inadmissible. It is a very important multidisciplinary education of personnel and populations in line with the needs of sustainable development of cultural tourism. Education should be conducted through school and out-of-school forms. We can't see it's done so far. As an example of successful practice, there should be at least a few projects that should serve us as successful practices and sustainable development projects, even in some areas of tourism development. We would love, at least when it comes to cultural or religious tourism in Serbia, to know which projects they were, who they were. And, above all, it is unfortunately not going to have anyone to answer that question, it will only remain for the parties to assume that tourism in Serbia will appear and, at the end or at the beginning, the time that comes very soon will confirm or deny all of us who are taking part in this debate, we think that the way that the promoter thought that the area of tourism is wrong. We think that in the final collection it will be very devastating for the tourist offer and development of tourism at all. When it comes to such legal proposals, what was inevitable to deliver to all parliamentary groups is the information we are looking for through certain parliamentary issues, which is, how do you think you can implement the sustainable development of tourism in Serbia, with which funding and with which projects?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18867	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic. The time available for the DSS Parliamentary Group is 24.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18868	On Article 3 point 21, the DSS MPs submitted another amendment suggesting that the tourist product, as a set of interdependent elements organised as a special value chain, include cultural goods, both material and immaterial. The government did not accept this amendment with absurd reasoning that there is no concept – tourist attraction. Intangible cultural good are festivals, music, film, theatre, lifestyle and customs of the region, folklore in the broadest sense of words, way and preparation of food and drink, old crafts. Intangible cultural goods are by definition a tourist attraction. Tourism knows it well because it uses them very much. Exit and Guch attract millions of tourists. What cultural goods, mobile and immovable, material and immaterial, therefore, tourist attractions, have from tourism? Very little or nothing. Tourism is looking at its interests, and cultural heritage must be protected by non-existent funds from the rebalanced budget. The real reason why the amendment was rejected is the government's lack of interest in the Serbian people's culture. There's no money for culture. He's not here for anything. There are no system solutions to culture. There is no plan for cultural development and cultural policy. There's no law on culture yet. We're going to spend what our grandfathers left us, with no sense of obligation to contribute, preserve or increase ourselves. The state should be led by people with enough honor to protect national interests in culture and beyond. Then the notion of a tourist product would include cultural goods. I call upon the Members to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18869	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Milan Lapcevic. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18870	On Article 11 of the DSS, they submitted an amendment proposing that the development programme for tourism products should include cultural tourism. The government rejected the amendment because priority tourism products have already been established by the Strategy for Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia, and the government's priority forms of tourism are business, health, mountainous, lakeous, nautical, congress and rural tourism, and cultural tourism has no place in our tourism strategy. He's got it in practice. It's there when tourism wants to use culture. There's no legal obligation to return tourism to culture. The five-star hotels and fitness centers are the same in all countries, hotel chains "Hilton" and "Sheraton" are the same everywhere in the world. A tourist who enjoys their comfort does not need to know which country he is in. The country differs from one another in its culture, history, cultural monuments, national art, customs, crafts, beliefs, lifestyles. The speciality of a country's tourist offer, a region or a local community, the visibility of its cultural identity, which is specifically locally attractive to tourists. Serbia would have had something to offer them if the Law on Tourism saw Serbian culture as a value greater than tourism. If our government were to hold at all to the cultural identity of the Serb people and other peoples living in Serbia but not holding, respect for the culture of the majority and minority peoples is not just marketing for external use. It is also an obligation to provide funds for the preservation of the heritage of Serbian, European, Orthodox, Byzantine, eastern, Jewish, Islamic, Hungarian, Slovak, ours. The development programme of the tourist product should not leave out cultural tourism. Not for culture, not for tourism. I suggest that Members of Parliament vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18871	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18872	The DSS submitted an amendment proposing adding a third position that would oblige cultural institutions to actively participate in creating a tourist offer. The government does not accept this amendment and states it is unacceptable that cultural institutions undertake to participate in the creation of a tourist product. Why it's unacceptable. – Who, if not cultural institutions, can make local cultural potentials attractive on the tourist market and create demand, create a new cultural tourist product? The partnership relationship between tourism travel organisers and cultural institutions is not unacceptable, but is necessary. It is necessary for the development of tourism, for the development of culture and for sustainable development, for better people's lives, for greater employment, for the quality of life of the local population. The regular work of cultural institutions does not involve tourism. In order for the cultural institution to prepare for the arrival of tourists, it must invest certain resources to make their stay more comfortable and comfortable. When tourists leave, the institution of culture has the costs to eliminate the consequences of their stay. It would be wise and necessary for culture and tourism to agree on the sharing of these costs in proportion to what they have invested in the joint creation of a new tourist product, such as before their co-operation did not exist. The division of obligations and responsibilities in the coordinated functioning of culture and tourism is necessary, not unacceptable. I suggest that MPs vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18873	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic, so Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18874	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, we have before us a law on tourism and debate in particular. In principle, DSS MPs said that this law was not good, the legislator did not take care of even regional development and that this law was extremely centralised, which is also how devastating for this social activity and for us and how important, for tourism. Let's explain it to the citizens of Serbia. In Article 14. The government has the possibility of declaring a certain space a tourist space. Also, there is a possibility that he will appoint a tenant who will manage this space and who will be able to use both building land and develop the infrastructure and many other jobs that the government has described to him. And what we wanted with this amendment is for local self-government to be a strategic partner to the government, that is, one relationship between the government and local self-government, so in that sense we asked the government to give some space to local self-government. In fact, many local self-governments invested in infrastructure, invested in hotels, restaurants, in other tourist facilities that the government declares a tourist space. In this regard, we expect this amendment to be accepted, as many local self-governments have also received certain funds from these tourist facilities in their budgets. With this new law, they lose all those funds and have no projected resources in the budget. That's why I propose to the government and the resolution ministry to accept our amendment, to gain importance and local self-government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18875	Thank you. The word is Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18876	The SRS believes that this is a very important topic that has demanded perhaps a longer period of public debate and the inclusion of all those who have contributed in certain ways for years to a better view of the development of tourism in Serbia. It is not clear at all how the state of Serbia so little income from tourism and how fantastic locations are completely devastated or neglected. One of these, they were saying earlier, is Fruska Gora, which, I suppose, you'll all agree, is a painful point for all of us. It is, however, a small Sveta Gora, which could contribute to both spiritual, historical and cultural and tourist paintings of Serbia, but unfortunately, the state did not consider it appropriate to invest significant funds when it comes to Frusko Gora. It is not clear, then, what is the strategy of tourism development in Serbia. However, what we have tried to do for this debate, expecting authorised representatives to participate with us in this dialogue, is to gather some of the scientific papers that have helped us, firstly, to understand how all these disciplines are connected to each other, and thus also to the resolutions. That is why, if the country's economic recovery is already a priority and the priority is to mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis, to sit down a number of resolute ministers, but this is the answer in which the state of Serbia sees tourism as a very profitable area for a country like Serbia. We have so consulted Branislav Gulan's work, thanks again to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which we see in 2013, which is a 150-year tradition of collapse, and this scientific paper has been presented at the international congress at the Hotel "Planum", and at Hotel Hayat, very important to us, because it is talking about something that we consider to be whole and very important, and it is also about the economy, economy and tourist offer, which is exactly the link between rural tourism in Serbia, which we consider unfairly neglected. What we can detect, it's just a few manifestations, but strategic thinking in this area seems to be gone. That an authorised representative is probably here to give us some more information. That's why we think that this bill is also quite concrete, especially when it comes to the agrarian development of certain local communities. But let's get back to scientific work. I think the public in Serbia should have such information, at least from MPs and representatives of the opposition, if not from representatives of the authorities. I'm going to start at the end, which I think is very important, so that the previous picture is quite clear. So, based on some research, the World Tourism Organisation recommended that Serbia develop rural, or rural tourism. The European Agency for Reconstruction funded two projects aimed at informing citizens, for example, eastern and southern Serbia about the great possibilities for better living through rural tourism development, but we do not know how the state of Serbia supported the effects of these projects, because in order for a particular area to be developed in terms of the tourism offer, the state must invest or at least support certain developments. In this scientific paper, the fact is that of all the countries in Europe that deal with rural, rural tourism, Serbia definitely has the best conditions. Let's see if Serbia has the best effects when it comes to the development of rural tourism. The fact is that the offer of green tourism in Serbia is still increasingly present year by year, however, that this tourism branch, or rural rural tourism, can be an extraordinary potential, but it is not clear what the strategy of developing this tourism branch is, which should also be materially technical assumptions and a financial framework for the development of rural tourism, because this is directly related to the development, let's say, agriculture and all that the agriculture branch pulls with it. Correct me, in fact, I don't know who might correct me, perhaps Mr. Novakovic, but he's not in this context, unfortunately, there is no authorised representative, but it seems to us that agriculture, at least based on the results of achieving and working within this branch in Serbia, is completely marginalized. What, but only through the scientific work and the scientific work that we are talking about here, should benefit from rural tourism and see what the state of Serbia has lost by reckless and irresponsible relations with this area of economy, so if one rural household has two rooms with two beds each, it has issued them to foreigners 200 days a year, at a cost of only 20 euros for a full pension and if you multiply it all, and mathematics is very accurate and precise, you get a figure of 16 thousand euros in income. Also, it should be borne in mind that most of the costs represent the food and drink that our farmer mainly produces, which will say that there is no more going to the market, fuel costs, buying weights and wasting time, everything goes to the table in front of his client, or tourists, and when that would be converted to Serbia where half of the population lives in villages, so it can be said that there are up to a million rural households, the official figure is 778 thousand, if only 10% of these households are engaged in tourism, that would mean an additional income of 1.6 billion euros for Serbia. But immediately the question arises why would one household have only two rooms and four issue beds? It came from that assumption in this scientific paper. Already today, there are households with dozens and more beds. In Serbian villages, vacation would be great in winter, where there is snow, so stay would be possible throughout the year. So tourist facilities could be fully operational throughout all seasons. It is further said that foreigners spend much more than 20 euros a day, if they are satisfied with the service and if they are offered quality goods. In the end, why should only 10% of the rural population deal with tourism? Why wouldn't that be 30% or more? This is exactly a question for the state. So, this benefit, not only for people who are residents of these specific areas, and if they were to invest in these areas, would therefore raise the level of development of that area and then we would not have the migration of residents from these villages to cities, as is the case now that we have a completely dead environment, because the younger generation is in search of a good job leaving villages and coming to cities. That would also stop the white plague in Serbia, as one city disappears each year. In fact, 40,000 inhabitants die more than they are born. Developed rural tourism, which is very important, and therefore it was very important for Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, to be present, to start the entire economy, from agriculture to processing, construction industry, construction materials industry, household equipment, traffic, trade, as well as a large part of non-economic activity. As you can see, a debate on such a bill cannot touch only one area, and if the government intends to recover the state of Serbia economically, because it promised in 2000, then there should be several representatives of the government and we would have a complete story. In this way, this debate comes down to a pointless debate in terms of the implementation of the legal principles, with some MPs participating, most often not being present, others reading the paper, and citizens will wonder why the debate when two-thirds of the parliamentary potential is not in the Assembly Hall when we talk about such important issues as the proposal for a tourism law. And what is it that the state of Serbia is losing completely irresponsible planning policy? What should be of the same importance, and in terms of, of course, the development of tourism in Serbia, the best evidence of potential exploitation is the forecasting of the World Tourism Organisation's Secretary-General that in the world of 2020 there will be about 1.6 billion foreign tourists per year, which means an increase of more than 100% compared to 2003. Otherwise, it should be pointed out that there has been a trend in the world for the last few years to expand tourism towards the interior of the continent, which is the first place in the village. Because of all this, there is tourism in the world today called rural tourism. France, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Austria are ahead of Europe. Let's just use an ominous method to compare villages, say, France and Spain with rural tourism in Serbia. Categories completely incomparable, in terms of maintenance of infrastructure, equipment, food production, offers, organised arrival, organized departure, simply, there is no strategic planning here. It should be recalled that the former tourism minister announced at the opening of the International Tourism Fair in Belgrade, for example, in 2003, it unfortunately never came to life, but was one mere promise that Serbia's tourists would count millions of euros in tourism, as the trend in the world is a journey towards smaller groups to villages and spas. The total budget for tourism, for example, in Serbia for 2007 was 4.08 billion dinars, which was 3.5 times the previous year, i.e. In 2006, but we are not sure that the effects of the investment and this, with certainty, we can claim, non-intentional spending, went in line with the increase in the tourist offer. But we're blind to it, we don't have feedback on how it invests in certain regions, which are projects, who are project holders. It was planned to invest in mountain river tourism, lakes and spas, about three billion dinars, to take care of national and local projects equally. The plan was for the state to invest in Serbia and infrastructure, private sector, catering facilities. In 2007, 500m-dollar tourism revenues were expected in Serbia, which is 100m dollars more than, say, 2006, and was aimed at achieving a billion-dollar income from tourism by 2010. What would be very important here is to hear – how much investment has been invested and how much has been coming from tourism since 2000, and so on, what are the tourist sites that have experienced their renaissance and thus the tourist branch. Speaking of a very important area of rural tourism, which the SRS considers to be one of the very important tourist branches, precisely because agriculture is one of the most important areas, which is obviously someone's interest, not Serbian, marginalized. It is very important to mention some rural events, which, unfortunately, are just manifestations. We don't see that there's going to be any planning, in terms of a better and more effective offer. What the World Tourism Organisation recommended to Serbia, in terms of rural development, concerns our history, Serbian, authentic, traditional, which is exceptional and colourful, rich. We have nothing to be ashamed of, and apparently someone has estimated that there is no need to talk about it. What is very important and what needs to be nurtured, we will try as a party to just go in that direction, and we will really want the younger generations to participate in this, because we think that in the best possible way the state can be represented by preserving traditional and historical values and showing them in an acceptable marketing manner. So it should be our face and face. We do not see a trend or the idea that the state of Serbia really wants to present what we are, and what is somehow constantly being thrown out and making fun of a certain part of the community, and that we are very helpful in doing so. Today, when it comes to rural tourism, it is often made a film or a picture, which is nature, tents, music and, of course, a 'Bermudian triangle' within which people are lost after a very difficult business week or business period. The best example is, for example, a trumpet assembly in Guca, held every year in early August. Then, at the end of August, every year, the traditional days of the 'Wine Ball' are held in Vlasotinc in honor of the god Bahus, or Dionysus. In Alexandrovac is held "Zupska Berba", and is visited by guests from Krf, with whom this is a place in the brotherhood. It is to be added by the Parliament of flutes held each year in late July and in early August in the village of Grljan near Zaječar. Furthermore, there is one walking manifestation of this species, called 'prela and settlement', and I think we are fully convinced that a good part of the citizens who follow in the direct transmission of this debate for these many manifestations may not even know, and they would like to know. There is also the "Cobasiciad" in Turkey, which is held at the beginning of the year, where the guests are shown everything the locals know. The festival of prosciuttos takes place at Zlatibor early this year. Some of these events also called for the world in local towns, so Zlatibor hosts the "World Food Days" event. Then, summer events in rural areas are, say, "Sweep Days" in Ossetia. Some events are organized for animal lovers too. We can conclude that these events are mostly, and all of us who have this local experience, that is, experience in managing the local community, thanks to the long tradition, thanks to the residents of these local environments and their ability to do so and do not interrupt the long and respectable tradition. The question within the meaning of this law, which really gives rise to certain competences to local communities, is – how all these manifestations will be maintained, especially because support by municipalities or cities is too much needed to maintain such events, which really mean the lives of our citizens in these local environments. They're supposed to mean the same thing to all of us. What is extremely significant, and it is also, the topic of this scientific work, thanks to some of our scientific workers, we can see something that we do not have the opportunity to see so often, except in "Zika's iris" and some content during the week, for example, at a national service, which is a link between agriculture and rural tourism. About 90% of Serbia's territory, imagine, are rural areas where half the population lives. These areas have been very neglected both in development and in the use of rural tourism, so they represent a completely untapped chance. It's not clear why this is like this. A necessary shift in favour of a policy of accelerated rural development should create conditions for better living in the country, i.e. in rural areas. With production and food, which is realistic for Serbia, regional growth can be balanced. Thus, conditions are being created for the development of rural tourism, which is directly related to food production, of which we could also export, in terms of foreign trade, and how to earn. Rural development in general depends on the development of rural tourism in Serbia. If Mr Dinkic were there, we could possibly hear what kind of rural development is expected, can we talk about a sustainable rural development project, and then we would probably get an answer to the question of whether we can have good rural tourism, which, we have no doubt, would be visited by all residents of large cities, and we would all try to make the tourist offer nice for Serbia an offer of all major world events. Unfortunately, we will not get an answer and Serbian citizens will not hear what the state of Serbia is preparing in this part. The fact is that with economic growth, I am now talking about economic downturn, because there was no responsible planning of earlier years, and the development increases the volume and quality of tourism services in rural areas. These services are in line with the development of agriculture, which pervade each other, conditions for development. For example, with increased visits by foreign tourists to rural regions, so-called The invisible export of food. This improves the country's unfavourable foreign trade balance anyway. In addition, the development of the tourism economy in rural areas promotes employment which is also one of the points of this plenary session, and we will talk about that part then. It is necessary to continuously coordinate the development of tourism in rural areas, agriculture and food industries. As you can see, all of this is closely connected and it was very important that we have three or four responsible ministers who will answer these topics, and not, unfortunately, I thank the ladies in front of, I suppose, the Resort Ministry, who attend this debate, but, unfortunately, you cannot participate in it, so that we are all disabled, and you, I suppose, would also like to participate in this debate, and so will we, because we will be denied for many of the answers to these topics that we consider to be very important. What's there is, your fault isn't, but we'll still try to call, not to call Mr Dinkic, we haven't seen him here, where he belongs, during this debate. It should be mentioned, for example, that in 2006, Serbia earned $400m from the tourism economy. In a year later, about $500m was due to arrive in the foreign exchange account, which was the goal, and as we saw by 2020, what the Serbian state's goal was then, a billion dollars. We don't see how the state thinks to make this income, given the level of rural development. With tourists visiting major cities, most of the money will, as expected, be left in rural tourist environments that attracts more tourists, as seen in the World Tourism Organisation. In Serbia, it is very characteristic and Serbia can provide this, given that it is a very attractive country, at least when it comes to areas painted with amazing beauty, but unfortunately all that follows is at such a low level of development. All those who are used to certain degrees of service from the world want to try the national cuisine, I suppose you are witnesses that Serbia has to raise itself to its national cuisine and that everywhere in the world, wherever it presents, at any fair, its products, it only increases interest. When all these people come to Serbia, they are disappointed with the development of tourism, which is infrastructure and everything else. So, what we are very grateful for is, however, also to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr Gulan, and regarding the scientific work that has painted a very important area of tourism, I hope that in a decent way we have presented to the citizens of Serbia and presented that the government does not actually have the right picture of development, when it comes to cultural tourism, rural tourism, religious tourism. That's what the examples are about. One of the examples that is very interesting, but too painful to talk about in detail, is the privatisation of a small hotel within the monastery of Studenica, which has several dozen employees who have not received their salaries for years, expressed themselves by looking for the Studenica and the accommodations for them to be closer to the monastery's conclusion, offering products that they are mostly making, so, on the black side, under the counter. And so, thanks to the crayons, the cheese they make, they can support themselves and their families monthly. The tourist facilities and resources of this area are amazing. The saddest fact is that the state has gone completely deaf about the development of this type of tourism, and this would be a fantastic opportunity for residents of all the surrounding villages to live a life of decent people. And for the monastic community, which also makes exceptional products, one example of the state's interest in investing in life, work, the spiritual development of all these people gravitating in the Studenica monastery, and in the first place, it seems that the image of Serbia, when every camera of a foreign tourist touches an area painted with incredible colors, would be much nicer. The question is what will Serbia, or the state, do on this issue, paint the colors we deserve, which are the most beautiful colors in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18877	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18878	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 14. The bill defines the way in which tourist space is declared and the determination of managers in that tourist space. The DSS parliamentary group has tabled two amendments to this member of the law. My colleague, Pejcic, spoke about the first amendment, namely, that we think it is necessary to involve units of local self-government in the process of declaring tourist space. The bill provides that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, declares tourist space, without any consultation with local self-government units on whose territory this area is located, and we consider it unacceptable, since municipalities have managed these areas and have had jurisdiction in those areas so far, and have also achieved revenue from the issue of locations and construction land arrangements. I think that this is a classic centralisation after the reduction of the transfers by municipalities through budget rebalancing, which was recently adopted, following the abolition of some projects that should have been refinanced by municipalities across Serbia. I think the municipalities have already been denied enough for huge resources and by taking on these powers and these revenues, I think it's going to be difficult to function. The amendment that we have submitted, this second amendment, concerns who can be the manager of the tourist space. The bill provides that the manager may be a public enterprise or institution whose founder is Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, and in pages 4 and 5, the manager of tourist space is also a private company or private company. This is absolutely unacceptable for us, and we have proposed with our amendment who can be the manager of the tourist space, so we have suggested that these can be tourist organisations, destination management of the organisation or public enterprises and institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Also, we have suggested that sections 4 and 5 be deleted, i.e. private enterprises cannot be managers of tourist space. In view of the powers to be granted to the manager of the tourist space and competences in terms of the arrangements and use of the building land, the development of tourist infrastructure, tourist counter-structures, in terms of revenue generated by this tourist space manager, from the publication of locations for facilities for trade and tourism, for entertainment parks, parking spaces, sports and recreational facilities, therefore, these are huge revenues that could be used by a private company, and that it does not account for anyone, namely, work programmes, tourist space managers means, this is absolutely unacceptable to us and we believe that this should be done by a public, state or municipal institution. The tourism development strategy plans to set up destination management organisations according to the public and private sector partnership model, and we think that is exactly what the best model of tourist space management is. To form these destination management organizations in whose ownership structure the state would participate with a certain percentage, municipalities with a certain percentage and the most important economic operators dealing with tourism in the territory of the tourist area. In this way, all those most interested in the development of this tourist space would be involved in its management. I think it's the most pathetic solution when it comes to who can manage the tourist space. I really hope, there is still time, accept this amendment, because by not accepting this amendment we will bring units of local self-government on whose territory there are large tourist centres such as Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, Sokobanja, in an extremely difficult position and in danger of being deprived of certain responsibilities regarding the management and use of this tourist space and the huge revenues they have so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18879	Thank you. On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment to Article 14. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Who wants a word on this amendment? I'm asking you to come in, I'm sorry. According to the previous amendment to Article 14, which was submitted jointly by MPs Arsen Djuric and Milan Dimitrijevic, the word is Mr Zoran Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18880	Thank the chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that the government should seriously consider the previous amendment of the DSS colleagues because there is indeed arguments that local self-government must in some way be asked about the declaration of tourist space. We LDP advocate essential decentralisation, and I read in the press these days that the president of the LDP feels the same way, and then the adoption of this amendment is an opportunity to show that commitment in part. They really need to strengthen the powers of local self-government, not make them weak. With the right, Serbia's interior is often accused of centralisation. This is one of the examples that objectively supports these accusations. Why is it a problem to ask the local self-government for consent and opinion when it happens on her territory? If we want to strengthen the power that is close to the citizens, it is certainly a local, then we must certainly give local self-government authority and power. Like this, it seems, as if the practice that gives the most negative consequences continues, we see it in the case of the Nature Park "Wet Gora" – no one has asked the municipality of Užice when it was declared a nature park, when a public enterprise was established and appointed director, who has been managing that territory for five years now. Even under this government, there was an expansion of the territory by about 6,000 hectares of private property. On the other hand, the powers that the person who manages under the given circumstances are enormous, not only from the arrangements and regimes of work on that particular territory, the parking arrangements, but also to the extreme serious building and urban powers. It's all past and without any control of the local self-government. Here's the simplest example, let's say, the municipality of Užica last year, on the basis of tourist taxis from Park "Mokra Gora" earned about 200 grand. It's a really funny sum if we know the traffic that's going on there, while, on the other hand, Hotel "Omorika" on Tara only paid 4 and a half million dinars, so more than ten times one hotel was made on the basis of tourist taxis than Nature Park, which controls a man with his so-called. A company that controls so much of the land. A colleague says he doesn't like the solution that private companies run something like nature park or tourist space, but we have to go to those solutions where private public partnership gets its meaning. We don't think it's a terrible thing, for example, in particular, the director of the Public Enterprise "Mokra Gora", which is a public enterprise founded by the government's decision, at the same time has private property in that same space, which he manages as, let's call him, a civil servant. Now imagine that absurd. The state founded a public company, set up an X-Yelon man to be the director of the company, and that man in the territory has private property. If there's a conflict of interest, then it's certainly, above all, a conflict of interest. In this context, advocating the management of private companies, in normal transparent procedure, where a tender will be launched and where whoever offers the best conditions will get it, is not so bad, because we have an example that although it is not a public enterprise, it is clear that private interests are being implemented through a public company. Here's just one example where the municipality is damaged, and these laws suggest further degradation of local self-government, let's say, what about the fact that it doesn't want, and it doesn't want, to pay the municipal services to the municipality of Užice Director of the Public Enterprise "Mokra Gora", and also the owner of a good piece of land owned, in Nature Park, to avoid, to say, the cost? It is clear that the solutions in Article 14 are not a guarantee that the public interest will not be degraded in favour of the private one, because we have such examples now and without this, and above all, there is no guarantee that the local self-government unit will be able to control, warn, and ultimately, to affect the developments in that tourist zone located in that local self-government. That's why I think the government should consider amending a DSS colleague, because it's logical, if we want decentralisation to allow units of local self-government, that is to say, to ask itself something, about something that it has to, and should benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18881	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18882	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, that not all comments would be negative for this whole set of laws, I must express my gratitude that part of the important amendments of the Serbian Progressive Party have been accepted, and part of the amendments that are similar, which are by other parliamentary groups that have submitted, and I am pleased with the situation. I can't help but say that the old tourism law was passed in 2005, followed by the creation of a project – a strategy for the development of Serbian tourism between 2005 and 2015, and these days we have a new tourism law in the assembly procedure. What's all that saying? It says that all acts, within the meaning of the law, and especially master plan, have their own real value if only implemented into action. In doing so, the time from 2005 to today has passed, and there are six years left to realise the policy of the Serbian Tourism Development Strategy project in the period up to 2015. I must remind the public that these planned investments and projects within this project have reached around 2.5 billion figures within the framework of investments in Serbian tourism. I would not like to rely on the calendar of tourist activities, but I cannot say that it should be agreed and that, let's say, in a 100km radius in one day, there cannot be three important three tourist events or three tourist activities, and in this regard the Ministry, given its very large and unique competences in this area of tourism, should be kept in mind that these activities harmonize with the annual activity plans. I don't want to repeat myself with my colleagues, but because of what they said in the previous presentations, it leads to a conclusion on what's important. It is important to lead a tourism policy towards the creation and care of long-term strategic potentials behind which various offers and products stand, but products that are unique, which are difficult to copy and which represent, as such, strategic resources for success in the future. Serbia cannot take responsibility for building its own recognizable competences in tourism and relying on its attractiveness in terms of natural, historical and social elements, with the environment it already owns and which it is abundant, normally, all to be spicy and recognizable in our Serbian lifestyle that will best be experienced in the environment of friendly people, and Serbia indeed is. What is important for the development of tourism on this, as well as worldwide, space, in the coming period, is that the survival strategy will apply in the coming years. Given this survival strategy, all our neighbours, all the countries in the environment and much more important tourist countries that have much stronger tourism potentials have made intervention measures. There was a hint here that there would be some activity in this sector, but to this day it's all there is to it. Regardless of the global and domestic economic and financial crisis, regardless of these existing segments and elements that pressure tourism, and the crisis is the first to feel the most in this tourist and catering activity, we cannot forget some good examples from Middle East countries that are already experiencing a touristic growth in this period of the world economic crisis, and Serbia as an undiscovered country, a potential tourist destination has a developmental chance in all this and we in the coming period and we cannot abandon that fact from now on. I would ask the government's representative to transfer the concerns of tourist entities, the status of holders, that there is not enough awareness to bring and take certain intervention measures on domestic tourism. I have to give an example of Slovenian spas, which are, for example, from small thermal sources, with selfless investment and state-owned companies and funds, made as modern tourist health and recreational wellness centres. For example, at the border of Croatia in the Bela Krajina, the Terme Čatez, which each year has almost the same number of nights as the whole of Serbia. And what happens to our spas? A few years ago, we heard statements that all our spas would be privatized, that they wouldn't be invested in a penny. What were they thinking when, and with what occasion, those thoughts were spoken? Was it thought that only the adoption of tourism laws or this tourism law or the functioning of a development agency would contribute, for example, to the privatisation and improvement of the functioning of our health and banana centres? Practice shows that much more measures and activities need to be taken than any previous and current tourism law foresees. In the first two months, indicators from the Serbian tourist organisation say the decline of tourists compared to the same period of the previous year is 9%. However, real data, data that can be seen on the ground, which all of us can see by passing through Serbia and tourist destinations say that the decline has not been kept at that 9% and therefore I appeal to the urgent adoption of intervention measures. The decline, unfortunately, is already about 50% compared to the same period of the previous year. It is important that in a package of these intervention measures it is specified and suggested that our tourist offer must experience a drop in prices, as other countries have done in the previous period, and who is not already engaged in tourism today, everyone deals with tourism and everyone has certain potentials. A new draft of the tourism law came into the assembly procedure without a large number of public debates passing, an explanation of this law suggests that around 270 entities participated in the public debate. However, I must point out that 270 serious subjects exist, for example, only at a tourist destination called Zlatibor-Zlatar. Unseriously approached the subject, and it seems to me that this law will also experience the fate of the 2005 law. The law has also been announced as part of a package of economic measures in terms of approaching the standards and standards of the World Trade and World Tourism Organisation, and it finds it rather unclear to finance local tourism organisations, tourism organisations of Serbia. Then, what is important, and what is invested in a lot of financial resources, which is the creation of a strategy for the development of Serbian tourism by 2015, this proposal is not in line with this strategy, the removal of clusters that have already, for example, in the Western Serbia region and experienced some of their initial steps and lived in practice. So we have a situation that salamis and houses in Serbia are over 200 years old, which can be great tourist potentials, but with less effort to become, they are placed in the same plane, for example, as hotels "Hajat". The law does not solve the problem of illegal tourists and the problem of charging tourist fees anywhere. Tourist inspectors will control the inflow of tourist tax, but not those who do not report tourists. The national corporation is a tourist corporation that will be established or financed by the budget, and according to the company law, the primary goal of such societies is, and this law gives them an incredible opportunity to buy and resell the country in Serbia and all tourist spaces and destinations. Your explanation of the formation of this national corporation and the arguments for all of it are not in line. The tourism strategy, in itself, gave some and clear guidance in this part. She says it is necessary to form destination management organisations that will be a company with mixed properties, state and private, which have references to join all tourist entities, so-called strike holders, at certain tourist destinations i.e. space, whose goal is exclusively to develop tourism products, making a brand that Serbia is currently also, unfortunately, not a marketing region. You repeat here the same story as in the case of regional development agencies, because the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is trying to make you political, not operational. It is an illusory call to an internationalist method, and I can't help but joke, we all understand that in this political story you are connected by the Socialist International, but the recommendations for internationalism in tourism, indeed, has not been issued by the World Tourism Organisation or any national strategy tells you about it, each country has its own specific elements and is a special story for the development of tourism, and principles and norms, and standards that must be respected, are not problems of internationalism. Obviously, there is a deficit of subjects at local level and a lack of personnel in that part, but this cannot solve the introduction and functioning of the National Tourist Corporation. This story can only be logical in relation to local tourist facilities, tourism entities, other tourism entities in the area, regional destination organisations and the National Tourist Corporation, so master plans that have already been made or for certain destinations, for which they are not, can be revived and realised in practice. Otherwise, as so far, political membership and politics will be the only condition for tourism development in priority tourist destinations. This story also refers to the categorisation of tourist resorts, to the implementation of incentive measures. Just one problem to point out, so I'm going to explain it on the case of this amendment, how can the Ministry, which by this law has "God's whip" in its hands and total privilege, know, and how much more than local tourism operators can know, who, as a priority, can get incentives for tourism, for example, in rural tourism? What is it that does not agree with local entities and local tourist organisations, which as hosts in their field have greater insight into the business of all tourist entities and which they can recommend, control part of these and measures and programmes and, of course, the realization of all these activities, so that the situation does not arise, as happened six months ago, on certain loans in the Republic of Serbia? If this story does not go from the foundation, from the bottom, according to the Ministry, I fear that in Serbia we will create or invent a new mountain – the Old Mountain. And what's very important, which was supposed to be solved by the end of this 2009 and so on in 2008 is signalling. In Serbia, too, we cannot manage enough, let alone tourists, so I think that the ministry should, extremely seriously, those measures that are foreseen by the 2005 law, be realised in the coming period, by the end of 2009, that Serbia should be a recognizable country, primarily for domestic tourists, and then for ino tourists. After the adoption of this law, it seems to me that it will be adopted, I am really wondering, as well as the SNS Parliamentary Group, is the creation of another or some new tourism development strategy behind this? Now let me refer to the proposed amendment, Article 15, and how to improve the proposed member. I propose that the "Process to declare a tourist space" procedure is launched with a proposal to declare a tourist space, which prepares the ministry, in line with the Strategic Master Plan and a study of justification for the declaration of tourist space," the "and completed public debates". Why? The intrinsicity of making this law and, part of the copying policy relative to the old law, you can see here in Article 15(4). A proposal for this law, which says: "The proposal of Article 1 puts public insight into a daily list distributed across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the local list of units of local self-government... ''Do you remember, two years ago, you ordered the laws of local self-government to privatise local papers whose founding bodies they were? Have you forgotten that local self-government units are no longer the founders of these local lists? In view of all of this in Section 4, I suggested adding the word "completed public debates" to address the procedures for the declaration of tourist space and to eliminate this anomaly related to the abolition, i.e. the absence of local lists, which are the founders of local self-government units. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18883	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18884	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will immediately use the time of the parliamentary group, because I will not speak only of this amendment, and I will no longer report for my word. In short, I will return to Amendment 14, which I underline, because the Committee on Trade and Tourism has submitted an amendment which in its essence defines the same thing as my amendment, which is that the manager of the tourism space, in addition to the business society, as defined by the current member, can be the existing public service. This amendment was created in a conversation with the Tourist Organization in Sokobanja, with people who are seriously involved in tourism in Sokobanja and, they pointed to one such need, so it is a good thing that this amendment will be adopted. In addition to several more or less technical amendments, I have submitted several essential amendments, certainly the most significant of them is the health tourism amendment, which is very important for all spas, especially Sokobanju. Namely, by preparing for this law, I have studied the laws of European countries, which are at the very world tourist summit, such as: Spain, France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, even Montenegro, and I must say that all these countries in their tourism laws have clearly defined health tourism, have a clearly defined use and protection of the medicinal factor, and I must say again, that the medicine factor is not a renewable resource forever, and we need to protect it legally. The very fact that Western countries with special attention to health tourism suggests that health resources are a major resource, a significant tourist product, and that it is necessary to define it by this tourism law as a roof law. In particular, if we know that those tourist resorts that have a medicinal factor on their territory have a problem. Many local self-governments are found in court disputes with many users of the drug factor, especially special hospitals, losing resources in this way. By adopting this amendment, we would align part of this law with the laws of the EU countries, remove some confusion, solve the problem, and certainly help develop Banjska tourism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18885	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Svetlana Stojanović and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18886	The DSS MPs submitted to Article 19 of the amendment, which we propose to add the 3rd position, which reads: "The immovable and mobile cultural goods that are within the tourist space cannot be part of a purchase contract that concludes the manager of the tourist space". The 2nd position of Article 19 states that if the tourist space in general or partly located in the area of the national park, the manager of the tourist space does not have the right to prevent the purchase, there is no right to purchase at all. Cultural monuments are not mentioned. The government did not accept this amendment to the DSS, '... because the transport and exploitation of cultural goods are governed by a special law that prevents the purchase of cultural goods from being bought by a competent institution of protection. "We believe it is not a waste to stress that travel space purchase contracts cannot possibly include cultural goods whose importance is general and public, because we are witnessing that daily bookstores and cinemas are converted into cafes and perfumeries. Privatisation in culture must be resolved by special laws. We hope for a long - announced law on culture, which cannot come into congregation procedure. But I do suggest that the MPs accept our amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18887	Thank you. National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Šormaz and Milan Lapčević. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18888	The Honorable Chairman and Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 23. It's a bill of law. In fact, Article 23 defines the work of the National Tourist Corporation. Among other things, the bill states that the National Tourist Corporation is financing and managing the facilities of the tourism superstructure. We have suggested that this part of jurisdiction be deleted, because if the law is adopted as well as proposed, it would mean that a state institution, such as the National Tourist Corporation, will finance and manage catering facilities, congress centres, sports and recreational facilities. We think it's not a job for the state, not for its institution, but for private investors. What is the job of the state and the supranational tourism organisation, when established, is to adopt programmes, master plans, development strategies and to invest in infrastructure, to create an ambience for private investors to invest in catering facilities and other facilities that are commercial, not to engage in entrepreneurship themselves. For that reason, we have submitted this amendment. Given that I come from Zlatibor, I will list two of the most important infrastructure investments in which the state was to invest money, to speed up further development of tourism and to encourage existing investors already operating in Zlatibor, Tara, Wekroj Gora, as well as attracting new investors. The first of these projects is Ponikva Airport. As you know, the Ponikve airport used to be a military airport. It is no longer used for that purpose. What was done by the mandates of the previous two governments is that it was declared a civil-military and the former Ministry of Infrastructure has invested about a million and 400,000 euros in extracting the remaining missiles and changing the runway. The Ponikave airport's runway is 3,200 meters long and is one of the longest runways in Europe, so it can land the largest aircraft there is. This is what is very important for further development of tourism in the Zlatibor County. That is why they are interested in the municipalities of Užica, Bajna Basta, Čajetina with its tourist centers, such as Zlatibor, Tara, Zlatara, Mokra Gora. I think building that airport and putting it into civil service would significantly lead to the development of tourism in the entire Zlatibor County. A second important infrastructure project, which the state should finance, is the construction of a highway from Belgrade to Požega. Instead of accepting the concession and starting with the construction of the highway, that concession has been annulled. The state has been promised to finance the construction of the highway, however, there is obviously nothing. These are the things the state needs to do, to invest in infrastructure, and investors exist when enough infrastructure is developed. There are a lot of investors who will invest in catering facilities and other facilities, which monitor tourist activity. We don't think the state should be dealing with these commercial affairs, but infrastructure. That is why I call once again on you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18889	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18890	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, tourism is certainly one of the most important economic branches in which Serbia needs to see its future and opportunities that have not been exploited enough in tourism so far. I certainly don't think that the investments in tourism so far have justified the funds that have agreed on this basis in Serbia. First of all, Serbia's tourism is specific. Serbia no longer has the sea, Serbia has to turn to new types of tourism, and what's new is that Serbia has to develop tourism through four seasons and try to attract all four seasons with different offers and different types of tourism as many visitors as possible to these areas and thus launch a complete economy that monitors tourism, because tourism is not only the provision of catering services. It is, above all, the infrastructure, many other activities, not to mention the food industry, because food should be a brand of Serbia, which actually binds over 47% of the working population. That is why I felt that this amendment was questionable and I believe that it is not responsible enough for the government that there is no minister present, who may have been on the spot to respond to the many amendments that have so far been explained, high-quality and possible for the adoption of today's interpretation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18891	Thank you, too. There's a word for the amendment, Miss Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18892	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support the proposed amendment by my colleague Zlata Djeric from the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, to delete Article 24 from the proposal for a tourism law for the following reasons: given that Serbia has made a very loud promotion of its intention to become a tourist country and to develop tourism as an economic branch of the future, there is no reason to experiment more with this branch, and it does not come with clear and well-founded attitudes, leaving it materially and organisationally to its profession, while narrowing down space for political interference. In principle, I talked about the priorities of tourism development in our country, emphasising rural tourism, sports and Banish tourism as the most important strategic branch of our tourism, which as production tourism can return to society the funds invested for development. In addition to investment and the necessary material resources, we also need to make adequate organisational preparations and changes, in one word, we need to raise this business branch to a much higher level. And if that's what we want, we can't deny ourselves right now. By giving the possibility that jobs of particular importance for the development of tourism under Article 23 of this Law can be entrusted to existing companies, which meet the conditions for the performance of these transactions, so that if none of the existing companies, according to the government's assessment, fulfils the conditions for carrying out those tasks under Article 23, that the Government then establishes the National Tourist Corporation as a business company, creates one complicated procedure without any need. Leaving still in practice assessment, which showed very negative results, because the assessment institute was always suitable for abuses and various machinations. At this point, when the law is passed, we believe it is necessary to establish the National Tourist Corporation immediately, as an economic society for this branch of economic activity and there is no need to leave the possibility of ex post assessments of the Government, which is also interchangeable to other variable thinking. That is why I feel it is necessary to accept Mrs Zlata Djeric's amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18893	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Arsen Đuric and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 31st amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party, have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Proposal for a tourism law. This amendment envisions funding for tourism organisations to promote tourism from the funding of local self-government units. Namely, Vrnjak Carnival is part of Vrnjačka Banja's tourist offer, which exceeds the Balkan frameworks. In eight days, over 200,000 visitors pass through Vrnjačka Banja, of which 10,000 foreigners. The carnival process consists of over 100 groups, of which 50 groups from Italy, Brazil, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and all the republics of the former Yugoslavia. How much Vrnjačka Carnival and Vrnjačka Banja's tourist potential are appreciated in European frameworks, the fact that Vrnjačka Banja will host the World Carnival City Congress in 2011. "Vrnjak Karneval" as a event has been organized for years back by enthusiasm and the knowledge of employees at the tourist center, the good domestic relationship of all Vrnjecans, but also by understanding and means of local self-government, which reconciles over 80% of the costs of the organization. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry in the past two years have literally not singled out a single dinar for the Vrnjak Carnival. I think "Vernjak Carnival" next to Gucci and Exit deserves to be a state-level event. With the appeal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is following the Vrnjak Carnival more strongly financially and medialy, I urge you to accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18895	Based on article 85, I interrupt work for an hour. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon part of the session, with discussion in particular, according to the amendment to Article 33, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Svetlana Stojanović and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18897	Article 33. The proposal for a tourism law is defined by the Serbian Tourist Organisation. That is what the point 2) says – Serbia's Tourist Organisation is coordinating the activities of tourism organisations, businesses and other tourism entities that act directly and indirectly to promote tourism. The DSS MPs have tabled an amendment proposing co-ordination between the Serbian Tourist Organisation and the cultural institutions. The reason for which we have submitted such an amendment is our deep belief that cultural tourism needs to be developed in Serbia, and cultural tourism cannot be developed without the coordination of tourism organisations, local self-government and business entities with the institutions of culture. The government did not accept the amendment, I quote: "because cultural institutions are covered by the broader term 'other entities in tourism', so that the solution given in the proposed amendment is already contained in Article 33 paragraph 1 of the Law proposal. "This is the government's explanation of its relationship to culture. Culture for the Government is a broad term – and other entities in tourism. A poor country that treats culture as other subjects! We suggest that MPs vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18898	Before we continue my work, I shall inform the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work even after 1800 hours of debate at the point that is on the agenda at that time, and with television transmission after 1800 hours of broadcasting in a delayed period. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18899	On Article 33, point 5, DSS MPs have submitted another amendment that we propose that after the words "cultural events", they add the words "and the possibility of visiting cultural monuments". The government did not accept this amendment, with an explanation ''because the possibility of a tour of cultural monuments is contained in the research of cultural events as a broader concept. ''Researching cultural events is not the same as exploring and visiting cultural monuments. Cultural events are festivals, as well as other events held occasionally. Cultural monuments stand where they are, constantly, within the tourist space. Culture is reclassified in the Tourism Act and secondly, this status of culture is not only in the Tourism Act but in the entire policy of this and this government. As the government treats Serbian cultural heritage and our cultural identity, so protects both the territorial integrity of the state and other vital interests of Serbia! Her priorities are upside down, and there is no responsibility to her own people. I suggest that Members of Parliament accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18900	The 35th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after not four years of age, we have a new tourism law again. I appreciate that my fellow MPs wanted their amendments to correct the text themselves, to regulate the law, to take their objections from their point of view, regardless of which political parties they were from. However, the government can also propose to us the best law in the world, we can such a best law and adopt, not a problem in laws, not a problem in the National Assembly, but a problem in those who enforce the law. It seems to me that Serbia is dominated by a small political party that is not behind the people's will, at least not needed and qualified for the political party to have so much power in Serbia to control every pore of life, to control all financial flows in Serbia. I will only do so on a few occasions, when it comes to the Serbian Tourist Organisation, to try to prove that my claim is absolutely correct. The Serbian tourist organisation has its deputy director, a certain Mrs. Vesna Radisavljevic. When someone says -- deputy director, probably no one thinks it's something terrible, so it is, because Serbia's Tourist Organization does not have a deputy director in its system. He tried the board of directors to systematicize the job, but he still doesn't have the government's consent, and Mrs. Wesna is working as a deputy, and she's getting paid for it. And that wouldn't be terrible. The problem is that G17, as a political party proposed by Ms. Vesna Radisavljevic as deputy director, has no desire to work for citizens and the state in any part of the life of the Republic of Serbia. Tourism is a business, but a business in which businesses dealing with tourism, not the government, government members or bodies at the government, but not in favour of the government, but in favour of tourism as their own business in which they should earn, and to the harm of both citizens and businesses. Mrs. Vesna Radisavljevic has since the post of deputy director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation in her private printing press of all publications printed by the Serbian Tourist Organisation. And that's a little bit! However, all more serious companies dealing with tourism must, in order not to be pressured, forced and threatened, print all their brochures and publications in its private printing works. Come on, let's say it's business and that someone should make and I don't agree and I don't justify it, it's crime, and it's supposed to be responsible for it, but what about the fact that, let's say, once again under pressure, a publication called "52 weekends in Serbia" is printed, so the motives in the municipalities are mixed with the text in that brochure. I'm going to say, and you're free to check, where there's a text about Big City, there's motives from the municipality of Golubac. The Great City Hall, ladies and gentlemen, except that it's on the Danube, has nothing to do with the Gerdupian cliss, and it has such motives. As far as Golupac is concerned, there are motives in his text from Big City, so round, probably from the municipality to the municipality. To print this publication, the money of the Serbian Tourist Organisation has been thrown away! The press by the deputy director and printer, Vesna Radisavljevic, did not damage Serbia's Tourist Organisation, which paid for the printing of one such list. Furthermore, when it comes to the Serbian Tourist Organisation, whose board of directors, according to this bill, should in the most part be drawn up on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question – and why has not at any international tourism fair our Tourist Organisation of Serbia performed uniquely with the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Our Serbian Tourist Organization performed without Kosovo! And it's a serious observation not only of us politicians, but of professionals who deal with tourism. When it comes to our tourist organization, at all international booth fairs, our stands were organised by Slovenians. Thank you very much, many who have seen these stands have ordered – we better not have taken part in these fairs as we were! It seems here that the desire is that through the Tourist Organisation of Serbia, through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, all those subsidies that we have allocated from the budget and which are intended for the development of tourism are fully controlled by one politician, these remain around it, tiny, to scratch a bit, such as Vesna Radisavljevic, and the real master in Serbia is no one but Mladjan Dinkic. I think that this government, in these times too, should understand that its role is to work in the interests of citizens, to work in the interests of the state, and not to let individuals, to the harm of citizens and to the harm of the state, work only for themselves and for their own pocket! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18902	The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Babic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 38a be added after article 38a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Proposal for a tourism law. This amendment envisions the establishment of regional tourism organisations for the territory of administrative districts. The reason for accepting this amendment exists in the fact that, at the time of the global economic crisis, there is a particular need to streamline costs and maximum savings, and we can do this in part through the regionalisation of tourism promotion. The Raški administrative district, from which I come, is part of Serbia with a very diverse tourist offer – from the far-known skiing on Kopalnik, and lately on Goč and Golia, through pilgrimage tourism Žica, Studenica and the monastery of the world of Friday, through famous events such as "Vrnjak karnaval" and "Veseli ibarski downhill", all the way to health tourism, old ladies of tourism, Joshanic, Bogtovačka, Mataruska and of course, the largest and most beautiful Vrnjačka Banja. In these spas, especially in Vrnjačka Banja, strong investment in preventive health tourism, wellness and aqua centres, sports facilities, the age structure of visitors has changed and rejuvenated. Such administrative districts and regions deserve a joint promotion and perform through regional tourism organisations and therefore I call on you to accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18904	Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18905	The DSS MPs have tabled an amendment proposing that local self-government units be dealt with and organised by gatherings that will examine the use of cultural monuments for tourist purposes. He says: 'Amendment is not accepted because it is not legal-technically possible, because point 6 refers to the organisation of gatherings and events that do not include the circumnavigation of cultural monuments. "The legislator makes the same logical mistake as in Article 33, which we have already submitted to the amendment. Cultural gatherings and manifestations are immaterial cultural goods, and the amendment proposes gatherings that would deal with scientific research using cultural monuments for tourist purposes. These would be scientific trade symposias, which would contribute to the development of cultural tourism. We do not see why it is not technically possible to organise meetings that would handle the topic – the use of cultural monuments for tourist purposes? There are countless problems in this area. Even if such gatherings were organized every day, we couldn't solve them all. Too bad they're legally impossible. I suggest you vote for this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18906	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18907	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the hall of this Parliament is half-empty, it is indeed a great interest for people who believe that local communities and administrations should leave what is in their jurisdiction, and it is a matter of sustainable development of tourism, because in this way they also see a solution to their terrible economic and social problems, and therefore they think that, given the lack of a concrete strategy from the central level, they are also affecting concrete regional development within the state of Serbia. That's how we got a few examples, one of them's from Arangelovec and the other one's about the Ovcar-Cablar ravine. It is about people who are members and activists of the SRS, and all those who are interested, of course, in preserving cultural heritage and in the right way using cultural monuments that are devastated. This is specifically about the collapse of Milos Obrenovic's debt, and in meeting to celebrate 150 years of the Arandelovo municipality, which struggles with all means to solve the problem of the destruction of this precious asset by this very important date. It is about the Old Building, which is one of the most famous examples of Serbian architecture of romance, therefore, the building of Prince Mikhail Obrenović and the last nemara work of Kosta Šreplović, a tragic builder, associate and friend of renowned Czech architect Jan Nevola. It is similar to Captain Mišina's building in Belgrade, the Old Building, in the magical park of Bukovica Banje, through its duration, changed its appearance, resisting the tooth of time, until the turning point of the century, when its fate became one of the most tragic signs of the material culture of the Serbian people. This building has no roof, it's gone down, it's abandoned, and it's fueled. The old building became a symbol of our spiritual poverty, carelessness, and moral humiliation. What is a request, not only for people who participate in the work of the SRS, but for all the inhabitants of Arangelovac and all those who are responsible enough for Serbian cultural and spiritual heritage, is to do all that is necessary and what is possible to bring back the old glow to this building, which I believe that everyone will agree that it is of exceptional importance for the Arandelovac, of exceptional importance to the Shumadi and of great importance to the entire state of Serbia. Why? Because this concrete example and concrete investment, which for the state of Serbia and should not mean much, would show a relationship to what our historical heritage is, according to the borrowing. Today, tomorrow, some of us will also think of leaving behind those who come behind a building as a symbol of one existence and a possible place of generation gathering, which will once again put themselves into the foundations and history and spirituality and culture, in the broadest sense of that word, and the worst thing that can happen to all of us is that the state ignores every similar attempt. Otherwise, we think it's an inadmissible relationship to cultural monuments, which should be proud of one nation. We hope that they will take priority, if not these authorities, and then certainly some responsible authorities, which will in a special way, with a huge historical responsibility, address Serbia's intellectual, cultural, spiritual and religious capacity and potential. What does that mean? It may not mean much to generations that are now standing up and facing daily existential problems, trying to provide themselves with mental health, and to survive one day in the state of Serbia and in this senselessness, but it will certainly mean for those generations of better Serbian citizens, who will apparently be able to get on the right, objective, unhindered way to appreciate all that some minds and significant people have left behind. What is totally unacceptable is that, according to everything that carries the Serbian attributes or attributes of any nation or nation or national minority that has yet been branded by the state of Serbia as its mother by its lack of respect. So, sooner we embrace what comes to us from some other cultures, to raise it to pedestal, than we will cultivate what generations before us led to perfection. When it comes to this debate in particular and in principle, people who are gravitating the Ovčar-Cablar cuneiform, whether with or without intent, sometimes when they want to escape from the civil touch, have provided us with information, which is of great importance, just reminders, that there is indeed an extraordinary spiritual potential in this clisure, which should serve the state of Serbia as a tourist resort if it ever thinks it should develop this branch of extremely significant tourism, which the entire civilized world recognized, but Serbia with a medieval and so long tradition, unfortunately, is not. It is more recognizable between the rest and by the monasteries, which, thank God, are in greater numbers restored than Fruska Gora, but we think it is totally inadmissible and that even in Fruska Gora it must be invested. These monasteries have about a dozen, they're concentrated in a small space. Someone long before us thought there were very significant spiritual, cultural, historical points around which the Serb people turned to assembly are to gather, move from there and rise there. However, despite the fact that there are exceptional conditions for tourism development, what are basic shortcomings to invest in, these are accommodation facilities, all 70 beds in three facilities, so that in the case of larger groups there are no conditions for joint accommodation. That's a special question. So there are interests, there is an opportunity to organise, but there is no capacity to support something that should be for a particular region, for a particular area, and it concerns tens of thousands of residents of the area and ultimately, the state of Serbia. So, the managing authority or the state at the central has no hearing. Today we are talking about a proposal for a tourism law, which should give one man so much responsibility to improve tourism. It is absolutely unclear to us in which way, with which financial resources, the resorient ministry will succeed, firstly, to restore what has been devastated, and in particular, how it will convince all of us that everything that has not worked for years thinks to do in the next few years. I would really like to see all the Dukes who will be overjoyed by the fact that Fruska Gora is restored and that Fruska Gora is what should be the beacon of a beautiful part of Serbia. Unfortunately, there has been no investment in Frusko Gore for years, for no reason whatsoever, without any justification. We know that there were interests, we know that there were certain projects, but we know when you enter any of the Frushkogorian monastery's legs fail through which it is completely devastated. It's just one example. What about traffic, what about infrastructure, and what about all of us? This is what tells us about the next one – there is no development strategy in the state of Serbia, and if there is one, then there is a problem in the plan for the implementation of these strategies. What it is is a true picture and opportunity, is that the state of Serbia is failing in someone's false promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18908	The 39th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Dragan Šormaz. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill's draft. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 45. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has submitted to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 72nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18909	Dear Vice President, Mrs Matic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it unacceptable for Minister Dinkic not to attend today's debate on details when it comes to such an important law. I am sure, in particular, I can sign that the distinguished Mrs Matic will not react until the end of the debate and accept any amendment. I must also point out that there has been good co-operation and understanding by the Government of the DSS Group, because a large number of essential amendments to this law have been adopted and in this way we have really qualifiedly improved this law. The one where there is no cooperation and that understanding, is this particular area that regulates catering services in domestic work. In this amendment, we have tried to change Article 72, which reads: 'The physical person can provide tourist catering services for accommodation, preparing and serving meals in the house, apartment and room of which he owns in accommodation facilities up to 30 beds. ''The amendment that we have submitted as DSS requires that a part of this member who is related to the preparation of food or the provision of services in rooms or apartments be deleted, but it is obvious that in his explanation the government did not understand our intention in the right way because he says it would make it impossible for natural persons to provide catering services in domestic work. Our intensity was the opposite, that rural tourist households have the opportunity to prepare food in their facilities precisely from those products that they themselves produce in that household. If such a provision remains, we believe that the possibility of abuse from individual persons engaged in tourist activity would arise, that this would inevitably lead to the preparation of food for third parties who are not guests of their pensions and their facilities, but would come from the side of their services and the fact that the tourist inspection will not be able to carry out adequate control of all these facilities and in the right way prevent such an operation. Since the next amendment I'm going to talk about is closely related to this, I just want to be attached to the presentation of my colleague Ragush. In addition to the 'little St. Gora' in Fruška Gora, which preys on its tourist beauty, I must also highlight all the beauty of cultural and historical values and the natural beauty of the 'Serb St. Gora', which is the Ovčarsko-Cablarska gorge which has a lot to offer both to domestic and foreign guests. Cacacka Tourist Organisations will certainly try to open the door even more and attract more tourists into this beauty of ours, because what can be seen there can really be proud and rarely which part of Serbia has such a spiritual, cultural and historical wealth [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18910	National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18911	The amendment to Article 73 is closely linked to the amendment we have submitted to the previous article. In the first two attitudes, we do not touch on certain obligations of the competent authorities and institutions to carry out health checks, all those controls needed to provide the hygiene and sanitary conditions that are necessary for a household to deal with tourist activity, but the fact is that in many tourist centres in Serbia that provide certain services there are no adequate conditions. By deleting Article 3, it would practically be brought into line with the preceding Article 72 and in a comprehensive way regulate this matter. In this amendment, we want to prevent persons who do not have registered catering activities from misusing the proposed members and thus, by providing services to third parties, from misusing the rights that this law gives them. The best example of how it works is certainly one of the most beautiful destinations in Serbia, and this is our beautiful Zlatibor, where one serious local self-government and professional professionals from the tourist organization show the best way to do and represent the right example for all other tourist workers in Serbia, so I think there is much to learn from them. If these amendments were to be adopted, I think they would be brought into line with these legal provisions, which are envisaged and will contribute much better to the development of rural tourism in Serbia above all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18912	The 77th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18913	The Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 77 defining the area of rural tourism. The proposed law states that a natural person providing catering services in a rural tourist home can issue his facilities through a local tourist organisation, a tourist agency or a company based on a contract. We have proposed our amendment to add – or through a tourist association based on the territory of the household. We have submitted this amendment for the reason that tourist agencies are not interested enough, unfortunately, to deal with the issue of this type of capacity in rural tourism, so that households dealing with rural tourism are practically left to themselves and manage themselves for guests. This is not enough so that they can function and achieve revenues according to their capabilities, so we suggested that this issue be carried out under the same conditions and on the basis of contracts, and if there is a fiscalisation of tourist agencies, and through fiscal accounts, and through an association that will be established in the territory and local community where this household is located. I really expected the government and the ministry to accept this amendment, which is why it is not accepted. When I spoke in the debate in the principle of the Tourism Law proposal, I mentioned the example of the Tchaitin municipality, where I came from. We have established nine tourist associations in nine rural local communities and over 500 bearings categorized for rural tourism. Indeed, in addition to local self-government, which invests significant resources in the development of infrastructure in these rural local communities and a tourist organisation that educates households engaged in rural tourism and shares incentives and subsidies for rural tourism development, these tourist associations make a great contribution and help to households involved in rural tourism. On this occasion, I would like to give another example which is also an argument for accepting this amendment, it is the Kosjeric municipality. In fact, the municipality of Kosjeric is one of the first municipalities in Serbia where rural tourism has practically started to develop. In the villages of Milica, Razana, Seca Reka, Rosic, a large number of households deal with rural tourism, and in conversation with these people we learned that they also have problems issuing their capacities because agencies are not interested in this issue. I think that, in this context, this amendment should accept and allow rural households and all interested persons to establish their associations and to issue their capacities through them under the conditions prescribed by this law. So I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18914	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dejan Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new Chapter Va and members 79a, 79b and 79v. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which proposed that a new chapter "VII Hunt-tourism work" be added after Article 87 and new members of 87a, 87b, 87v, 87g, 87d and 87d. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanović and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18915	Article 104 has only one brief position that determines the obligation to pay the tourist fee for the benefit of the tourist resort. The unquestionable convenience of the tourist resort is the existence of protected monuments of culture. The DSS MPs have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of another position in Article 104, which introduces the obligation of a special payment method when protected monuments of culture are located in the tourist space. Since we advocate the sharing of responsibility between tourism organisations, cultural institutions, local self-government and economic operators managing tourist space, we advocate that the compensation for the use of convenience is shared in relatively assumed responsibilities. Culture, architecture, urbanism, education, sport, economy, agriculture, craftsmanship and tourism must work closely together to develop tourism while at the same time ensuring greater employment, better quality of life for local people and resources for the restoration and maintenance of cultural monuments that represent the convenience of a particular tourist destination. The purpose of the proposed amendment is that, as much as each of the mentioned entities contributes to the development of tourism, it also relatively receives from the paid tourist compensation. The amendment makes even more sense after the budget rebalances have been adopted, which has significantly reduced funds for the ongoing activities of cultural institutions. The amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to Articles 106 and 107. The bill, but the proposed amendment not only does it not conflict with the Articles 106 and 107, but precises them. The Minister of Tourism determines the amount of tourist compensation, and by adopting our amendment, the Ministerial Will would not be completely discretionary – the law would at least be a little limited in the domain of cultural tourism. We suggest you vote for this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18916	National MPs Milos Radulovic and Donka Banovic together submitted an amendment to article 107. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18917	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that the resolution minister is not present today to hear our arguments, and I am convinced that he might accept them, as well as some of our amendments. For the sake of the public, I will also explain this amendment submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group to the 107th of this law. The amendment refers to a tourist fee. Namely, units of local self-government are expected to prescribe the amount of tourist compensation for the use of the convenience to perform the work on the territory of the tourist resort. The applicable law provides for a provision under the applicable law that income in the territory of the unit of local self-government is 80% the income of the unit budget and local self-government, and 20% the income of the Republic's budget. We have proposed that this relationship, or distribution of funds, be maintained at 80:20, except in underdeveloped municipalities where we have suggested that 100% of the income from the tourist compensation be the income of the unit of local self-government. There are more reasons to accept this amendment, because unfortunately, in Serbia, we have many underdeveloped municipalities that have extremely modest budgets and are unable to invest in tourism infrastructure and structure in general from these modest financial resources, so these 20% that go into the Republic of Serbia's budget would remain undeveloped municipalities, which would be extremely significant to them. The funds could certainly be invested in the development of tourism infrastructure and structure in general, thus creating better conditions for attracting different investors to investment in tourism, and thus could be a small, modest contribution for these municipalities to come out of the order of undeveloped municipalities. I'm going to mention an example that's in the Zlatibor County. It is a municipality of Priboj, which has an extremely modest budget and which is extremely damaged by the 2009 transfer funds, and on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj there is an extremely attractive tourist destination, Pribojska Banja, which has extremely great tourist potentials. I mean, in particular, in the Priboj municipality, if this amendment were accepted, that the tourist fee goes to 100% of the local self-government units, it would be very important for the further development of Pribojska Banja and the entire municipality of Priboj, so I urge you once again to accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18918	Members of the 107th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18919	The payment of tickets for the tour of monuments of culture, museums, archaeological sites and other cultural attractions cannot be the basis for the release from the obligation to pay the tourist fee. This is the amendment submitted by the DSS to Article 107, proposing adding item 4: "The funds for the payment of tickets for the tour of monuments of culture, museums, archaeological sites do not even cover the costs that tourists have for their use for tourist purposes. "Because the position of the 3rd member of 107 speaks of who does not pay a tourist fee for the use of natural and cultural goods, which are economic operators and organisations that manage protected natural and cultural goods, and already charge compensation for their use, by submitting this amendment, we wanted to make sure that the payment of tickets is not considered to be paid. The amendment is not accepted because Article 105 is Article 5. The bill required by the minister's obligation to prescribe closer conditions for the release of the obligation to pay the tourist fee. By adopting this amendment, we would help the minister. I suggest you vote for him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18920	Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 108, with a desire to bridge one indifference, which is absolutely present in this law in Article 108, where the penals for the use of the priority tourism organisation are foreseen. I am completely surprised that the government did not accept this amendment, given that it would not essentially change what the government wanted this law to achieve, but would certainly introduce some order when it comes to this law, and above all, it would prevent the minister from having discretionary rights, in practice, that with one terrible two million-euro penalty, it could affect the whole law and make some unfair competition, so it would all be in his hands. On behalf of New Serbia, I submitted this amendment in article 108rd position "200,000 euros in dinar equivalent after the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment" are replaced by "50,000 to 200,000 dinars". Also, I gave an explanation about it. Depending on the type of facility and location where the facility is located in a priority tourist organization, there is a need for foams to be expressed differently, because it is important to express them within a certain range. It would be appropriate for the Ministry to adopt a special act on the identification of foams for the use of priority destinations. It is unacceptable for any monetary amount to be shown in euros in the law of the Republic of Serbia. The national currency is a dinar and in all legal acts all amounts must be expressed in dinar value. My amendment predicts a range in that penalty of 50,000 to 200,000 dinars, because, well known thing is right, that if someone makes mistakes, there's always a facilitating circumstance, so, let's say, there's a range of 50,000 to 200,000 dinars. So the message through this amendment is to show it in dinars. The minister, as set out in paragraph 3, is making a solution that, given the penalties, determines the obligation to pay a penal at an annual level of 22,000 euros in dinar equivalent at the heart rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment. In view of this legal possibility as predicted, if this assembly votes the law, it is fully introduced, in my opinion, one mess at several levels. Let's just say, a few days ago, we passed the Law of Court Taxes. It is totally unacceptable, firstly, that the fees during this difficult period have been raised by 50%. Why, then, if this principle is introduced everywhere in the euro's dinar equivalent, it didn't happen in the euro, so we'd avoid the possibility that next time we're changing here all the time? We had an excuse from the government's representatives that the cost of living in the meantime since the last cab pick-up, when it comes to court fees, is 40%. I ask, why do these extra 10% -- do they make up for what hasn't been done in the meantime? The government doesn't think at all about what's going to happen, and with such large court fees that were big until the vote of this law, people are practically prevented from being tried, but we've seen certain executives trying to stop someone from starting a work dispute, to get a company into bankruptcy, to influence judicial authority, to do anything. They can do anything and no one wonders what we're going to do if there are fewer court cases, what about so many judges in that situation. And what we are going to do, for what is most dangerous for one society, if someone cannot legally exercise their right in court proceedings – people take matters into their own hands, because it is unacceptable for someone to have court fees so large that it cannot be supported, if they include legal services, then it turns out, which often happens, that what you are asking for in these costs is much more, and when one day you want to charge or the judicial executives are very slow and in principle it is never realized. I think it's unacceptable, to just talk about the euro in a country where the dinar is a means of payment. I ask the question, is someone at the grocery store right now, at a gas station, in a grocery store, in a restaurant, if he offers to pay the Euros, and if the inspection catches a man like that, does that man have to be punished? What does that mean if in one legislative regulation we have that the minister is authorized, that he has the discretion to punish someone two million euros in dinar countervalue per middle rate on the day of payment?- I'm sorry. We can't play with things like this! It's unacceptable that they're different arches. It's all completely absurd. That's why I really expected the government to accept this amendment, and there's still time to fix it, so this assembly can vote it out. What is particularly unacceptable is that there is no range in punishment, because this way we will never be able to determine whether or not someone has had any expedient circumstances that might have caused a breach, even if they were to be punished, but not so discreetly, that the minister can punish as much as he wants, but that there are some lenient circumstances that would allow someone less punishment and, eventually, these penalties will drive out all those who want to invest anything in tourism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18922	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18923	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I will no longer report for the word, for the sake of the public, I would like to say that the five amendments submitted by the DSS Group have been accepted and that I am pleased to express that, by accepting these amendments, the proposed text of the law has been corrected. First of all, I am referring to an amendment relating to regional tourism organisations. The proposal for a tourism law was designed to prevent regional tourism organisations from being set up. It is true that only one regional tourist organisation currently exists in Serbia, which is the Western Serbia Tourist Organisation, based in Užica. This regional tourism organisation is functioning extremely well and it would be a shame to prevent this law from continuing its business, and in the process of forming several more regional tourism organisations in Serbia and we felt that it should be possible for municipalities to establish regional tourism organisations if they have interests and thus promote their common tourist product. The amendments concerning the financing of local tourism organisations and tourist organisations of the AP and amendments relating to the control and payment of residence fees have also been accepted, where we have proposed that the municipal authorities responsible for tax transactions, i.e. the collection of municipal revenues, can also control the payment and payment of residence fees. To Article 109. The DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment, in fact, to Article 108 and Article 109 refer to penalties for the use of a priority tourist destination. According to the Bill of Law, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, adopts an act to declare a priority tourist destination and determines the zones and locations and categories of objects located on the territory and the priority tourist destination. Economic operators operating in the territory of priority tourist destinations are obliged to coordinate their categories within two years of the date of entry into force of the government's act, otherwise they are obliged to pay for a twom-euro per-year penalty. Here I agree with my colleague, Spasojevic, that it is perfectly logical that this amount is expressed in dinar value and I really do not understand why its amendment has not been accepted. What our amendment refers to is the distribution of these funds. The bill stipulates that these funds are 100% of the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we have proposed with our amendment that these funds be 50% of the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and 50% of the income of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the facility is located, i.e. the priority tourist destination. We believe that these are significant funds for the municipalities on which these facilities are located and, of course, that the amendment is accepted with the obligation of the municipality to continue to use these funds for the further purpose of developing tourism infrastructure and tourism superstructures. I believe that these funds would be significant to municipalities in Serbia, because it is a million-euro equivalent amount. This would be the municipality's income, and these are significant funds that they could significantly improve infrastructure and their entire tourist offer. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18924	Members of the 111th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18925	Article 111 of Article 2 provides that tourist agencies – travel tour organizers and tourist agencies – are to be registered in the Register of Tourism. The DSS MPs have tabled an amendment suggesting that tourist resort managers be introduced into the Tourism Register. Tourist agencies – organizers and tourist agencies – intermediaries organize tourist trips and promote a tourist product. Tourist space managers are responsible for how to use tourist space and tourist offer, so it is good to find themselves in the tourist register, especially since it happens in practice that tourist space is managed by several entities, cultural institutions, local self-government, economic operators. The amendment is not accepted because it is not acceptable in a legal and technical sense, because it requires the addition of other members of the bill, as well as because tourist space managers are determined by the government act published in "The Official Messenger of Serbia". The government's reasoning is not acceptable because it is not impossible, it is not even unusual to carry out legal-technical editorials of other members of the law after an amendment has been adopted in the National Assembly. Secondly, the fact that the managers of the tourist space are determined by the government act and published in "The Official Messenger of Serbia" only facilitates work, can be automatically entered into the Tourist Register. This argument raises doubts that the government does not want a clear and easy insight into which all entities manage certain tourist areas. I suggest you vote for this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18926	Members of the 111th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18927	I thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, the DSS has submitted to Article 111 of the amendment, which provides for cultural monuments to be recorded in the Register of Tourism, but before I say anything about the amendment, I must join in one debate with the question – why is there no resolution minister present here? So it can be concluded that he is not interested in this law. It's a misrepresentation of the Assembly. We are witnessing, the public of Serbia and this assembly, that this is not the first time that people whose profession and profession do not have much touch with the bill, with all the respect of Ms Matic as Minister of Telecommunications appear as well. We are witnesses, the public of Serbia and this assembly, that this is not the first time that people whose profession and profession do not have a lot of touch points with the bill appear as viewers in front of the government. With all this respect, Ms Matic as Minister of Telecommunications, but we have raised a number of important questions here, to which we have no answer, nor can Minister Matic give us an answer to these questions. We basically don't have a government in the right sense of that word. We've made sure of that a few times before. In this country it is decided, always from one place, which is the cabinet of the President of the Republic, and personally the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. As for the amendments, is it not normal for cultural monuments to be found in one of the tourist destinations? The reason why this amendment has been rejected is more than ridiculous – the amendment is not accepted because the Register relating to cultural goods, which includes cultural monuments, is governed by a special law. We say okay, okay, that's good, but isn't that making it easier? If you already have that in one place, why isn't it included in this tourism law? Has anyone seen that the offer for one destination only lists the catering facilities without cultural goods? Find me an example in the world that such a thing exists. What it means is that when a tourist starts, with all possible catering facilities, if he asks if there are cultural monuments at that destination, e, ask the Ministry of Culture. It's completely pointless for this member of the law without this correction. I call on all MPs to vote on this amendment in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18928	On Article 111 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of Serbia, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 111 of this law, which reads: "Article 111 paragraph 3) point 5) the word "uncategorated" is deleted. ''The reason I asked for this amendment to be deleted, I explained in the following way: It is unacceptable to speak in this article of the law about untegorized catering facilities, i.e. certain objects of nautical tourism, because those words are not mentioned in Articles 68 and 69 of this Law. It is important to respect the rules on classification, minimum conditions and categories of catering facilities. If order is to be introduced into such an important business activity as tourism, then care must be taken of terminology, which can unwarrantedly apply in the law lead to wrong interpretation of the law. Once again, in the end, since I have no more amendments to this part of the law and, in general, on this legislative proposal, I must express my dissatisfaction that the resolution minister is not here, because surely, in order to have perhaps a better opportunity, to draw closer to some views through the debate in particular and, perhaps, there is a possibility that, at the last minute, amendments that are good will be accepted. It is another drawback, when we have debates like this, that the resolution ministers are not there, but at least it is the minister who attends. I don't think we should let anything like this happen in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18930	On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted the amendment, with a correction, to Article 111 which the Government had adopted, as well as the Legislative Committee, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18931	Article 112 speaks of supervision and is entrusted to the Ministry of Tourism through tourist inspectors. The amendment submitted by the DSS MPs suggests adding a new member to oversee the application of this law in a work that regulates the use of monuments of culture and cultural goods, both material and immaterial, to the inspectors of the culture ministry. Protection of immovable, mobile cultural goods requires special knowledge that tourist inspectors simply cannot possess. We therefore propose that this type of surveillance is carried out by the inspectors of the Ministry of Culture, and that the tourism ministry inspectors supervise the law in general, and taking into account the findings of the Ministry of Culture's inspector. – The amendment is not accepted because supervision for the implementation of laws governing cultural goods is governed by a special law. Before that, our amendment is involved, the provisions of this special law should also be introduced into the tourism law, in order to be consistently implemented, and their purpose in terms of tourism and culture. I suggest that MPs accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18932	Members of the 112st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 115 of the amendment, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Article 115, which the Government has adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to Article 115. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 118 of the amendment, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 118. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 119 by the Government, which the Legislative Committee considers legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted the amendment, with a correction, to Rule 119, which the Government has adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to article 119. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Article 120, which the Government has adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The National MP Bojana Stanojevic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to Article 121. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Rule 121, which the Government has adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Bojana Stanojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in detail, do the representatives of the Proposer want a final word on the details? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 26th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Employment and Security Act, given that points 26 and 27 were the subject of the National Assembly's vote on a united debate, the time for parliamentary groups for these two laws is a united time. The authorised representatives shall remain as in the case of a debate in principle, unless the president of the parliamentary group or the deputy president of the parliamentary group replaces the authorised representative from the debate in principle. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nikola Krpić, Milisav Petrović, Đorđe Milićevic, Miletić Mihajlović, Saša Dujović, Zoran Kasalović, Jovan Palalić, together Jovan Palalić and Milan Lapčemović, Goran Mihajlović, Mirko Mužić, Milan M. Nikolić, Vitomir Plužarić, Sreto Perić, Nikola Žutić, Marina Tomanić, Dragan Aćimović, Srbojub Živanovic, Dobrislav Prelić, Milorad Buha, Marko Milenković, Vesna Marić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Ljubanović, Ljubjan Dragović, Žaljan Martinović, Vjerica Radetojković, Vladja Milojković, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Krastić, Milorad Krstić, Milorad Vrović, Milorad Vrjan Vović, Milić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić, Slava Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žović, Žaljan Žović, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljanović, Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Vrić, Vr. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18933	Does that apply to Article 1, I didn't hear you read it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18934	Yes, an amendment to article 1 submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I saw you were registered in the application system, so I called you. You don't have to if there's an error in the system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18935	Mrs. Komic, the accuracy of the work, the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, which we are now talking about? Thank you. It is startled by the fact that there is no resolution minister present, who has convinced the entire Serbian public that so many areas he has placed under his portfolio will arrange and implement the entire reform change system in all these areas, especially when we talk about employment and unemployment insurance. The lack of an authorised proposing representative should be a clear message to the Serbian public that even an authorised proposing absolutely does not care in what way he will possibly be able to overcome the obstacles that will be put before him, which even if the representatives of the people who have been given the mandate, in the May elections, may represent them. Or, Mr Dinkic absolutely does not understand the importance of the functions of the most legislative authority in one country, he does not care, since he probably has himself convinced himself that he can very well rule over everything he has put under his jurisdiction. However, what should be, we hope, is clearly a fact – I guess Mr Dinkic is also aware that at the end of the global financial crisis in the country of Serbia will, on the one hand, be able to pay, and on the other hand, Mr Boris Tadic, who has repeatedly assured us that he is the one who unwinds Gordi's knot when resolute ministers cannot, obtain gas when it cannot be obtained, influences the functioning of Parliament by saying that 250 MPs are indeed all that is happening in Parliament, the relationship of the executive power towards Parliament, assures that we are slowly, but surely, skating into a single-party system, in which decisions will be made only in one centre of power, in a system that does not care what the people think and in the system of which the opposition is completely unnecessary and all institutions of the system are completely unnecessary. Let me remind you, Broz had a naked island, and Serbia seems to be becoming one man's Gulag, slowly but surely. When the time comes these two gentlemen mentioned will likely, knowingly, pay the bill of the whole crisis, not the reform course, the completely wrong economic policy and the irresponsible government. However, to continue where I left off, the SRS indicated a number of months ago, in fact, the alarm, when it came to the financial crisis that had already threatened to spill over to the state of Serbia and at the end of last year, during October, November and December, we asked certain, concrete questions before the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in front of Mr Rasim Ljajic, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as the Ministry of Trade. As you can see, we have been trying to through one parliamentary question, using the Institute of the then Rules of Procedure which allowed very important and important life issues, such as keeping a job, employment of an increasing number of people who were left out of work, to be brought to Parliament's agenda, which apparently put this on the margins of the most significant social events. Just because we've been in contact with our voters and field activists every day, these are people who fall into that slowly disappearing working class, we've come up with some data that a solid number of companies, unfortunately, will fire a large number of workers. The media wrote about it at the end of last year. We didn't want to sound panicky, because the media was completely under regime control, or control of a single centre of power, the real shadow prime minister, Mr Tadic, launched a media campaign against the SRS, and we wanted responsiblely to approach a very important problem, such as a policy of employment in the light of the financial crisis, i.e. a crisis that stepped well into the state of Serbia and wanted to get finally official state data. So how many people, on the basis of which companies are left out of work, how does the state think they employ these people and solve their existential problems and, on the other hand, since they've already seen the nominal fall in monthly earnings, how does the state guarantee that this level of the growth rate will be slightly followed by the nominal amount of earnings? We have received specific answers that are now radically changing again because the situation has been completely changed. To remind you, this is because of the public in Serbia, the resolute minister is not present, Ms Matic certainly cannot answer these questions, but one day the public will ask Mr Dinkic this, similar and tenfold more questions, say, what would the privatisation, where the funds from the privatisation funds have gone, and what of the economic and social security of all citizens of the Serbian state, with the economic recovery of the Serbian state, with the reform course?- I'm sorry. Therefore, it will all be questions that Mr Dinkic will eventually have to answer. At that time, we were given as a notice, therefore, an official state response, that based on an analysis of the available data in November 2008, there were registered or announced cancellations of the labour contract, to a greater extent, the consequence or identification of surplus employees in social enterprises who were in the process of restructuring and preparation for privatisation, and that privatisation, I must remind you, has made many Serbian state cities sick by shutting down many of the companies that supported these cities, workers remain at the mercy and mercy of the people who privatised the businesses, chasing the most often property and the others are left with only one option – to draw attention to the inability of survival, which is the street. As you can see, they radicalized their demands, unfortunately. The demands are very brutally presented to the executives. We have Mr Ljajic who understands the growing problem and understands the situation that the government will not be able to deal with the social rebellion without proper social dialogue, which means that the government has no solution for what it knows is coming, and that is the wave of protests to social unrest. We were then informed that, on this first basis, without a job, the workers of Viskoza, Zlatare Majdanpek, "Prah's production of fertilizer', "Iris" Prepolje, "The flag of cars", "Gosa", "Shamot" Arangelovac, JAT, and then, on the second basis, the establishment of surplus employees in privatisation companies, in order to release new surplus employees. It's the continuity of firing workers. Therefore, as large social companies were privatised, workers were left out of work and unable to work, because, firstly, they had years of age that no one wanted anymore, the education system was responsible for the former social enterprises, and now they were left to the projects of qualifications, and essentially they were all doing seasonal jobs or most of them, on black, which will say that the state was left without mandatory taxes, contributions, because all these people were not registered. Also, we have received information that people have been fired or have been fired and based on the posting of employees on a forced vacation, mostly again in private enterprises and those companies where there is no possibility that workers will be declared redundant. Also, the termination of work on the basis of the cancellation of a fixed-term contract and work through a youth cooperative, well, then, the establishment of surplus employees in the dedicated industry, the termination of the work of income institutions within the army, so that we totalled 64,033 people. So, it was a fragrant piece of information just for the end of 2008. The 2009 budget law provides for funding of three billion dinars, and we have already rebalanced the budget because in the meantime the IMF took place with its own account, which apparently found everything in the authorities that expected the crisis to simply fly over Serbia and that we will not be able to address the effects of the global financial crisis, so that everything that the 2009 Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia has defined for the active employment policy measures is now being put aside. Also, what was also significant is the existence of this transition fund. The same information is outdated on the 2009 Budget Law, all of which has now been changed. Then we asked the question – what about those who remain and are not reported, and how those who receive some income will be able to survive one month, given the rise in prices to little, what the public should be interested in, and so far we have not presented, is the answer given to us by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy (which should be present here when we talk about employment, because these are closely related topics, topics that should mean the safety and security of each family in Serbia) so the labour inspector told us that in 2009, he would apply and prepare an action plan to fight black work. We don't have that action plan yet. The goal was to introduce black-based employees into the legal work system, which will not only increase the number of employees, but will ensure that these persons are granted labour rights and work-based rights. We immediately understand that this will not be possible, that the economic policy measures that the government has brought to meet the rebalancing of the IMF budget simply stimulates all employers to pay only basic earnings to workers without reporting them. We have this other problem that arises from this, and that is why it was very important for the Minister to sit there in charge of the work itself, as well as the representatives of the Labour Inspectorate, because you already have the mobbing situation at work, the situation of inhumane behaviour by employers, so that workers can pick themselves up and leave. You have a situation of late payouts, you have a situation where people work more than eight hours a day, which is completely inhumane and inhumane. If they refuse or complain to anyone, I just don't know who they might be complaining to since we don't have any healthy union organisations, because the state hasn't bothered to make such an climate, there's no social dialogue, what they can't afford is work. It is not clear in this whole mile and overall social climate and what Mr Ljajic is announcing as a very big problem for the state of Serbia – how will this bill be implemented? In fact, you have a bill that most likely meets EU standards, but does not suit the situation in the state of Serbia. We report here daily the data we come up with, for example, the state of employment in the state of Serbia. Most of the time, it's an alarming situation, so we get the impression that problems are piling up, that we're here with ourselves doing rhetorical discussions. Someone has the impression that we're trying to score cheap political points, and just because there's no government representative, there's no feedback, no feedback, so we're all stuck in a maneuvering space that's a completely minefield and threatens to take away all of us who are involved in something called political life, because no one will be able to come out to meet what's coming to Serbia in the fall. So we'll have an army of people who won't have anything to lose anymore. Losing his job will lose everything. It is a problem that is clearly recognized only by Mr Ljajic. The Minister of Economy and Regional Development deafens to this problem, there is no answer, and in the end, he doesn't care, because if he cared, he would already be there with the government's crisis staff, he went to the public, he told the MPs, and he said, "Here, our plan of activity looks like that." Therefore, the government has no solution for the ongoing crisis in Serbia, when it comes to retaining employment levels. Here's another piece of information, and simply, just by the less resistance line, Miss Matic, I'm looking in your direction and I don't expect any answers to all of this, you're not own to talk about this, but the public needs to see to the end very transparently what this is all about. The Serbian public should know that we will never know where the money went from the privatisation funds. We can only conclude that they went to buy political and social peace, so public spending. We'll never get an answer to certain questions that we're asking here, because those answers are taking someone's responsibility behind them. Be assured, someone will surely have to answer because he robbed the people, because he ran the wrong, economic, social, and any other policy! Because it never occurred to them to go out and say, sorry, we failed, it was more important to accumulate wealth in the hands of only a few people, who are now the problem of the state, such as Delta Holding company and nothing more! Because it's the only conclusion that's being put in front of anyone who's trying to rationally judge the situation. It will be a variant, that when the "people" happen on the streets, because there is no other way and the institutions are deafening his demands, that Mr Dinkic come out and say, "I'm sorry, but I simply crossed you." One example is the terrible fact about Valyev. In Valjev, for a quarter less unemployed compared to the same period last year, practice has shown that there are no jobs for older than 40 years that have become excess in former social enterprises, as employers do not receive them in employment. Let's see what part of the population this is and what number of people it is. We were trying to find out the percentage of the unemployed in Serbia's cities, which are Nis, Kragujevac, Čačak, Valjevo and what we were interested in compared to existing analyses, which are vulnerable categories of people who needed frontal assistance in terms of age or persons with disabilities or any particular need, gender structure, what about young people, Roma, single parents. Unfortunately, we didn't get that information. I don't want to represent the person who's going to ring the alarm regularly, I don't think the National Employment Service has the exact structure of unemployed people. When it comes to Valjev, there has been a reduction in unemployment due to greenfield investments, political correctness to mention this with intent, privatised social firms, but in Valjevo there are currently about 7,000 unemployed, while in the same period almost a quarter of the people are on the record of local non-employment branches that are over 50 years old. I'm interested, the promoter isn't here, I don't know who could answer this question, I'm going to ask him anyway because it's a commitment to the people who are coming to us – how are you going to meet people who have more than 50 years of life, and by the structure of education they absolutely can't respond to market requirements, say, in Valjevo? Can you imagine what their mental state is and what their family is normally like, because they are unable to provide a one-month survival. So half of the total number of people unemployed in Valjevo, who are about 7,000, are over 40 years old, employers employ only young people up to 30 years old. Over 40 years of age, they can only get jobs if they are experts in their field, and there is no talking about hiring older than 50 years. A particular problem is the employment of disabled persons and persons with special needs, as well as other vulnerable categories of the population. We'll talk about it a little later, but the growing problem is that employers started with logic and most often under the pretext of the global financial crisis and brought into a very unworthy position all those who are trying to earn monthly income from them, conditioning them in the worst possible ways. Can you imagine a country where a man works for more than eight hours, where taxes and contributions are not paid, he can't even count on pension and other insurance. Can you imagine a country where a mother is asked not to give birth to children and, yes, no one is responsible for that?- I'm sorry. Or, worst of all, a country where there is no sick leave or vacations – these are, therefore, completely fictional categories. We will talk about other conditions and terrible discrimination, which is an anti-constitutional category, probably when Mr Ljajic sits there very quickly, and when he comes to Parliament with the next finding – I don't know how to get out of this crisis. It will be very late again, and it is very likely that the opposition will also be respected for having called for an alert, thrown panic across Serbia and started talking about what probably the average citizen does not know, which is that he cannot survive, that he cannot see the solution to the situation in which the state of Serbia has put him. And what's expected in these laws is that the worker and all the earners don't think, simply, they want to earn their bread, and the state is there as a guarantee that they can do so in categories worthy of human beings and not goods. Slowly but surely, what little remains to work in Serbia will work head down, and very likely 12 hours a day, with a very uncertain profit. You have examples where employers were late in payments for a few dozen years. And excuses in the sense of inherited situations absolutely do not pass. Or you're in a situation where, if you want power, you love power and you enter it, you sign your responsibility. You can't switch that to some previous periods that are incomparable. If we can't compare the budgets from earlier periods, then the historical context is also not comparable. Gentlemen and ladies, for all of this, the context in which we are slowly but surely entering, is the direct responsibility of yours and yours, for the completely incompetent and irresponsible authority that has exercised clearly other people's interests rather than Serbian interests, you alone will be paid! Politically this shouldn't concern us, given that the crisis won't leave one family alone, we can't be happy about the fact that we've been right all along. We cannot look forward to the next fact that this government, for who knows which time, has proved alienated from what is the average human life in Serbia. These days, Serbia is recording the saddest images possible. We all look like people who are completely alienated from reality and we don't want to realize just one thing, that the government works only in its own interest, not in the interest of what should be fundamental democratic principles and basic democratic principles. Look at Parliament, and it's all clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18936	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. . Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nikola Krpić and MP Djordje Milicevic, with correction, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18937	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I will use the time that belongs to the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to a concrete amendment to Article 6(1) after point 3) is added a new point 4) which reads: "Organization of additional education and training in accordance with the law". Points 4) and 5) become points 5) and 6) The amendment is based on the argument that for the Republic of Serbia, the improvement of skills and additional education is one of the key conditions for developing and harmonising labour supply with the needs of the economy. In addition, the experience of other national services that have good work results, related to the organisation of additional education and training, which is particularly important when it comes to those categories of people who are harder to employ. As regards the concrete draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, once again we want to make it very clear that, as a party to the left, of course, the SPS puts a special accent on this bill. We believe that there are no more important issues in Serbia today than this issue and there is absolutely no dilemma that this issue is a priority at this time. Any measure or proposal that would regulate employment in Serbia will always have SPS support. Our goal is for Serbia to get one, I would say, socially fair law. We agree that more attention should be paid to the active employment policy, and that we also feel it is necessary to maintain the existing level of law in this area. Today seems to be definitely modern to talk about saving, but it can't be saved on those who don't. The government of the Republic of Serbia is leading one, I would say, a proper policy. The measures for economic stability have protected those most vulnerable layers of the population. The burden of the crisis at this time will not fall on pensioners employed in state action, it will not apply to those employed in the state administration if they earn below 40,000 dinars, but it seems to us that this bill is based on certain issues, especially in this second section relating to unemployment insurance, in contradiction with the fully correct measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to say once again that we support active employment policy measures, especially when it comes to public works, because through the launch and opening of public works, we see the possibility of hiring exactly those heavily vulnerable social categories of Serbia. It is also an opportunity for the municipality to get new values in that territory parallel to them. We also support the introduction of a national employment action plan as a basic central instrument for planning an active employment policy, which will serve as a basis for budgetary planning in the area of employment. As far as individual employment plans are concerned, we want to believe that after the debate in the public, there will be an impression that it is not just too much administration, about 800,000 contracts, and that since there is a possibility that work can be entrusted to the agency and that this is how employment agencies are done. We hope, of course, that it will not remain that way after this debate that we are currently having under the amendments to the proposed legislative solution. We believe that an individual employment plan should be brought primarily for persons who are long-term unemployed, i.e. for a long time on the labour market, as well as for those who have lost their jobs, and very few are left with pensions. It's just that there's a few questions going on and I want to ask them. First of all, is this law urgent and is it imposed by the EU? Is this area also about harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation? Is this bill by the National Employment Service, as a specific institution of compulsory insurance, a real state body, bearing in mind the composition of the board of directors proposed? Does this proposed law make it difficult to place poor layers and unemployed, especially when it comes to cash compensation, which is relatively and absolutely reduced, the smaller base, the smaller percentage, the shorter duration, etc.? Does the promoter distinguish between employment policy and labour market policy and which policy should it lead? As for the first part of the law, when it comes to employment, this part of course has the support of the SAA, but we believe that the solutions given in the second part, which relate to unemployment insurance, are not good. In agreement with the Alliance of Independent Unions and the Freedom Union Association, SPS MPs submitted a number of amendments to greatly improve this legislative proposal and, of course, we will talk about it during this debate on amendments. So we are for saving. Savings at the state level should be a priority, but we are not for paying those who have lost their jobs and who should receive compensation because they were paying in case of insurance or unemployment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18938	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Dobrislav Prelic submitted.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18939	Ladies and gentlemen, for the SRS, it is the starting point and the place where we return most often is the highest legislative act of the state of Serbia, or what some professionals in this area would say – lex superior, in this area what was the intention of the SRS and for us is quite enough, but unfortunately, something that is most often not respected, and yet important to us because, among other things, on the list of priorities of the agenda of our political action is human rights assurance, which concerns Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What we wanted with the amendment is for Article 9(2) to be replaced by the word "procedures" in the word "procedures". This amendment has been proposed to strengthen Article 60. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads, is very important for the public to just remind ourselves of what the Constitution predicted, but what is most often not respected (I will probably use the time foreseen for the MP's group) says: "The right to work in accordance with the law is guaranteed. Everyone has the right to a free choice of work. All of them, on equal terms, are available to all jobs. Everyone has the right to respect their personality at work, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working hours, daily and Sunday vacations, paid vacations, fair work compensation and the right protection in case of termination of employment. No one can give up those rights. Women, young people and disabled persons shall be provided with special protection at work and special working conditions, in accordance with the law." So, the experiment works, the SRS calls this moment all those who follow this direct transmission to report to the address of the SRS Parliament Club and say only on the basis of this Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to which their rights are respected. With that in mind, it would be important for Mr. Rasim Ljajic to sit here during this debate. There would be a lot to hear, but employment policy, active employment policy measures and the provision of all that is prescribed by Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is in direct contact with all that the SRS will launch in a few months, and it is sort of a list of everything that is being broken and is being guaranteed by the Constitution. It is significant that we will then present how individual examples, as well as the cross-section of what a working day looks like in Serbia, how people apply for work and how they try to keep their jobs. Why am I talking about this? Because the latest research shows that, among other things, about 46% of people in Serbia fear for their jobs. According to a survey by public opinion research agencies, media and the Mediterranean Gallup market, Serbia is the fifth in the list of respondents who think they can lose their jobs in 2009. In front of it is the Czech Republic with 58%, Peru with 55%, Cameroon with 49%. A very interesting category of countries. According to a survey conducted by the Republic Institute for Statistics on Serbia's unemployment rate in October last year, 14%. It was smaller than in the same month of 2007, when it was 18.1% and the employment rate was 44.2% and higher than it was a year ago, when it was 41.8%. Among the unemployed were more women than men, 12.1% of unemployed men and 16.5% of women. This is the information he should speak for himself. The men were employed 53.2% and the woman was only 35.9%. However, the news that came to us in early May is facts that significantly affect the level of employment, i.e. unemployment, and regarding certain cities again, regional development, that more than three and a half thousand workers were fired in Panchev. Since the beginning of the year, for privatisation, bankruptcy and liquidation, the company has been fired, precisely, 3.546 people. 12,329 people are currently registered on the labour market in Pančevo. And from the report of the Alliance of Independent Unions in Panchev, it is that in the last few days more than 200 workers have been fired. Multiply it by three or four, so many household members on average. The agricultural giants in Vojvodina "Old Tamis" fired 70 people, "Vojvode's Way" 87, a agricultural enterprise in Kacharevo 42. One of the important facts that will definitely decide how many people will be left without a job in May - September of this year, is what we had the opportunity to hear from the President of the Foreign Investors Council, Mr. Aleksandr Radosavljevic, that the value of the delayed foreign investments planned for 2009 is from 700 - 800 million dollars and that the $800 million foreign investment has been postponed indefinitely. We will see that everything that is promises will pass, in terms of investments by all those who think they will support Serbia on their pro-European path. These are data that are now saying that this path is very lax and that on that road there is obviously only power in Serbia, and that the people are already slowly but surely, very clearly, going quite another way. Now, we'll see at that intersection, when the people meet with power, what answers we'll get. So far, we have only the devastating results of various privatisations, Chačak, Valjevo, Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade, and no one was missing hair from their heads because no one was responding because so many people were left out of work, because so many people were simply left behind, not paying off what they had bloody earned, because the funds were empty and because we absolutely do not know how the budgets are spent and because it is totally unacceptable for us to, say, the PIO Fund to support itself from the budget and that the losses of the PIO Fund are so large and startling! We also find it totally unacceptable that all this time, huge public spending has been financed and that, in fact, the reform course has not been one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, you are very aware, of course, that one moment someone will have to bear enormous responsibility for a completely missed economic and social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18940	The word was requested by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18941	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is one of the most important topics for the lives of people in Serbia, for the lives of citizens, who seek only so little – to work, to live from their work, to provide for the existence of their families. This is, after all, the main topic and priority, if you look at the results of public opinion research agencies – work, profit, fear of losing a job, it is the subject of all topics, it is a question of all issues, it is a program of all programmes. Unfortunately, Kosovo is only in seventh or eighth place. We are one of the first countries in Europe by unemployment. We're doing some unspeakable records. Nothing on that plan has been done. This is an extremely important topic for young generations, for smart ones, for educated ones, who are again waiting in line in front of foreign embassies. Look at public opinion polls for young intellectuals, who have just finished colleges, over 80% want to go abroad. It's genocide towards its own country. I've met them in the world. Young, beautiful, educated, but you see sorrow in your eyes and sorrow in your hearts. Serbia is their country, and it cannot provide them with so little, just to work – they get apartments or houses with pools, because one magistrate or one real world science doctor costs half a million dollars or half a million euros and to the last cent they pay it all off, and Serbia just loses it. I've met a lot of young people, who've been begging me lately art historians, archaeologists, graduate lawyers, doctors, engineers, professors, want to do anything. They're going to be waiters in cafes at Ibarska Master's with a degree in pocket. It's the defeat of one government, one state. That's not supposed to happen. And how does the government behave? Well, that was one of her main promises -- perspectives for young generations, employment for so many hundreds of thousands of young people. So, what now? The whole government was supposed to sit here today and show that it's going to rock, encourage, interfere, mobilize, say it's going to be our priority, and no, Malten, there's no one here. Where is Mladjan Dinkic now who promised towers and cities, honey and milk, as Baron Minhauzen? He's not here today. There are no other members of the government. This relationship to the debate on this agenda point shows what the future will be, what perspective it will be. I'm afraid it's the most colorful lie again. I'd like the government to deny me, to prove that it's not, that it wasn't a promise of crazy joy, to keep these young smart and educational ones here, the flower of a nation, of a state, we need them here in Serbia, not on distant meridians with grief in our hearts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18942	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic also asked for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18943	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support these amendments to the opposition, but my soul hurts when you don't accept any of them, but you're starting to tell us a story we've been hearing for years, and here and now from the law we've been expecting nothing from. This is purely one cosmetic, one campaign is being conducted on thousands of jobs, and no one has yet told where these companies are, where these companies, which are productive activities, are useful, where these people will be employed. We can simply, the government can, hire people in the administration, and talk about reducing the administration. It's a more corny phrase - action plans are done, we support action plans, we support the attitudes of certain agencies working on it, it's all a smoked pipe. There are some 60,000 companies in the blockade in Serbia today. In Serbia, giants don't work, in cities that are in a major crisis, let's take Bor, let's take Majdanpek, let's take Nis, let's take the Electric Industry, let's take the Viskoza. Let's mention this flag joke, it's been said, gentlemen, this year it's going out with the 300,000 "punta" project, so far it's been sold five and two have been advertised. What's this about? Is that serious? - The seriousness of this topic was to be seen here by the minister's presence. Why never when it comes to economy, employment, has no economy minister? We send someone here to stay, not guilty or due, but those who talk on television, who don't stop every night bombing thousands of jobs, big programs, projects, credit lines don't come here to pay their bills to the MPs, to say which city they're going to work in and where they're going to work. In particular, we have, unfortunately, a party state. The party that takes over, it takes over all party personnel who run the firm. You recently fired the best director in the military industry at Freedom because he didn't want to be heard. The company that concluded 30m euros in contracts, the director just got shot -- a ticket because he didn't want to give certain fees where to be given, through intermediaries. The program that was supposed to hire new people, it all fell into the water. You bring party staff, you hire parties. Let's get into health care, there's no technique that's not from G17 to get a job, that's what we know. Moreover, when the elections say – you must vote publicly or you will lose your job. In the state administration, it's a sin. We don't have, yet, businessmen who will lead this economy, we don't have a minister of economy. We can't make that ministry a mess, put in tourism, and even regional development, and water and sewerage, and roads and there to upgrade some buildings and businesses. We're just telling a story for a story. Ask Jelasic how much we have today, and how much is promised. We had a budget rebalance the other day. Here, you immediately announced the budget rebalance in the voting day because you promised some who did not want to vote about 6.5 billion. Where are you taking them? It's a new rebalancing. How do you get them? How can you give them to those you promised them to? It's a new budget rebalance. So this country is going into total economic anarchy. We name a volcanic shop, a barbershop, and we spin on TV to hire some people there! Where are the credit lines for new businesses? How and how to organize it? What about the processing of agricultural products? We giants haven't worked in years. We don't have a processing. Tree processors, what about them? Why does it totally cost construction in certain environments? Why did you stop a concession that was two billion healthy, completely healthy investments in Serbia? Would it be realistic to fill the budget from that concession that was announced? Can anyone explain how some, uh, Infrastructure Council, could stop the concession that was adopted at Parliament, which was simply passed here as a law that was passed and the government was behind the project? Where are these projects that will hire people? I repeat, in what cities?- I'm sorry. It's just a story – strategic programs, strategic plans are being done. Well, at least out of all the administrative work and these circus stories and plays, you could make a mediocre company and really hire some people. Here, it's May month. Here comes a whole generation of new high school kids, students, doctors. I was so disappointed when I saw the president of the state who made the most impression on him, that one doctor with an average of 9.5 went to overqualified and to finish high school to go out to work. It's a disgrace for Serbia, it's a disgrace for all of us! How much did it cost, Mr. Batic, to say nicely, one doctor to educate him, one engineer to school him? Where are we going to get them? What is it doing in Serbia today?- I'm sorry. Gentlemen, what companies in Belgrade are they doing? Where are the giants who used to hire thousands of people? What about them? Did you know that Rakovica is completely dead? There's no life out there, don't do anything! Take the Dragon, take the tractor factory, take the First Spark – Barich, take the military industry, which you are destroying again, etc. Dispose of this work of party states, party staff and party employment, gentlemen! People get fired if they're not party thinkers of those in power. The people who are in opposition are mass fired. They're the first to shoot, no matter what quality workers they are and what they're good at. You're afraid of strikes, of protests, so that they don't put themselves in front of the ranks, and that's why you remove them immediately and eliminate them. In the most crucial places, in the most vital places, obedient people work on the best projects. The listeners remain to work on it. Serbia has work to do. The import lobby has completely broken the Serbian economy. What is it about starting to reduce imports? What can Serbia export at this time? Where is the Minister of Economy to report to this House? We're talking about exports. What are we going to export? What can Serbia take to foreign markets? What can we take to the EU? There's nothing we can do! We don't have production, we all care, we don't, and you may not feel it, because we spend our days here in Parliament and we adopt some laws, so irrelevant that will apply in 2012, in 2013 or who knows when, and maybe they'll never apply, because someone else will come in smarter, and they'll say, "No, let's not do that, let's adopt some new ones." The economy - it's gone! When they're economical, there's no Minister of Economy. You see, gentlemen, there's only one fierce campaign going on right now, there's a lot of MPs, let's change the Constitution, let's be a referendum, let's cut the number of MPs. Here, someone who was smart and once designed this hall you can see how much he designed the seats. Half of Parliament is empty today, but look at the seats for the government. The smartest people who designed this beautiful building predicted that the most, with the Prime Minister, the secretary of government and ministers, could have 20 chairs. It's maximum intended for a normal, civilized state. Look how many of us we have. Half the people have nowhere to sit when our government comes. You only have chairs from this government, because we're overbooked by an administration that no one wants to reduce, and there's a big administration in the ministries. You have fewer deputies than ministers, state secretaries, assistants and advisors. So let's not waste time with these big strategies, with a colorful lie, with stories of millions, thousands of jobs, none of it! Let's be realistic. Please, gentlemen, you who are from the Ministry of Economy, if there is anyone from the Ministry of Economy here and if anyone at all at the Ministry of Economy is interested in this topic, go out with real programs and be clear and loud. The other day I listened to Pajtic, who says: there are 25,000 jobs ready in Vojvodina and waiting for people to work. Where's he gonna get a job? What companies, what cities, how many people? Let's see, let's take a look at these lists where you're going to hire that piece you've been talking about for years -- none of it?- I'm sorry. My great disappointment is that this law that we're discussing today is another empty story.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18944	People's MP, the time at your representative's disposal has been used. (Velimir Ilic): Good, thank you. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. [[Applause]] Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nikola Krpić and Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18945	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 9, where new points 3 and 4 are added in Article 1 post-point 2). With this amendment, the SPS-JS does not dispute the membership and content of Article 9 but complements it. The National Employment Service should play a more active role and a comprehensive content of work and activity in the performance of its functions. With this amendment, we're trying to replace it. In addition to providing employers and persons seeking employment with notice of laws on legal provisions, collective agreements and other general acts, which are in force, on rights, on the obligations and responsibilities of employers and employees, in addition to providing advice on the way and procedure for the exercise of rights and the exercise of their obligations, and providing assistance in the way and filling and delivery of information to the National Service of Forms and Documents, information should also be provided on the opportunities and programmes of qualifications, requalification and improvements, skills of work and work competences, as well as on the provision of information on movement and trends in the labour market. The task of the National Employment Service is to market between supply and demand in the field of labour; to coordinate the qualification and retraining; to forecast the movement of the labour market and to see economic and technological and educational trends, which will be current in the next period. So this complements what is the function and role of the National Employment Service, and in favour of what employers and their needs are and in favour of those looking for a job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18946	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Jovan Palalić and Milan Lapčević submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18947	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have made it clear that the solutions offered in the proposal for this law cannot in any way contribute to the basic objective of the employment law, which is to increase employment in Serbia. It is not only that we are going to attack the solutions that we are going to make in the context of this discussion in particular, with the view that they are not in any way providing the employment environment, nor the instruments that can lead to what has been promoted here as an actual employment policy, but also the ambience created by this Government of the Republic of Serbia -- the measures that are disastrous for the Serbian economy, which should create key conditions for employment. Under his exposé, Prime Minister Cvetkovic announced the opening of 200,000 new jobs. What is the situation on the labour market now, what is the situation in the economy, in local self-government, we can say that this process will go the other way – that by the end of this government's term, and I expect that the end will be very soon, there will be 200,000 more unemployed. In this sense, this employment law, in the extreme case of unemployment, is something that was in no way necessary, as a priority policy of the government, at this session of Parliament. On this article 11, I will say that he is, in fact, on the trail of what the Ministry and Government are doing, in some period from 2-3 months ago, in a series of laws and can qualify – such as the collapse of institutions, i.e. destroying institutions and putting in complete control under the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We saw today in the debate how he wanted to change the position of the chambers of commerce. We have seen what status is predicted for the Development Fund, and now we see that the National Employment Service should become literally the authority of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. This means that from an independent social security organisation, it should become one department of the Ministry, which will not only have any freedom of action, but what is important, which we will say in the next amendments, will not include key factors, I am talking about the bodies of this agency, which are needed to define employment policy and which are very interested in defining this policy. Here we have in the structure of the bodies that are provided for in the National Employment Service one full centralization, a complete strangulation of the freedom of this national service and the absence of any possibility of independent policy-making, and we will see through the next members what is, in fact, the goal of all of this. The goal is to introduce a small door to a parallel institution, through which the means of realisation should go through the declared active employment policy here, which is agencies that have the exact same jurisdiction, where people will be employed, surely party personnel, not to be naive. They will receive state funds, one of their colleagues said, which will have a number of obligations, including making individual employment plans, as said here by Minister Kalanovic: to make a sum-analysis of individual unemployed and in fact it will be a way to spread influence when it comes to employment policy, individual political parties. In this amendment, we wanted to place things in the right place, that the National Employment Service had the same position and independence as it had in the previous period, that it had a legal committee, that it had a supervisory board, that it had a director elected by it, the board of directors, and where it would be able to implement through these three bodies what was important at the moment, which is that the employment policy was clearly defined in collaboration with employers, union representatives, representatives of the unemployed, to be a general consensus where employment policy should go, and we tried a very bad law to correct the amendments. But nothing will be able to fix this dreary picture created by the government of the Republic of Serbia and in general the social environment in Serbia, wandering from measure to measure, reducing subsidies, compensation for those who can create space for employment, agriculture, local self-government and economy. The economy has no opportunity to assist the government of the Republic of Serbia, except in the document adopted by the government – go to commercial banks, where we know what credit policy is, where we know what interest is, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has remained on the side. We have offered as DSS, and through the way we have discussed the budget rebalancing, the way in which we have presented our programme of Serbia's development in the streets of the economic crisis, the way we see employment policy through this law, but what this law foresees is the total abolition of the independence of national service and the sub-decreation of the rights of the unemployed, which we will talk about later, which through the amount of compensation, which is through the length of the length of the fee and the introduction of the agencies, is the greatest danger that we are talking about here for days. And now we see a new law, completely impertinent, regardless of the public discussion, introduces new agencies which, the public should know, will be financed by state money. It will be financed by money that will be cut off from those of our unemployed citizens who have over 25 years of standing, from these billions and a half, who will go to some agencies that will have the possibility that alone, completely separate from the rounded employment policy, they will find some of their interests, we assume party interests. In principle, we have pointed out the problem of this law. He absolutely needs to withdraw from the congregation procedure, to work himself out. We hear discussions here today in Parliament and by the ruling parties that they have serious objections to this law. Let it go back to the procedure, let these arguments be respected and let the government first appear here with serious policy measures against the economic crisis, and only then can there be serious talk of employment, so that we don't get into a situation that instead of 200,000 new jobs, I'm afraid, we have 200,000 new unemployed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18948	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that day-to-day representatives of the executive government are slowly but surely coming to the positions of the SRS, here's the part. So we have been criticising since the beginning, given the abundant public spending, the fact that all proposed legislative packages foresee the formation of a number of agencies. What we consider to be completely disproportionate at the moment where the state is located, the state that is in the congested state that can only be safely operated within the state and the para-state system, when we say the para-state system here in the first place, we think of 102 agencies. On the one hand, according to the IMF's recommendations and requirements to reduce the budget deficit to 3% of gross domestic product, for Serbia's special condition in relation to, say, other countries where the deficit is much higher and have received a higher time interval to measure only 3% of the gross domestic product, we here adopt and work in contrast with the Serbian people. We're adopting law packages that are forecasting, instead of reducing public spending, the formation of agencies. The other day, we heard an official statement by Mr. Markovic, who asked the press -- a much bigger problem for the agency, the existence of agencies that proved to be very inefficient than the number of ministries and employees within the state structure. What if it's not coming to SRS positions? What if it's not joining the criticism of the SRS from the very beginning of predicting the introduction of so many agencies? You have parallel processes. On the one hand, the government reduces public spending by using itself well-known criteria, and we know how to create very suitable criteria, to lay off a huge number of employees within the state administration, and on the other hand, to re-employ, on their own criteria, a certain number of people, and so slowly but surely to make this society where there will probably be those who are similar and those who are not alike. We will follow these processes quite safely and it is quite clear that the SRS will publicly make examples of discrimination in employment on any basis, as well as that it will make very clear and transparent examples of budget spending, especially in light of the financial crisis that has hit the state of Serbia. What the public in Serbia doesn't know, and it is most precious to us, I hope you won't mind us, is that the reasons for the adoption of this law, and that you should know, the problem of significant unemployment and underemployment of citizens, this is what the promoter wrote, did not invent the SRS, is one of the most important problems facing the Republic of Serbia today. The unemployment rate in 2007 was 18.8%, 51.5%. Both of these key labour market indicators are significantly more unfavourable than in any of the 27 EU member states. This percentage is added to the percentage of those returned to the state of Serbia for reading, those for whom the government will not recognise that there is no means to solve their problem. These are mostly Roma and people who have a problem with education, who cannot respond to the labour market. It is tens of thousands of people who will be a problem for the executive government in Serbia. According to the promoter, although the unfavourable situation in the labour market is due to inherited problems and the transition to market economy, it is necessary to influence the improvement of the labour market through an adequate legal framework in the area of employment and labour market policies. We're asking how? As it has affected so far, it is only a reflection of a completely irresponsible policy-led one. So what was only prosperous in Serbia is public spending. The only reliable source of income is the work of state and para-state authorities, and for this reason, when we are talking about the dignity of people who should be employed and are young experts, they are conditioned to be members of the ruling coalition's parties, as once upon a time, to be in line for those who are similar even to enter the vision of those who decide whether to work or not. The promoter says - the problem of unemployment must be seen in a much wider context than the proposed law, as already highlighted in the National Employment Strategy for Serbia for the period 2005/2010. Given that the Republic of Serbia is in the process of European integration, it should be stressed that the proposed law uses the basic solutions of the Directive, resolution and recommendations of the EU and the Council of Europe. We remind that all of these bill proposals that we have discussed and put as priority legislative solutions and which should mean, we in the SRS understand that Serbia will get very close if all of these standards are adopted to the highly developed countries of Europe. We say – they will not, because these standards will only be normative standards, which rarely anyone will be able to meet. And, because meeting these standards costs. We don't have any money for that. The question is how will Europe separate significant financial resources so that we respect the status of these standards. But something else that the proposer has provided for this law, so dear Serbian citizens will be able to see that this is just a dead letter on paper, are the principles on which the proposed law is based, these are: prohibitions of discrimination, impartiality in the conduct of employment, gender equality, affirmative actions directed towards more difficult unemployed persons, freedoms in the choice of profession and job, the freeness of doing jobs towards unemployed persons. Give me one area, one institution, where any of these standards are met. Personally, I don't know any. The Serbian institutions are filled with, in fact, the complete opposite of all of what is being done and which has been managed by the legislator. And then the question arises, why are so much money being spent, and why are we at all discussing the issue in the context where the authorised promoter is unable, he does not want to, is not interested in talking to the opposition, to go out to the citizens and say really harsh reality, whether we will be able to put out the fire that will happen in the state of Serbia, which is social and economic, we say -- he will not, and that is one of the main reasons why Mr Dinkic is not there. The second main reason is that it would be a recognition, because it would have to answer some questions, that it has been the signator of the completely wrong economic and monetary policy since 2000. Also, something that should be significant for all of us is the answer that should have been given by the authorising officer that, does the implementation of this law mean that only to one extent, the level of employment, let's say, will be maintained in 2008? Of course not. Whether the implementation of this law also means that it will be respected in the first place by Article 60. The constitution of the state of Serbia, which we quoted during today and we have no idea that we are quoting again, but it really makes a society that is utopian for Serbian society, just an idea that we will not be able to approach, of course not! What's our reality? You have people who strike hunger, you have people who consciously influence their lives, you have people for whom, a growing number of these people, the state of Serbia doesn't have one single answer. What would you probably be asked by all those who are now following this regular session, do you even understand what it's like to live with 12,000 a month? Can anyone understand that someone can live with 7,000 a month? And can anyone understand an unexplainable situation when someone is out of a job and is not in the process of seeing a new solution?- I'm sorry. These are all questions to which the answers should be authorized by the Proposer yes. He's not going to give it away, of course, because they're not there. I'm afraid the way out of what's going to happen at the end of the year, is going to be like some of the previous ones did – nothing so far, turkey dots don't apply, we're going to new elections! And citizens are supposed to survive this whole period. What is completely monstrous in the state of Serbia, for us completely unacceptable, is that you have come to a wave of reforms and promises that predict responsibility, because someone has taken a man's life. In Serbia, for nine years, it survives, it vegetations, and that no one is responsible for it! In Serbia, it is said, there is no revision, there is no final bill, because someone is hiding the thief and that no one is responsible for it! In the state of Serbia, nine years after democratic changes, you have a statement that Parliament is expensive, that we need fewer MPs and you have a perfect replacement of the level of government. The court influences the executive, the executive dictates the court and everything is completely disrupted. You have a final situation where a good part of the law, which is why the opposition is regularly punished, because it's late, cannot be implemented on 15% of the territory, and you promised it would. That's what everyone believed, rightly so. In Serbia, for nine years, someone has been schooling, growing and matured new generations, which nine years after democratic changes go into total uncertainty in EU countries, which now, ladies and gentlemen, have put ramps on their labour market. Do you want to be plastically described what it is like to banish workers from highly developed countries? What does discrimination on the ground look like in Britain or France? Who there has the right and opportunity to keep their jobs? Serbs - no! The Serbian high school staff, he's a cheap labour force there, because all the countries outside know how to protect their high school personnel, and we force them, nine years after democratic changes. They're those kids, you know, who've been pounding into drums, looking only for normal lives after decades of wars, rightly, looking for only a normal opportunity to live and work in Serbia. These are the children you lied and expelled from the Serbian state with a bad and irresponsible policy. These are the children you demand to be party members of the ruling coalition, so they don't just come in line to show that they know something. Then what changed?- I'm sorry. The same party resemblance remained, the elite remained more or less similar or the same. So, since the change, there's nothing! Unfortunately, and since this law, and we are not happy about it, there is nothing, because the state of Serbia has no capacity, there is no business activity that can withstand the level of unemployment expected. What active employment measures?- I'm sorry. We won't be able to serve all those people who are going to be out of work, who will be unscheduled for six months. We're approaching a serious crisis. If that's true, let's not just ring a panic alarm, says Mr. Ljajic, who says it's minutes to 12 to create a crisis headquarters, to open a social dialogue, where is he? Who's the government talking to? Authorised promoters are not present here. We often go into conflict with each other, how, wanting to scandal the public and draw attention to the main problems. Who are we fighting with? One with the other, members of Parliament, instead of having the proposings present, to give us final answers, in which way they will think they are serving what will happen to us. Now, that's the face and face of the Serbian state and that's where the government fell! This is just vegetation, this is the maintenance of power by those who made us such a political scene – on the dead body of Serbia! Because it will soon prove that everything that is capable of getting out of this country with its head, because in Serbia it will not be able to earn its bread. It's the saddest fact. And in front of that fact, we all need to get our heads down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18950	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18951	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the trail of that different concept that the Democratic Party of Serbia sees the National Employment Service should look like. We said that, just through the structure of the authorities, as defined in this law, there was one strangulation of the independence of the National Employment Service, i.e. the transfer, factual, complete creation and establishment of a employment policy from this organisation, which should be independent in its name, to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development alone. Exactly, the way it is defined in this member of the Management Board, the National Employment Service, it is evident that it will have no independence, factual, direct advantage in its structure will have persons who appoint and propose the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We believe that employment policy should be something that implies a broader consensus, including all entities interested in this policy, representatives and employers, and trade unions and representatives of the unemployed, of course, and employees of the National Employment Service. This amendment intends to point out that by proposing this law, the government is trying to make a single organisation, which already has, I can say freely, and the property and reputation of society, completely impossible, when it comes to its independence and policymaking, and that it comes down to the mere department of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The Ministry and one minister, however strong, powerful and capable, cannot create a policy of employment on their own. We believe that such an important topic, which is of interest to all citizens, who are now probably following this transmission, should be the fruit of an active settlement between those who need to establish a working relationship, among those who need to participate in the establishment of a working relationship with the Government, which should, as it is said here, provide the means to implement the active employment measure. In that sense, this amendment, as I said, cannot significantly correct this bad law, but it wants to point out the difference in concept and the intention of this amendment to preserve the independence of the National Employment Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18952	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18953	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the meaning of the amendment submitted to Article 12 of the proposed law was to enable the Management Board of the National Employment Service to be adequately represented and equally represented by representatives of employers, government and trade unions. On behalf of the SPS - JS Parliament Club, this amendment has been submitted because we believe that representatives of the union, above all as representatives of workers, must have a greater share than is provided for by the proposed Article 12 of the Law. The promoter stated in Article 12 of the Management Board's representation in the way it probably suits him. Our attempt with this amendment is to make all three social partners represented and it is an attempt to enable more adequate workers and those who are not represented to be represented through their, above all, union representatives in this body. at the National Employment Service. I therefore hope that the Proposer will have an understanding of this amendment and will adopt it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18954	The word was sought by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the presidency, the SPS-JS Group has tabled a dozen amendments to this employment and unemployment insurance law. Of course, the goal and desire are not to question the law with our proposals, but to offer solutions that can make this law even better. They are all significant, but I would like to point out, this amendment to Article 12 and the amendment to Articles 70 and 72 that these are key SPS-JS amendments, not diminishing the importance of other amendments. In the principle debate, we said that this employment law deserves support, first of all, in the part that talks about active employment policy and we are absolutely behind it, we are giving full support. In the employment work, we have objections and serious objections to the composition of the National Employment Service Management Board, which my colleague Sasa Dujovic spoke of. Why do we think that? We think the Board of Directors of the National Employment Service should be represented evenly by all three social partners. In this case, the National Employment Service will be a real service that will respond to the request, which will address the problem of resolving employment in Serbia. Why do we think that social partners should be evenly represented? Expressed unemployment, high unemployment, underemployment, low employment is Serbia's biggest problem, and the issue is that everyone should deal with. Why? There is no greater task in Serbia than to save a job, or hire a man. The problem of Serbia, when it comes to employment and unemployment, is so great that it overcomes individual and government and employers and trade unions, but all together and as it commits to dealing with this problem, it all commits together for the simple reason that no problem, especially now, in terms of the economic crisis, will be able to resolve if there is really no social dialogue between the social partners, if there is no consensus, that I do not say that there is a broader consensus in Serbia, in order for Serbia to come out of the economic crisis. For these reasons, we have proposed that the Management Board be maintained in a way that all three social partners be equally represented and each of them, in their own domain, assume their own domain of commitment when it comes to resolving the problem of employment in Serbia. That's the essence of our amendment. counterpart Palalic also offers one solution, something different, but still goes that way. So it's up to the government to choose a variant, because I'm afraid it's proposed, although I don't think so, everything seems to me that the National Employment Service is going towards becoming a state body, is the fact that this time the proposal has increased the number in the proposal, by the Social-Economic Council, which the trade unions are giving to one, but it's also the fact that if we have eight members of the Management Board plus the ninth director, we have a situation that two employers, two trade unions, four the Ministry suggests, of which two of them are from the Ministry. We don't think that's a good solution. After all, starting to solve problems is not good. For these reasons, we propose such an amendment as was spoken of by my colleague Sasa Dujovic, that the composition be reflected in a way that all social partners are equally represented. I repeat, there is no solution to the problem, not one, without real social dialogue in Serbia between the government, between employers, between trade unions, without consensus on any issues Serbia will face. I am now taking advantage of the opportunity, given that the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia and the proposing of these amendments, with the support of the association unions "Slogo", which we have accepted as our own, because in this part of the policy we programmely agree, we believe that the union must be heard and respected in this area. So I don't show up afterwards, and in terms of rationalizing the time left, I'm going to comment on two more amendments. In this way we will cover about seven or eight, we will not report later, and these are amendments to Article 70 and to Article 72, which we have submitted, and they are talking about the part of the law relating to unemployment insurance. Article 70 speaks of the amount of compensation, and Article 72 speaks of the length of the payment period. I want to repeat what I said in the principle debate. As much as we support part of the employment law, especially the active employment policy measures, we do not agree with the solutions given in the work on unemployment insurance. Maybe it's too much, but I'd like to say again, this is about insurance as a category, it's not about the state's social aid, it's about unemployment insurance, where every employee spends every month allocating funds to secure himself in case he's unemployed. It must be respected, it must be respected. Of course, there is a percentage, according to the Obligation Social Insurance Act, of the amount to be allocated. That's why I insist on it, it's insurance, it's not State aid, and then those funds are for the unemployment benefits, if they run out of work and temporarily, until they get another job. That's the point, that's the sense of unemployment insurance. Of course, and pension, health insurance, etc. What's going on here? It retains this law right to cash compensation, but more restrictive than the existing law. I have to say, that's not good. We feel that such a solution is not right. In fact, Article 70, when talking about the amount of the fee, reduces from 60% of the average earnings in the last six months to 50%, and then one corrective element that was – thus determined compensation had a ceiling of average earnings and a lower minimum profit. In this way, it has been shown and proved that through the above, it is ensured that the cost-effectiveness of work must be given priority, but also through the bottom that it must be, as I say, materially sustainable. What do we have in the bill? First, to reduce this percentage from 60 to 50%, and then to correct factors, upper and lower limits, by 20%, by now establishing the upper – 160% of the minimum earnings and the lower – 80% of the minimum earnings. We suggested, we warned for a month, let's sit down and look at another solution, this isn't good, it's not good to be restrictive, especially right now, in terms of the economic crisis. Who's getting smaller? It's downgraded to those who don't! This government has brought a third package of measures, and in each of these packages, it has shown its responsibility by protecting the poorest layers. To remind you, the package of measures brought in the other day protects pensioners, which is good, protects all employees, does not introduce restrictions, which is good, applies only to state administration and public funds users and those who have more than 40,000. So there's also those who have up to 40,000. Why does my government, protecting all these categories, for which there is support, in this case does not protect the most endangered category, the category of employees? They're the poorest. We support everything that applies here and what they say will be the introduction of special incentives, all of which we support. The moment he gets the job, he'll stop being paid. I'm not talking about those who can abuse it, there's a way to solve it, I'm talking about the largest number of people who can't get a job if they have a few years of retirement training, I can't, no one will. They're what I'm talking about. Why is it taken from them? Why is it shrinking? Why have we preserved, with the right, the pensioners, preserved the workers, preserved everything, and we have found here to save money – among the people who do not have it? As part of that, let me explain. We have proposed our amendment to keep the current situation, as already in force in the current law, and this is Article 72, which speaks of the length of the duration. And he's restrictive. We're in the same situation again, to explain ourselves in the same way. And that's where we suggested, when it comes to the length of the duration, that it remain a solution as it is now in the applicable law. In this new proposal, the border has been shifted from 20 to 25 years, and behind it is only an exception that it can have someone two years, if he is two years old until retirement. We believe that these solutions are restrictive and we believe that it is not good, in terms of the economic crisis, to shift the burden over to those who do not. We fully support all possible incentives to hire them as soon as possible. Last time I pointed out particular public works, which are meant for hard employment and socially endangered, but I don't think this government should let them take from those who don't. For these reasons, there are a few more amendments, I felt like I needed to, on behalf of the SPS-JS, explain these which we think are key and we think there's still time for someone to sit with us or even consider all these issues and find the best possible solution, because this is not good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18956	The same amendment says Marina Ragus, so Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18957	So I can only continue where the previous speaker has stopped, and this is exactly the context that we have been presenting for a month in the discussion of 49 points of this plenary agenda, which is, in fact, the target and distance of all our criticisms, but it is amazing that it comes from the ranks of members of the ruling coalition, but thank God, what is good and joyous news, that there are indeed responsible people who cannot give up or suffer such an obvious injustice. What I think will be a problem for the government, first of all, but also for all of us in the perspective, is whether we're ready to pass this exam or fall on that exam. What the opposition can only do is say, suggest, possibly only in times of this kind of crisis, but what we are constantly doing, we are trying to make sure that this criticism, indeed, somewhere irresponsible under the economic policy of the Serbian government, is justified. This is, we admit, a conflict of two entirely different concepts. Our concept has long been presented to the Serbian public and has not encountered the majority. We can only respect the election will of 11 May 2008. We say Serbia is on the wrong track! This wrong path has led to the same historic side of the road that it has brought many generations before us when many people have ruled Serbia, how difficult we will be for this life. However, what the SRS is doing with intent and fully obvious imagination – it leaves exactly a historical structure for much better generations of politicians who will be able to fully objectively analyse and understand how the state of Serbia can be economically recovered, nationally strong and dignified, while being open to the whole world. What we have a chance to look at so far is, it's a completely wrong approach to something that was an initial idea or just a false promise to change the system. If changing the system meant only taking the lever of the previous system, then that should have been said, so let's see how much consensus you would get just to change those suits. But it's inevitable to mention here, and to me, a truly favorite and stylish figure, it's the withdrawal of these historic parallels. This is not the first time that Serbia is in a situation like this. It is not the first time that Serbia is under occupation, that Serbia had to fulfill the ultimatums of more powerful empires or empires. It's happened before, it's gonna happen again. Serbia is small, often knows how to choose the wrong allies and to trust those who shouldn't, and when it comes to a complete ambition, it grabs its head and tells where the solution is. Because of the public in Serbia, I can't help but recall an example that was so well depicted by our academic, Cedomir Popov, who reminds almost every detail of this historic moment. Why does it matter? It is important that we know that from such a moment and such indistinguishability Serbia did come out and that there was someone who was far more responsible and realized that Serbia means much more. It wasn't that long ago, for example, for the historical science that deals with both this moment of the Serbian people's suffering and the mismanagement of politics. In my book "The Eastern Question and the Serbian Revolution 1804 and 1918", I will not bother you with the details, it is very important, because the public in Serbia is burdened with various problems and is able to forget some historical and similar episodes, just to remind you, it is Serbia under Prince Milan during the period of supremacy and domination of Austria, somewhere after 1878. The period can be considered the most sterile period from the point of national awareness of Serbs, but one parallel is so similar, we do not say that we are going through the same episode – these days we are criticising the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, because official sources also say Serbia is losing 267m euros. Here's what happened then and how much it's like. At that time, it could have been suggested that, for example, a hundred years later, the ultimatum that a monarchy had put before Serbia would have been openly discussed. Serbia then relied entirely on Austria, which has often been mentioned here lately. After 1878, Austria ultimatically asked Serbia to conclude a completely discriminatory trade agreement, watch out for similarities, under which the monarchy would receive the most privileged status in Serbia. According to academician Cedomir Popov: "This was the time that Serbia was in economic dependence on the Habsburg monarchy to the end of its control and remained at its mercy and mercy, which meant falling under political domination. In order to prevent Serbia from submitting to a powerful and Western state, the government of Jovan Ristic refused to sign such a trade agreement." As said academic Popov in the book "Eastern Issue and the Serbian Revolution", Prince Milan, who had already left himself without a reservation to the will of Vienna, shot down the government in October 1880 and formed the cabinet of the 'progressor' in its place. He brought to power a party that had little support for the people but the great favor of the rulers who would hold it in power for seven years and depended entirely on it. Very quickly, Prince Milan accepted the Hamburg Protectorate. In June 1881, he signed with his 'progress', according to Academyman Popov, the most famous contract in Serbian history in the 19th century known as the'secret convention' with Austro-Hungarian. The agreement was signed in secret with the foreign minister and committed by Serbia -- that it would not conclude any international agreement without the agreement of Vienna, nor would it allow any anti-Austrous propaganda in its territory. – A historical context so similar, that only the names of a new monarchy can be replaced. But what is the essence of this historic parallel? This is exactly the example that records how to get out of this situation, if you want to face it and look into the eyes of your people who suffer daily because of their misled policies. Because standards, directives, without thinking, are fulfilled and come from Brussels. The question that is being asked and related to this bill, as well as all these laws that we have passed so far, will a single bill mean a better day of life for the citizens of Serbia? If you won't, it's time to get your strength together and deal with the protectorate you've gotten into. These power centers that are located in Brussels and Washington, which have forged this political scene, led us to the brink of destruction, will eventually be the centres of power to look at their problems, and you ladies and gentlemen will be left before the courts of the people. Then you won't have one single argument if the people go to survive or cut their body parts to draw attention to the fact that there's nothing to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18958	Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18959	I thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a set of very interesting amendments to the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group. We have carefully observed all the amendments and another contribution to the fact that the law is not good is that the ruling majority also has a large number of amendments. These amendments, explained by fellow SPS MPs, are very interesting amendments. We will carefully consider these amendments until the end of this debate in detail. In voting day, we'll probably back those amendments. But it's a question of what the Parliament Club will do, and that's what I don't understand until the end, if the government stays in its position not to accept these amendments. That's one thing. The other thing is, you said a few interesting and important things, Mr. Petronievich. It is clear that the government has so far supported pensioners. When you consider that there are 50,000 new unemployed in the past few months, if you take into account that 20% of the drop in industrial production is in February 2009 to 2008, if the projections are that there will be a 5% decline in gross social product, which means that employment will be an additional 5%, then it is a serious question how to fill that budget and how pensioners will be protected in September or October of the month. I'm here to present the evaluations made by the Parliamentary Group and the DSS bodies, our resolution committees, but then I was corrected by my colleagues from the IMF. They said our estimate was that 11 pensions would be paid pretty optimistic, that they had a slightly different estimate, that it wouldn't be so. The second thing, what you were talking about, of course we support the need to regulate this area and it's not controversial, but are the areas regulated by just passing the law, or is there something else in practice? If we have one behavior in practice, and if we regulate it the other way, then it's also a serious problem. On the one hand, the government wants to help solve the problem of the unemployed, and on the other hand, the government owes the most, the government is the largest default in the Republic of Serbia. Of the 60,000 blocked companies, the largest number of enterprises is blocked by the Serbian state. Your colleague talks about Corridor 10 and infrastructure projects, but the government of the Republic of Serbia owes the most to construction companies. Due to the government of the Republic of Serbia, two thousand construction companies were shut down last year, 20,000 people remain in construction without a job because the government owes them 600m euros. It's one thing if you regulate it by law, and it's a whole other thing if in practice you do everything the opposite. We will support your amendments in the voting day, but it is a matter of what you will do in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18960	Replica, on what basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I have to explain why, don't you notice that she talks to me about this subject all the time? I'll be very brief. Otherwise, it's not my style to do it that way. You asked me earlier if I had in mind everything about... I had in mind, and I think it's a good government policy and it's gonna keep going like that. Second, you know what, he drinks all the water today when he goes public. It would be interesting if we could get the exact information from when those debts were due to the passengers, did that happen in the last six months? If it is, I apologize, here's a public apology. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I'm listening today and before that Rakovica doesn't work, giants don't work, so is it really possible that Serbia believes that they don't work for the last six months, or the last eight or nine months? At least give us more precise information to talk about when it comes to butter. This government is to blame for everything she didn't settle, but let's see if there's anyone else who hasn't settled down before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18962	Excuse me, Mr. Beard, do you want to get the amendment? Well, you've caused a replica and you've been held accountable, so you have no right to a new replica, so I apologize, you have no word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18963	As for the government, we can remember very easily that we ruled together for three years, so we were together in the coalition, and for the next two years the Democratic Party was in power, so you can ask them that, but my question was actually very simple. - We will support your amendments, what will you do if the Government rejects your amendments, as has already rejected them?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18964	Because of such a lively atmosphere, please welcome Mr. Milisav Petronievich, and let's finish with the question. What will happen when it will be?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18965	I know you tried to actually stop this replica. I promise you there will be no after that, no matter what. (President: Thank you for that, too.) We have supported the government for three years, and we bear no burden for it. We look forward to doing so, because it was Serbia's interest to do so and there is no dispute. By the way, I have to remind you, you remember well, and when we supported you, you remember well my amendments – you remember well that we had a fight with you about that famous member of the pension law where it's guaranteed when it falls below 60% that it will increase. So, don't you, or anyone else, expect us to support everything in any way, without telling us what we're thinking. We do not want to question these amendments to the government, nor the law, but we have the right to establish dialogue with our coalition partners publicly, to talk and to come to the best solution. Therefore, the stage of the amendments is now, when there is a vote, we will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18966	Thank you. Due to the passage of time, MP Sasa Dujovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. He suggests replacing Article 12, paragraph 3 in point 1) with the word "four" with the word "three", and the words "one of which is at least two" with the words "one of which is". In the same position, point 2) is amended and reads: "Six members on a proposal from the Social-Economic Council for the Republic of Serbia, three of whom are representatives of representative trade unions and three representatives of representative employers' associations". You have the word, Mr. Beard, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18967	By amendment, I will no longer report on this matter. It is clear to us that there is no condition and that it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, that these amendments are the conditions to fix something just to get an alibi with voters, and that this in no way affects the text of the law, as it is clear and that there is the Ministry of Labour in the government, and the minister of labour is not interested in the problem we are discussing at all. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18968	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Jovan Palalic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 14a be added after article 14. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18969	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this Article 14, we are trying, of course, after Article 14 of the new Article 14a, to determine the existence of a single body that effectively eliminates this law. This is the Supervisory Board of the National Employment Service. It is clearly seen from the fact that the National Employment Service does not have a supervisory board in which that status will be brought after the adoption of this law. As one of his colleagues said, will she be an independent organization or an organ in the ministry? Yes, she will be an organ within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development after the adoption of this law. No independence after the adoption of this law will have a more important issue than the existence of a supervisory board is a matter of controlling the work of the National Employment Service and primarily financial control. Why is the existence of a supervisory board in such a concept of employment and insurance laws extremely important in the event of unemployment? Because employment agencies are being introduced. Article 20 states that the employment agency informs of the opportunities and conditions of employment, intervening in employment in the country and abroad, professional orientations, career planning advice, implementation of certain active employment policies under the contract with the National Service. Article 27 says: "The National Service may, on the basis of the procurement procedure, hire the Agency to carry out certain jobs of employment... ''This means that in the National Service, we do not have a body that controls the financial operations of the service, and we have the legal possibility that the National Service will engage in a public procurement process by an agency formed by a private person and, by means of funds defined by it by both the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the paying agency. We have no control over how these funds are spent, how procurement procedures have been carried out and how jobs have been allocated. Therefore, a complete absence of business control of the National Employment Service will exist when such a concept of law is adopted. It will become an ordinary organ of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. They won't decide the jobs that will be assigned to the agencies. No director, no board of directors, but directly the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. Probably, I'm the minister. When you have no financial control in such a situation, then the question arises – what is the goal of forming agencies? The essence of this law is to abolish the independence of the National Service and form an agency. Hence, the question is raised and the answer is given – where these billions and by which the oldest unemployed citizens are denied, what their colleagues and DSS have been talking about, will be directed through these amendments. It will be directed through employment agencies, which no one will control. I therefore call on representatives of the ruling majority, given that the government has no intention of engaging in a change of concept, which it has proposed here, to adopt amendments, which in one normal way define an organisation such as the National Employment Service, which will be controlled. Let the Government appoint this Supervisory Board, but let the Supervisory Board have its tasks and let it control the way in which jobs are assigned to employment agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18970	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18971	Well, here, briefly, in this amendment, simply a relatively different concept that the DSS sees when it comes to the functioning of the National Employment Service also refers to the position of Director of the National Employment Service. The existence of even the National Service Management Board is completely unthinked. Then the Government should go to the end – neither should the Management Board, nor should any single body, when the Management Board cannot elect the Director, nor should the Management Board! Let there be a director appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister, and here's the story of the National Employment Service. We believe that the Director should appoint the Management Board in the structure we have talked about through these amendments, where all interested people who want to form a employment policy in Serbia will be presented, and that the Director shall appoint this Management Board in which, in the end of the line, the Management Board, which determines the employment policy, to which the Director will submit a report on work and will be responsible for its policy, based on and impact, as it is said here, in the presentation of this law, shall respond to the Management Board. There are all who are interested in implementing employment policies in the best possible way in Serbia, and not like this, the government will appoint a director, so that the director will be inserted into the Management Board and, behold, his voice will decide that the government, i.e. The economy and regional development ministry has full control over all employment segments in Serbia, past other representatives interested in implementing this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18972	By amendment, please, Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18973	I just wanted to comment on this amendment, which was submitted by my colleague, i.e. to ask the question: Is there any assumption that, as is the case now, in some future period, the Director of the National Employment Service, the Minister, under whose supervision the National Employment Service, the Management Board, etc. being from one game? Is there any possibility that you might be involved in labour control, carried out by the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development, that is, this service? Is there any way that you can participate, that there really isn't just the control of a party in this segment? Don't forget how many people are under that ministry, we'll have 10,000 new interns now. When we multiply all of this times two or times four, then you figure out what the essence of this service is, or who's in charge of it and what ministry it's under. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18974	One notice – that from half a minute ago we are not going on a regular transmission, but all of this will be shown in a delayed transmission during today's day. Thank you for understanding. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Elena Christmas Italian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction the MP Lidija Vukicevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Srboljub Zivanovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18975	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club is of particular importance and interest to what the policy of the Republic of Serbia will be in the area of employment, i.e. protection in the event of unemployment, and has therefore, with special and due attention, also addressed the proposal for this employment and protection law against the unemployment case. In this regard, we have submitted a number of amendments in order and with a desire for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to get a socially balanced, modern and efficient employment law and on insurance for unemployment, especially for the reason that, indeed, indicators in this domain do not seem encouraging in recent years because the unemployment rate in Serbia is about 20% and compared to some countries in the region, but also relative to some smaller ones. Also, the employment rate in the Republic of Serbia is low and ranges from 50-52% in the last few years of the active population, for example, compared to Slovenia which has 75% is a significantly lower level. In addition, if we look at the structure of the unemployed, which is very unfavourable, because it has a large number of young people and a large number of permanent unemployed, and when it comes to the structure of the employees, we can say that it is unfavourable, because there are indeed a small number of employees in the economy, economic activities, and it is possible to see this from both the level and the level of the regions, so there are large regional differences in this domain in terms of the movement in southern Serbia and, let's say, Belgrade. When we look at the gender structure, we can look at these specificities in certain regions where the rate of unemployment of women is very important. In that sense, it is indeed a very complex and significant problem and perhaps these effects of the crisis seem discouraging, but I think it is necessary to think in a way that, if there is no work today, it does not mean that, as far as tomorrow is not going to be, Serbia needs to be very well prepared and invested in the future. There are several issues that need to be raised when adopting this legislative project, above all, what means and what institutions will implement it. I would like to say that the motionary himself stated several reasons for the adoption of this law, and that is also the subject of the amendment to Article 28, which was submitted by the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, is to encourage more active integration of the provinces and local self-government in implementing an active employment policy. It is the proposal of Article 28 that leaves the possibility of a university-based establishment of local and rural employment councils. Our proposal in the amendment is heading towards the adoption of advice at local and regional level should be mandatory. Our amendment reads that in Article 28(1) and paragraph 3 the word “can” is deleted, allowing this option to be deleted. For what? Indeed, experience in Serbia shows that a number of municipalities, primarily those that fall within a circle of undeveloped still do not have these tips, and that a large number of have employment tips that exist only on paper and do not actually work. It is a good option that they exist in a college and that there are certain stimulants for their establishment, especially because territorial autonomy and local self-government can also be achieved by certain means of co-financing, but only if they have established local, or regional advice and provide at least 50% of the funding for co-financing with the option that undeveloped municipalities, which we really think is a good solution, can make certain funds, although they do not provide the 50% needed, which will be stimulating for them. It is clear that the problem of employment and protection in the event of unemployment is a very important issue and we do not think that it is necessary to leave to local self-governments to appreciate whether it is an important or irrelevant issue, it is a matter of state interest and should be allowed to introduce a mandatory establishment of local and rural councils to Article 28. So if we want to achieve an effect, we also see certain means provided, which is a condition that there are formed tips of local self-government and in the provinces, then we see no reason why in this sense we would leave the possibility of them to be academic. We think they should be mandatory. I'm sorry and, in part, are incomprehensible to some of the government's arguments for refusing our amendments. I appreciate that there is still time to accept certain amendments after these arguments brought out by the SPS-JS government MPs, respecting them in this time that remains. Of course, the SPS, or MPs, are not seeking any alibis in front of citizens, but we want this, I appreciate, constructive amendments to allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as I have already said, to get a modern socially balanced and efficient employment law and insurance in case of unemployment. Of course it's in the interest of all of us. I would therefore urge government representatives to reconsider our proposals and all MPs to support the SPS-JS amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18976	We skipped an amendment to article 15, and was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nikola Krpic and Sasa Dujovic. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18977	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, article 32 refers to the jobless's obligations. In the amendment that I have submitted together with my colleague Krpić, the following content – to delete point 1(2), this article, which reads: "determinate with the National Service an individual employment plan and respect all the rights and obligations it has". We do not believe that the obligation to adopt individual plans for all unemployed should be established, because this would be too much administration in adopting, for example, over 800,000 individual plans for the unemployed. There's been a lot of talk in the discussion in principle, so I assume you understand why we've submitted one of these amendments. However, individual employment plans should be carried out for people who are long-term unemployed, i.e. for longer hours on the labour market, for example, for more than six months or a year, as well as for harder employment of the surplus profession, persons with inadequate school supplies, sensitive populations, such as for example internally displaced persons, persons with disabilities, etc. Also, in this amendment, we have proposed that Article 2 be deleted. Now I'd like to explain why. We believe that it is not acceptable for a person whose national labour market has no financial obligations to ask for confirmation of an active job search, with the ultimate aim of erasing such a person from employee records. The result of the lack of evidence of active job search may be the loss of material and other benefits, but not the removal from unemployment records, which directly endangers the constitutional right to work. That was the explanation of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Nikola Krpić and Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18979	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the most visible, is one of the most effective after this debate that we have had today, related to the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, which is that the legislator should once again consider the amendments submitted by the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group on this legislative proposal. When it comes to the amendment to Article 35, I would like to say that this is another one in a series of amendments submitted by the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club in agreement with representatives of the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia and the United Union of 'Slog', namely, in Article 35 in item 1 after point 2), new points 3), 4 and 5 are added to report to the National Service the need for new employees; 4) to report advertising jobs; 5) to report filled jobs. This means that the existing points 3 and 4) are actually points 6 and 7. The bottom line is that only when there is data on the envisaged needs that should be specifically distinguished and really realised jobs can the National Employment Service bring quality forecasts and analytical insights into the labour market, while unemployed persons seeking employment can compete equally for jobs. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that all citizens have the same right to work. In Article 60(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established – all jobs are available under the same conditions, for which the prerequisite is for public advertising of jobs. So this is one logical solution, because to whom the employer will give the need, if not to the National Employment Service. If the employer has no obligation, then what is the purpose of the National Employment Service? How will the National Employment Service intervene in employment without the employer’s declared need? Also, I wanted to say that when we have parliamentary majority and coalition governments like the one we have in Serbia, it is perfectly logical that the parliamentary majority and coalition governments, which make up several political parties, at certain times on extremely important issues, as representatives of the parliamentary majority and coalition government, have different views, different views, different suggestions and suggestions. If everyone thought the same thing, if everyone thought the same thing, that would mean we weren't thinking well. We're really trying to think just fine. The government, the parliamentary majority, political parties that make up the parliamentary majority in Serbia, on issues that are of paramount importance, of exceptional importance to the citizens of Serbia, lead one open, one direct dialogue with which it is a place in the Republic Parliament. Of course, our goal isn't, as it was just said here, to bring down the bill we're talking about today. We want, I repeat, through an open dialogue, through an open debate, to say, a transparent debate in the Republic of Parliament, through amendments that we have submitted to the draft law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment, to come up with a more high-quality legal solution that will be in the interest of Serbian citizens. I appeal to you once again, please review the amendments submitted to this legislative proposal by the SPS-JS Parliament Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18980	The 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the title above the article of the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the title above the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jadranko Vukovic and Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Krpić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18981	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now going to a set of amendments showing the true face of this government. We will all remember when the Prime Minister said in an exposé that this government will be socially responsible and that all measures of the government's policy will be directed to protect the most socially vulnerable. The entire government policy was to promote European principles, European policies and social responsibility in all segments. It is this amendment and this member, where compensation is reduced, both the upper and lower limits of compensation, of those who are in a position to seek employment in the most difficult economic conditions for such a thing, that speaks of the absence of any social responsibility of this government. It is not possible to imagine that in a situation where a large number of companies are fired, a large number of employees will have the opportunity to secure new employment for a relatively short period of time. So the reduction of compensation in price increases, reduced opportunities for new employment is something that, certainly, no longer can be recommended by this government as socially responsible. And, if you're looking for some way to finally make that mystery about social responsibility, that flossula that, for months now, has been provided to the public through various channels that it's socially responsible, this member and member of the 72nd is being denied by that particular government. Then we listen to the argument, during the defense of this law, that these funds that are being cut down by a large number of our citizens who have lost their jobs will be directed, as they say, into active employment measures. And in a situation where we do not see at all what this employment policy will look like on the basis of a solution in this law, because it will be conducted only in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, except, which I would like by who knows which way to remind me here, which is a new institution that needs to solve all the problems of unemployment in Serbia, which are, employment agencies. They need to carry out active measures, help these unemployed who will be taken with the funds they have so far and will be directed to the agencies. To be clear, the agencies will receive jobs through the procurement process and will be paid by these funds that are now taken from the unemployed who are at the labour market office. These members who directly abuse the government, when it comes to social policy, because there is no one more vulnerable now than the unemployed, no one needs more support than the unemployed, the government shows on this case that it is absolutely not interested. I call on the government to respect the amendments and arguments that we have heard today, especially on this issue, to accept amendments, not to go into this procedure that will greatly damage a large number of our citizens, but to hear the problems we now have in terms of employment and that this level of living standards, minimal, difficult, is difficult for everyone when they run out of work, to keep at least that level that has been so far. Let's not create new phantom agencies that will solve all our problems, but rather run a real policy, and one way is not to lower the unemployment benefits on the labour market! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18982	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18983	This is the second member who is completely unclear, for which reasons, reducing the rights of the unemployed. We have a situation that the hardest thing to do right now is to find a job right now for our citizens who have 25 years of standing, who have had opportunities through various privatisation procedures, through situations of economic crisis, to run out of work. Now to those who have the most difficulty, they need to go through a variety of kinds of requalifications, prequalification, they need to get into a new job that, given the length of the internship, was a side to them, to simply go into an active job search for work, to lower the fee and at the same time, the period in which they have the right to receive compensation by one year. Indeed, when you look at these two members this way, you see that those who are the most difficult to solve employment issues and have a minimal level of existence are the ones most affected by this law. It's totally amazing, and we're talking about social policy, the socially responsible government, what needs to be the first thing in the economic crisis situation, of course, in addition to supporting the economy and economic development. I call on the Government to give up this concept that has been declared here when it comes to employment, to give the National Employment Service the powers it has so far and not to enter into such restrictive measures when it comes to the unemployed who are now the most difficult and yet have to enter into that whole requalification, retraining business, preparing for a new job, and we are now lowering those rights both at the height and at the length of the duration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-04-0.u18984	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 89th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nikola Krpić and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On behalf of the head of the 95th Amendment, MP Vladan Jeremic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 95th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) Members of the 95th Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment was submitted by a National MP. Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Nobody wants a word. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No one's asking for a word. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No one. He wants a word) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, this is the end of today's session, with the proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation of disabled persons, scheduled for Tuesday, May 5th, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
