ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32697	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, Milica Radovic, Zeljko Tomic, Nada Kolundžija. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the search in particular of the 22nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on a Single Election List, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, called for the session to be attended by Zoran Petrovic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. We move to the 22nd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE UNITING BIRD OF THE LIST (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Vjerica Radet, Vladan Batić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jojic, Sreto Perić, Željko Tomić, Zoran Krasić, Boris Alexic, Dejan Mirović, Milorad Bhuha, Zoran Babić, Bozidar Delić, Ljiljana Miladinović, Jovana Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Oto Kišmarton, as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta. The amendment was accepted by the government and the Justice Committee, but will be declared by the Assembly in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32698	Mrs. Komic, just to point out that if I speak for more than two minutes, it will be the time of the authorised representative. Article 1 of the proposal of this law states in the first sentence: The Single Election List (hereinafter referred to as the Election List) is a public document which keeps records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote. The reason why I want to talk about our amendment, although the government accepted it, is precisely the fact that in its proposal, the government did not foresee that the single electoral list includes records, a unique record of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that was precisely the amendment of the SRS and, of course, it is good that the government accepted the amendment. As it would have been very good if she had accepted other amendments to the SRS for one simple reason why it is generally known that the SRS has been back years, I would have said for decades, most sincerely advocated the introduction of a single electoral list into the electoral system of the Republic of Serbia and the Supervisory Board, as two elements that are an absolute prerequisite for the regularity of the elections in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is interesting here and what needs to be highlighted is the fact that it was in October 2000 that the SRS initiated the adoption of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and the law provided for the existence of a single electoral list and the existence of a supervisory board. What we achieved in 2000 is that the SRS reached an absolute consensus around the law and did something that seems almost incredible from the present distance, we united both the government and the opposition and the extraparliamentary party. Anyone who existed on Serbia's political scene at the time was sincerely pushing for the introduction of a single electoral list into our electoral system. I'm stressing, and a monitoring board, which you don't want to talk about any further. The problem arose just in 2000, following the elections when the DOS took over power in the Republic of Serbia and from that moment on, DOS representatives in the RIK forgot that by 2000, together with representatives of the SRS, they advocated a single polling list. You tried to impose on the public the thesis that the collection of electoral lists by municipalities, or local self-government, is a unique voter list. The consequences of such a radical stance are that in the Republic of Serbia, all the elections from the aspect of the single electoral list and the supervisory board are on reasonable suspicion. After each election, our members in RIK issued their opinion, did not sign reports and lead, or we started constitutional complaints after each election, but unfortunately in Serbia in the last nine years or we had a regimeal Constitutional Court, or we did not have, as we do today, the Constitutional Court. You, Mr. Chiplic, were at that time in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and you know that we have filed these constitutional appeals and, indeed, as a lawyer above all, I cannot understand that someone who was also a lawyer could consider that the absence of a single electoral list is not a reason to cancel the election. The fact that Milan Markovic, who is normally in charge of this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the truth today you are as a duty minister and indeed, as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, we respect that fact, because you have even been able to actively engage on every law, although this is how they bring you into the Assembly. So Milan Markovic said that an up-to-date and precise voter list is a basic prerequisite for regular, legally valid and democratic elections. This is an excellent statement and this is a fact, but it is not clear to us why Mr Milan Markovic, when we reiterated what he said, which is why from that moment on he went into another tactics, which is to avoid the National Assembly and the People's MPs, because only from this sentence did we draw a completely logical conclusion - that the lack of an up-to-date and precise electoral list actually meant that there was no such prerequisite for regular, legal rolling and democratic elections. He also said Mr. Milan Markovic that the unique polling list will significantly contribute to the accuracy and accuracy of voter records. This, too, only logically leads to Mr. Milan Markovic's view that the lack of a voter's list has significantly contributed to the inaccuracy, the impedience of voter records. If we have an incorrect and unscheduled voter record, then certainly that puts a serious shadow to every election you call democratic. It is true that the SRS has always recognised the election results, that we have always been the first to come out with election results because we know that we are working and because we have always respected the will of the citizens, unlike all the others in this House who have used that fact depending on when it was politically appropriate for them. The result of such thinking is the fact that we in parliament today have 22 MPs less than the SRS won in the last parliamentary elections. Also, what is not good is that you, in none of these laws which, according to Milan Markovic, are changing the political system in the country, do not foresee the existence of a supervisory board, which also exists regulated in one of the laws on the selection of MPs, but unfortunately nine years ago neither of them acted in any election. What would his role be? Its role would be just as the law provides - to make sure that the pre-election campaign is conducted in accordance with the law, to monitor the media, or to force the media to comply with the electoral law, and what is most important, not to abuse in the electoral silence the fact that the parties that are in power from that aspect are taking part in the campaign by showing up on the last day of the campaign all possible and impossible ministers, cutting the tapes, opening the roads and trails, and then as not an election campaign. As now, here at the Vozdovac municipality, you've all seen that Mr. Gilas opened up some hospital in Zuca. True, there is an object there, but the SRS candidate for the president of the municipality, MP Bojan Mladenovic, with SRS activists, left the next day and the public could see in some media that reported it was just an object, that it was a building that was not at all equipped and not prepared for the function of home health. It's an absolute abuse. If we had an active supervisory board to choose this assembly, as the Law on the Selection of MPs says, we would not have such problems. I'm sorry Milan Markovic isn't here, but I'd like to remind him of a letter he sent to RIK on 24 November. What's this about? RIK noted that in KIM territory there are absolutely unscheduled polling lists and not only on the number of voters listed, where there are a large number of people who have died, and that is the problem in the whole territory of the Serbian state, where there are also those who are enrolled in several places, and then during the day they can vote in several polling stations, and it is known to be DS practice and vote like that. Not to mention the yellow packets that are worn for several days or days during the electoral silence, which are worn to citizens and how citizens are severely insulted and humiliated. Unfortunately, in the situation where you brought the people to Serbia that a million people have nothing to eat and that 300 thousand children do not have a third meal, then it is completely humanly understood that someone should kneel before that fact to bring him a kilo of sugar and a kilo of flour and a liter of oil, and to count on the next two days having children to eat and to vote beyond their will. This is all because you don't actually want regular elections. So, since the electoral commission has noticed problems in the voter lists such that a large number of citizens are registered without a home number. Now, Mr. Chipletic, I'd like to hear your opinion and as minister, above all as former Constitutional Court judge: do you think it's regular for someone to be listed in the electoral list without his home number in the voter's list? We have information that last night was an interesting debate on RIK, it could already be quoted as an anecdote, where a fellow member of the RIK, named Miodrag Petrovic, insisted that it is regular if there is no home number next to the name and last name of the voters, and then RIK member from the SRS asked that colleague and other colleagues whether it would have been regular a few years ago, while, for example, the famous actor Miodrag Petrovic was alive and that it happened that RIK member and this Miodrag Petrovic lived in the same address. Who could determine which one of them was, and one only went to the polls, who could determine which one of them voted that day? So the unique parent number is something that has to exist. An interesting letter addressed by Milan Markovic to RIK. He says, "Your letter of 16 November 2009 addressed the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government with a request to monitor the up-to-date voter list in the municipality of Leposavic, the Law on the Selection of a National MP, and the Official Messenger, in Article 23(4)." says the minister, "it is prescribed that the ministry in charge of the administration's affairs will monitor the implementation of provisions of this law relating to the electoral lists no later than 20 days before the day of the elections. Since the elections for the So Leposavic committee were scheduled for 29 November 2009, we would like to inform you that the law has set a deadline for monitoring the voter's list." So, not a word about what with voters without a home number listed in the voter's list. I also spoke in the principle debate and SRS MPs were saying, "Every time on election day, because this job, of course, we're seriously working, we have a lawyer's duty at the SRS headquarters and dozens of people on the phone, which is what those who live in Belgrade are showing up and saying -- last time I voted at that and that polling station, now I'm not on the polling list, what am I supposed to do? So, voting lists are, unfortunately, a means by which DS can and sets up results. The fact that in a large number of municipalities you owned or were part of the government, you used that fact to have ballots from almost all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. You set up your ballots as, of course, when local elections are at stake, as you set up election units, so you estimate where DS goes well, so you make an election unit, you connect them to a single constituency unit, so you can get more votes on that election unit, that is, at that polling spot. So we know exactly what kind of malfeasance you've been doing and what kind of malfeasance you're doing. Unfortunately, this law, by the way, should not have been passed at all, Mr. Chiplic, we also told Mr. Milan Markovic. There is a Law on the selection of MPs and a member of the 12th law, which provides for the existence of a single electoral list. The thing is, in the last nine years, you've had to make a unique voter list. You're not even close to solving this problem today. And this day ye have men who are enrolled in Lazarus, and in the crown of Sheba, and on the same day they shall vote in Lazarus, and in Sheba. Why are you instructing members of your election boards at the polling station not to give a voter list to any member of the electoral board from a permanent or extended group of, say, SRS? You don't give because the voter list is something that you can manipulate in a polling post. With all due respect, with a large number of election board members present, you can do it because you do such things. You know that we have also told you about this after some elections that your people are waiting somewhere outside the polling station for voters to give them a stuffed ballot and that when they return their empty ballot to get 10 euros, before 10 marks, because from that time on, that practice exists. When they return an empty ballot that they re-fill with that one ballot, they spin as many times as you want, and then they can round up someone who has died, and they give someone by mistake two ballots, because they know that someone who died can't show up at the polling station, and they know it in advance because they also had members of the voter's voter's list and they could do all the manipulations that are in the daily-political interest of the DS. Mr. Chipplic, first of all, the law is surreal, and we will prove it to you during the debate. By passing this law you only satisfy the form, because you don't care about the essence, because if you did, you would have acted on Article 12. The law on selecting MPs and we, like all modern democracies in the world, would have clean electoral lists. The essence of the voter's list, we told Milan Markovic, is not what you predicted here that someone could report that in the election days instead of Belgrade they would be in Leskovac, so that they would vote there. The essence of the single voter list, Mr. Chiplic, I am convinced that you agree with this, but you are probably not going to say that the essence of the voter list is that if you vote in Novi Sad to appear anywhere in any polling post in the Republic of Serbia, it will stand on record that you are listed in the polling list in Novi Sad. It couldn't have happened if you were enrolled in two polling stations and couldn't possibly have happened to vote dead souls. In addition, the affairs about it and the manipulation of what the real number of voters in the Republic of Serbia would really be if the list was cleared, it was up to date with any republican elections. Unfortunately, it will also be after this law, because this law does not solve a problem whose resolution would ultimately represent one regular election in the Republic of Serbia, so that we can all say – yes, it is the will of the citizens, no one in any way has manipulated the will of the citizens, so what the citizens say, their will every serious party, and the SRS is, will always respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32699	Time was used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group and three minutes from the time available to the SRS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Vladan Batic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has not spoken, we will decide on it in the day of the vote. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32700	I am sorry that Mr Ciplic came out, because Mrs Pop-Lazic has submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that a really important part of Article 3 in position 2 is changed, so that the possibility is not given, as the promoter here wrote, that the content of use, management, correction and conclusion of the electoral lists and the implementation of parts of the electoral lists for local self-government units, as well as other issues of importance, complete and correct management, is prescribed by the minister responsible for the state administration and local self-government. You acknowledge, or the legislator, that he was not the goal at all and the intention to speak in Serbia, as Mrs Radeta has said today, and what we have demonstrated in the principle debate, to establish a single electoral list. You remember, Mrs. Comic, when I spoke in principle, there was again the deputy secretary, Mr. Pudar, that I passed on our experience, our MPs, from a month and a half ago from visiting Finland, not only the parliamentary delegations, but Mr. Pudar was as a deputy secretary, members of RIK, people who work in RIK, who are technical persons, where we met with a completely different experience and asked us explicitly whether you have a unique electoral list. I said we don't. I particularly insisted that it was impossible, that our colleagues there and confirmed that some performances, here you have seen through a number of examples of abuses that were, and now they only admit it in the title that some unique electoral list is impossible without the establishment of a special state body, as they have, such as the Russian Federation, as many other states have, to establish a single voter list. We were forbidden to operate with the Deputy Director of the State Register, visit there and exchange experiences, handle each other for security reasons. Besides, their software is connected to the MUP. Please tell me here, and it will be seen through these numerous examples of ill-written law, especially works relating to the update of data to be done by the MUP, instead of residence and residence, because the voter is now able to vote according to this vote law and in the place where he currently resides, that there will be numerous abuses. Another fact that is very important, many examples were mentioned by Mrs. Radeta, and here in my midst, I will make sure that our polling stations are in a catastrophic state. The ignorantness of members of the election boards, of not even speaking. Here's a colleague from RIK who probably didn't tell Mrs. Radeta, who belonged to this ZES coalition, gave such an interpretation that it was possible to vote without seeing the unique birth number. It's the same for you in the forest villages. At the polling stations, a man shows up and says, "We've had cases from the Raška area too, but here we are, and that's the case." My wife's home, she's old, she's sick, she can't, here's her ID, let her vote. In the village of Botunje near Kragujevac, just seven kilometers from the city, it is the periphery of the city, where the election process takes place there is that furunche where members of the election boards are heated, only permanent members of the election board can be found inside. Those of you who are in an extended congregation say, "It's a small place, you see, we only have this one warm body, the rest of you go outside or take a walk, eat lunch, then when you come back." In the center of Kragujevac, in the settlement of Erdogli, in the Ipsilon saltiter, the voting process takes place for so many settlements in one cafe. Who's in there? Only permanent members of the constituency board and barmaid who cooks coffee, and you know well that no one other than members of the electoral board, those designated by the state, can be found in the polling station. So for those who are in an extended session, whether they are from the SRS, LDP, DSS, they say – get out, there is no room, and that's why the bartender is there. She occasionally wipes out the bar, cooks coffee, meanwhile inserts some ballot and then we come into the situation that the Kragujevajska City Election Commission, in every election, because it is an organ entrusted to care for, that polling stations be opened and that the election process starts on time, must later, therefore, at sessions to determine the results of the vote. Why do we have so many invalid ballots? The percentage is alarming, he was listed in a report by observers of the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Even 3% are in the total number of voters. It's precisely for these reasons that Verica mentioned, that there's no updated voter list, that suits you, because it's a great way to manipulate. RIK had to meet after the 2007 presidential elections, to bring a binding guide for each election committee in Serbia, therefore, to pay attention to the symptomatic appearance of so many invalid ballots. After checking, when we insisted, Mr. Todorovic and the members of the RIK from the SRS and opened the sacks, it turned out they were not invalid at all. For example, in Kragujevac, there has been an unambiguous voter's will to vote for the SRS, but besides, you know, it happens, experienced people know, or write something, some message, usually it's a message that is being sent and supported by President Seselj. The one there says -- what this says here, which is, by the way, the SRS-Vojislav Seselj election list, round number 4, here is something written, not valid. Later, the City Election Commission found it to be a valid ballot. We, at 16 polling stations in Kragujevac, changed the result of the vote in a subsequent check and determination. That was half-half, half for Stevanovic's coalition, half for the SRS list, which for parliamentarys, which for local elections. So, Mr. Minister, you saw yourself from the State Auditing Institution report that the biggest abuses were, here this morning we heard on one television, about 100m euros to get a computer, and we're told that no local self-government units are trained to do this job on an up-to-date basis, because they're technically not equipped. It is now established, i.e., that the subsequent check will show that the biggest thief was in the purchase of equipment, computers, various contracts, various manipulations, and you are not able to establish a special state body, a register that would make sure that every voter was registered with its own exact home number and that, if someone there clickes on the computer, not everyone, but an authorized person, sees that they have it in both Suotica and Kragujevaca, and in Piroth, and in Surdulica, and in Zrenjanin, with its unique birth number and that it is only run once. In addition, by establishing such a state body, and you see, you are giving all the powers of the minister, which is trying to correct Mrs. Pop-Lazic, and she says – the law will fix it, the minister can't handle some of his regulations, because you see how the election results of DS members are interpreted, it's a disaster. So that's the only way, if the law clears this area, we can hope to have as many regular elections as we will in the future. Now, I've just given you a few examples, believe me, you know that probably from your environments, it's impossible to talk about the complete regularity of the electoral process, especially in a situation where there is no supervisory authority. Ms. Elena Christmas-Talijan has been the only chairman of the Supervisory Board since 1990, from the first multiparty elections to today, and we have insisted, in fact, that our president, when those presidential elections were held, were manipulated by the non-existent voices of Shipara at KIM, that then the electoral supervisory authority was established, when you abolished and when you gave the inability to continue to have the electoral process monitored, your coming to power. Therefore, you were neither able to hold any votes after the election, 24 September 2000, nor to determine the number of voters, nor that in this vote for the president of the state, Vojislav Kostunica had more votes than Slobodan Milosevic, that there was not exactly a record from every polling post of the SRS, which showed in all election processes from 1992 to today, that there were the most disciplined, most disciplined people who were doing their job responsibly in the interests of the state and the regular implementation of the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32701	Ten minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken out, and this amendment will also be voted on in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32702	Article 5 speaks of the jurisdiction to enroll in the voter list and says that voters who are not listed in the voter's list are listed in the voter list until its completion by the municipal, or city administration, and from its conclusion until 72 hours before the election day, the ministry responsible for the administration. We Serbian radicals think it's 72 hours too long and it should be 48 hours. For what? Because our view is that as many citizens as possible should be allowed to vote, it should be possible for every citizen to vote, but since the fact that there is, conditionally speaking, perhaps irresponsible or people who do not know what to do, that they should check whether they are in the voter's list, etc., given the impedience and non-communication between the MUP and local self-government, which will be when this law comes into force, because there is nothing to be fixed and the man thinks, if he reports that he has changed his address, that he no longer resides in Zajecar, but in Sombor, he thinks that this job is finished when it comes to the electoral list and doesn't go to check in the municipality where he moved and turns out on election day that he is not listed in the vote list. We think that this deadline must be maximumly shortened, so that as many citizens as possible can make an insight and make a change, and in electronic communication as it exists, you have been saying that you can't introduce a single polling list because, I don't know, 10 or 12 municipalities in Serbia don't have a computer, which is really an explanation that even a child in kindergarten would smile. But if we have electronic communication, and we have, how well do you communicate electronically, so you don't have to be there, you can e-mail yourself, if we have that kind of communication, then we really don't see a reason for this deadline to be this long and to stay for three whole days, when no correction can be made on the voter's list. Why did I want to comment on this amendment? Because you say - cutting the proposed deadline for delivering a subsequent entry solution would be a question of timely implementation of these solutions in statements from the electoral lists and delivery of election material to all voters, election committees who, when elections are conducted throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have more than 8,000. Mr. Chiplet, this is a scandal you wrote. Mr. Chiplic, when elections are held throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and so is KIM, then 9,200 polling stations in the Republic of Serbia. The fact that every polling post cannot be opened because of the current situation is a particular issue, but that you write that there are 8,000 polling stations in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and that you absolutely ignore KIM territory is a scandal, Mr Chiplic. Even in the part of KIM, where elections can be held, if you included it then you would say there are 8,400 polling stations and in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia 9,200 polling stations. Mr. Chiplicu, this way you first accept EULEX, and then giving visas except for citizens living in KIM, so before that signing any international agreements, where KIM is in a certain way separated from the Republic of Serbia in this way, in fact, step by step, you accept the fact that you do not say, you acknowledge that KIM is not part of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this is a scandal. For us, Serbian Radicals, KIM was, now and being an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, is the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chiplic learn, there are 9,200 polling stations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32703	Four minutes and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't take this personally, but given your capacity, I'm not going to say that you are the Minister of General Practice, you are one graduate lawyer and Master of Legal Science, and just for the very reason that you appear here very often as a representative of the Government, I would like to give my humble opinion to the Prime Minister. Here's a good opportunity, and objectively there are needs to be rationalized in the government. Since I'm quite serious, you're successfully representing the government here and on behalf of your ministry, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the Ministry of State Administration once upon a time, it's a little unclear to me, you represented the government here, and when the laws for protecting the health of Serbian citizens were on the agenda. Let's treat it as an objective need of the government, but indeed Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic should have this in mind and that you can successfully represent the merger of the ministries. Don't take any of this personally, and don't realize it's directed against you, but you might be able to convey this opinion. To return to the amendment submitted by the SRS to Article 6 of this Act. Ms. Verica Radeta, as an authorised representative of the SRS, when speaking about this law in principle, said that we believe that the law on the single electoral list is not necessary. Now I'm going to make a contribution. You all know that there is no marriage law in Serbia, but there is a simple civil marriage regulated by another law, and we think it should be. It's also a unique electoral list, not that it's necessary, but without it, there's no legal choice, and that's why you'd have to regulate yourself more perfectly and better than you've suggested this law, the electoral laws, as we've had so far. Article 1 does not speak at all about what the matter of this law is but immediately goes on that unique voter list and is said to be a condition that someone would vote, to be listed in the single voter list, as if it had not been so far. And so far, such an absolute situation has been and otherwise could not be voted at all. Although we belong to the same parliamentary club and the same MP party Mrs. Verica Radeta and I, which is why you insist so much on the supervisory board. It is necessary, but we also have a DRI. It was too late to pass, and I think the state is the last one, not in the region, but in Europe that passed this law. Well, then someone's a celebrity, and first of all, it seems to me, from party G 17 plus said, well done, here we are, and we have that law. When the effects of work are seen now, I don't get into it, I don't want to reevaluate what's true, when the effects of that body are seen, then it's a little bit of a problem, and whether four perpetrators could do the job in a good way, and whether it took only 14 ministries to control, not all budget users, and all of it was that they had to control one budget user. If there are certain irregularities they must be sanctioned. Of course, we're pushing for it to go through its legal procedure, not anything in advance, not anything in place, which is why the law does not provide. Mr. Chipplic, I suppose now as a man of the legal profession you can see that we are consistently in favour of compliance with all the legal rules, because then the legal system has meaning and it is important if all its provisions are observed consistently. When we propose legal proposals very often and we will continue to submit amendments, it is only our desire to make it applicable, to make it possible not to leave a dead letter on paper. You have accepted a number of amendments, I would say bigger than usual, though, by independent MPs, it is absolutely irrelevant, because every MP's rights are exactly the same, regardless of whether it belongs to the opposition or to the position, because when we go to the elections we do not say in advance we will be in position or opposition, but we are competing to gain citizens' trust, so that we will do something in their interest. Mr Vladan Batic's amendment to Article 2 has been accepted. He has better defined Article 2's position than it is in the draft law, but his proposal, which the government accepted, lacked analysis of data from the voter's list. We think it's necessary to run an analysis of the data on the polling list, and I've already talked about it, so it's going to have to start some alarms, see what it's for. I'll list a few municipalities that I'm absolutely sure is. It is Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Loznica, where there is no big difference between the total number of inhabitants and those of the citizens who have the right to vote. What does that indicate? It suggests that it is the environments that are very lagging very much behind in terms of economy and that these parts, I would say, very little is being taken into account by this government. It's in continuity like that. This is not the case today, it's been a long time and let it mean something to you, and based on an analysis of the voter's list you can determine and make a proposal for a plan how and in what way to try to make demographic structure, to change the age structure in those places because, among other things, it is the purpose of this government and the executive government. You said there were 8,000 polling stations. That's where you got the exact information from the representative of the SRS. Believe that in many, of 9,200 or 8,450, or as you say, 8,000, many polling stations in the hills, in passive places there are with a table, as the law has established a minimum number, and somewhere even below the number of tables. What does that tell you? It suggests that we're a very old country and that we need an intervention here too. This law should not be seen as a law on the basis of which a certain number of people will only go to polling stations and vote there. Our opinion is and we are in principle that the electoral right is exercised on the basis of the place of residence, but we respect the legislator's insistence to allow for voting on the basis of the place of residence. We want to avoid any suspicion of the possibility of abuse on the day of the vote. That's why we're putting up with the amendments, and you don't accept it. The previous amendment, submitted by counterpart Petar Jojic, only wants to leave as many opportunities as possible for those not listed in the voter's list to be able to vote. We know because of the wrong, inefficient, poor government policies that a large number of people do not want to go to the polls, and you saw that the latest survey to say that 44% of Serbian citizens are absolutely unhappy with what the current government is doing. They don't want to go to elections and not go out. We want every citizen of Serbia who shows a desire and will to go to the elections to make it possible for him if, by any chance, he is missing from the voter's list. We know that these deadlines are relatively short, but we need to shorten that deadline from 72 hours to 48 hours to allow anyone who can vote, because there's no known case of a man who's been deprived of his right to vote and every time elections were held, not saying who he wants to vote for, he had to cry, because that day he felt it was much less valuable than another man. We know when the elections and academics, and the shepherd, and the farmer and university professor are equally valid and equally valuable. That is why we propose that amendments to Articles 5 and 6 be accepted, because this will then improve the quality of this law and allow the correction of the mistakes that have been made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32705	Seven minutes and 25 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32706	In Article 6(2), paragraph 2 at the end of the text is replaced by a comma and words are added - with a sign of where they will vote. That's what we've been looking for with this amendment. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, that item 2 reads -- the voter who has a residence abroad is listed in the polling list at the last residence of one of his parents, by recording data on his residence abroad. So what is the objective and what is the purpose of this amendment? Why is it necessary, in addition to enrolling in the voter's list of data on his residence abroad, to register a sign of where he will vote? If the legislators' intentions are sincere and to prevent, to the extent possible, any possibility of abuse and manipulation, then this clause should also be introduced, the clause should be put in place to indicate where the voter will vote abroad. How will it be better controlled if that voter voted right there? However, a second fundamental question arises -- is devaluation of the electoral will of voters, and with the resulting devaluation of that unique voter list, if, after the elections have been completed, it violates the electoral will of the voters and abuses their will? Mr. Minister, have you ever or heard of it, I don't want to ask you if you've made any decisions as judge of the Constitutional Court without a session? I think that is an illusory question, but what would you say about the voter's list and about the election will of citizens if I told you that one judge as president of the electoral commission made a decision without a session of the electoral commission, what is there a number of evidence about, in general, everyone, and most Serbian citizens? The judge was elected the other night as Attorney General in Požega. Mr. Minister, I have complete documentation. The judge, acting president of the Lucani Municipality's electoral commission, has decided to assign the committee's mandate to a completely different person, I say, without holding a session of the electoral commission. This is Judge Jelena Curcic, the current judge of the municipal court in Guca. Mr. Minister, direct violation of the electoral will of the citizens. What's the value of that list in the Luciani municipality when it happened? I have complete documentation on this, and we will provide complete documentation to the competent authorities, the public prosecutor and the others, but what is it worth when it's possible in the state of Serbia, Mr. Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32707	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed an amendment so that in Article 6(3), which reads - an internally displaced person is entered in the electoral list according to the place in which he was reported as an internally displaced person - the point is deleted and the words 'or in the place of the current stay, with the indication of where he votes' are added. The government gave the following explanation - that the amendment is not accepted because it is allegedly contrary to Article 12. The Law on residence and residence of citizens, which found that citizens staying outside their place of residence for more than 15 days are obliged to report their residence and to check out immediately prior to departure. Mr. Chiplic, and your colleagues in the government, seem to forget the fact that the status and position of internally displaced persons is not the same as that of other RS citizens, as it is, unfortunately, with unfortunate historical and political opportunities, an internally displaced person in a situation that has even three places to live. One is his residence, which is listed in the ID card, which is located on the KIM territory, that is, in parts of KIM where Serbs unfortunately cannot live, because of the fact that the Cypriot so-called. Interim institutions, KFOR and Eulexes did not provide minimum conditions for the normal life of Serbs in those areas. The second place of life is where an internally displaced person is located in the territory of the so-called area. Serbia's rope reported. The third option is that this person is currently out of place where he is listed as an internally displaced person. You know that internally displaced persons are unfortunately forced to cope in various ways, in order not to provide bread for themselves and their children, and that it is possible that in the day when elections are held outside the place where they are otherwise registered as internally displaced persons and that we would allow those persons, so that I repeat to those citizens of RS, who, without my own guilt, cannot live and vote in their place of residence, would allow them to exercise this fundamental civil and political right, we predicted that such a person would vote and out of place in which he was otherwise reported as an internally displaced person, with a mandatory indication of where he voted. The government has rejected this by calling completely wrong on the Law on residence and residence of citizens, who only says that persons staying outside their place of residence must report their residence if they stay for more than 15 days. What if they stay less than 15 days? This is the meaning of our amendment, that citizens of the RS who are internally displaced, who are staying outside of the place where they are reported as internally displaced persons, less than 15 days, are allowed to vote in the place where they are currently located, with a mandatory indication of where such a person will vote. The RS government, instead of accepting the amendment, instead of allowing those citizens who are more objectively living and are in a difficult situation than other RS citizens, instead of allowing them to exercise their electoral rights, it does not do so, completely wrongly referring to the Law on residence and residence of citizens. It's just amazing that the Serbian government won't accept reality. The reality is, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, that Serbs currently internally displaced with KiM cannot vote in their place of residence, are not always in a place where they are reported as internally displaced persons, but probably in search of work or the need to resolve other social rights, are located outside of a place where they are reported as internally displaced persons and instead of allowing those citizens to vote where they are in fact, and that may be time and less than 15 days, you are, by refusing our amendment, practically a good part, practically a good part of these people to take away the electoral right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32709	Two minutes and 40 seconds used the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić and Željko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32710	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, if I speak for over two minutes, it will be at the expense of an authorised promoter. First of all, with all the respect of the present minister, I am very sorry that Mr Markovic is not here because it would be a good opportunity to open up a dialogue on amendments and at all on this law, because this law certainly falls within the law category where dialogue is necessary. I have already said in the debate in the principle that the DSS considers it appropriate to pass a law on a single voter's list and how carefully I have listened to the views of other parties, I think that no one actually disputes, that the law on a single voter's list should be passed. Of course, you should keep two things in mind. First, in my deep confidence, whether someone is in power today or in opposition, I think that all serious political parties have an interest in the law on the single voter's list being such that it completely prevents any irregularities in the election process, whether it is intentional or not, it is all one thing, and in that sense, I think it is very serious to consider the amendments that have been tabled not only by the DSS but also by other opposition parties. Secondly, this is a specific kind of law, namely the laws dealing with elections in any way, whether they are electoral laws for various forms of government, whether this is one law on a single voter's list. So these are laws that, as a rule, should not be passed by revote and should be passed with the widest possible consensus. Given the number of amendments adopted, it is obvious that the legislators do not care much about it, I would say, the original democratic rule, that in a country that is represented as a democratic country, such laws really need to be passed with the highest consensus rather than a simple vote. We have not submitted many amendments, we have submitted only six, actually four, because the two consequences of the one submitted, you will see it later in the debate, but unfortunately five of those six amendments the government refused to accept and this is one of the ones the government refused to accept. What's this about? Article 7 of Section 3, 4, 5 and 6 defines the procedure if someone wants to vote at the place of residence, so the place of residence. We believe that those who live in the country should vote in the city, only in the place of residence. For example, instead of Article 3, 4, 5 and 6 we asked that only one position be introduced which would be to include the information on the place of residence of the voters at the voter's request in the voter's list so that all information needed to vote in the place of residence could be provided to the voter. So you can enter the place of residence, but only in terms of delivering information where you vote. Why are we against voting outside the place of residence? First, you know what, I understand when some country is big, so you end up flying on a plane for seven hours then it's okay to make this kind of provision. We, as you know, are a small country from Belgrade to Vranj in three and a half hours. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason to introduce such a provision. On the other hand, elections are held not every week, but are held once every four years, sometimes three years. Therefore, it is no problem if someone lives in Cacca and studies in Belgrade to go to Cack's to vote. The students usually do it over the weekend, go home and have their moms wash them and feed them. Not only does the possibility of voting outside the place of residence raise suspicions that various abuses can occur, but even if there are no conscious abuses, I am very afraid of sloppyness, especially local administrations. They have so far been such voter lists and everything that is related to the voter lists has been led in principle by the most sloppy, so you have in the voter lists people who died a year, two or five, and you also don't have in the polling lists of young people who turned 18 in the meantime, etc. We all know that, everyone who's followed the election all these years, we know to what extent this data is messy. Expecting that someone now pedantic will also record the place of residence, while at the same time doing an appropriate job in the polling list, where it is the place of residence, to prevent someone from voting early in the afternoon in Belgrade, and in the afternoon in Chačka or elsewhere, I personally think it is completely unnecessary and will introduce a complete mess. So, the position is the DSS when it comes to citizens living in a country outside their place of residence for a while, that if they want to exercise their right to vote, they should go to that place for a vote. There is no need to introduce the place of residence as a place where citizens can vote. I'll tell you an internal experience of the DSS. We have tried to enable some of our internal electoral parties to vote in the place of residence and, once, it was a complete mess. Total chaos, believe me, so we gave it up quickly. There wasn't even any motive to be wrong on cards here right now, something to say, etc. - No, it just couldn't be done politely. Unfortunately, I fear that, even with the best of will, regardless of the good intentions of the legislator, I believe that this provision should be changed. I will finish by reminding you that for these 19 years of multi-party life in Serbia, practically all relevant political parties that are on the political scene today were both in power and in opposition. It is naive to think that it will not be so in the future – everyone will be in power and in opposition. Therefore, it is in everyone's interest, and it is really in everyone's interest that the electoral procedure, which, of course, includes the existence of a single electoral list, is so arranged that no one can think of cheating in the elections, on the one hand. On the other hand, all participants of the election to allow one easy procedure to control the electoral process, starting with this unique voter list, to all other actions that take place in the elections. I'm saying, I'm sorry we can't open dialogue on this subject right now, but I don't like the fact that there are so few amendments that have been submitted, I think there are good amendments here, not just the DSS, accepted, because in some ways the Ministry is showing -- that the legislators of this law simply intend to put this bill to a simple vote. I repeat, this law should be passed with one general consensus. So make one effort to make all the objections that the parties have on this law and which, of course, stand adopted and thus allow the law, I say, to simply agree. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen, and unfortunately it remains one stain and introduces one rule that some of the following authorities will again, to some extent, edit electoral lists and electoral laws, etc., and of course it is not good. If we have ambition, and I guess we have, to be a democratic country, then the whole election process, starting with the single voter list and beyond, must be completely transparent and subject to control and must be such that it removes any possible suspicion that something will not be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32711	Nine minutes was used by a time-authorized representative. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendment proposed by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic should be accepted. If there is an elementary assumption of correct choices, then it's a good polling list. If there was a consensus by the year 2000 of all parties, apart from the Socialist Party of Serbia, there was around a single voter's list and there was no dilemma, because the main struggle was about Serbia being a country where it could not be manipulated in the elections. Unfortunately, by 2000, the fact is that it wasn't possible. The most dramatic examples of theft in the elections took place in Kosovo and Metohija, but were happening elsewhere in Serbia. That is why in 2000, after the October 5th coup, regardless of the fundamental differences between political parties, a consensus was reached and an election law was passed in which one of the basic things was a unique electoral list, because it is not necessary to explain to anyone who has participated in the elections in the most banignous way, it is clear to him what the single vote list means. If he doesn't understand, he needs to look at countries with a long democratic tradition, where no one thinks he's stealing from the election, there's a unique voter list. What happened that nine years after the change of power in Serbia, we still don't have, above all, a single electoral list? It's something that objectively suggests that there is a possibility of manipulation in the election. We can talk about whatever we want, but there are experiences in countries of some republics that came out of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, say, Montenegro that came out with a single ballot very quickly, so they found, let's say, there are voters born in 1164, and I'm not talking about some other things that were in those voting lists. I'm not saying that it was the government's desire to make a bad voter list or that on such a drastic example it might be forge, but I'm simply saying the possibility of a mistake. You know, one who inputs data, it's possible to make a mistake and the data isn't entered exactly, but a unique polling list and serves to remove all problems related to the voter's list. The first and basic thing, which until 2000, unfortunately after 2000, has always tortured us, is the problem of people who are either two or three or more times listed in the voter list, because there is no single voter list. I ask the question of Mr. Chiplic, who was also the Constitutional Court judge, to tell us where Serbian citizens, such as other states, can enter and get a unique voter list? What you're saying here is that a single polling list is connected to a list of all polling lists by municipalities, that's insane. Every voter's list of municipalities is separate and it's all to itself. If it were a truly unique electoral list, we would first of all make one thing possible, if there was no possibility that someone would be in the voter's list twice. A simple operation that is assigned to a unique home number, absolutely all those who are double-written automatically eject. We don't have that option here. We may have it in one municipality, that possibility, but we don't have it at Serbia's level and that's the problem. Who guarantees that one voter is not listed in multiple municipalities? Take it theoretically, there are 17 municipalities in Belgrade, so one voter can be enrolled in 17 municipalities and he can vote in 17 seats during the day. Also, take some districts where municipalities are more urban, i.e. where distance is less, above all I think of Vojvodina, where it is possible for time to reach a vote in several polling stations, i.e. in several municipalities. That right can be misused. The question is, what is the government's interest, if they want fair elections, if they want correct elections, to prevent it? What's the motive? We rightly suspect that the motive is a very misuse of the possibility of individual voters being enrolled in a number of polling stations, i.e. in several municipalities. Not to say that it is possible in a municipality that a man may be in more polling places, but there is some way that he can be prevented, and this cannot be prevented, because there is no single electoral list. Now, em, there is no single voter list, you are introducing the possibility that the moment elections are discussed, the voter will register, express his wish whether he will vote at the place of residence or vote at the place of residence. Let's say there's an election and someone says I'm going to be in Nis, Vranj and so on, so I'm going to vote there. You know what it's like today with a public opinion survey. Serious researchers, serious companies dealing with this are able to give very precise, with very small errors of assumptions, about how many people will go to elections, what the power ratio will be, or how the electoral body will be distributed, and based on these surveys, you have a realistic ability to create election results. You know, these researches are mostly internal and serve the authorities to gain insight before there's a vote on the mood among voters. Just the fact of what you're predicting, what a newspaper, etc. says that you are aware that after future elections you will be in a situation that you will have to buy MPs first. Secondly, to count on some who are now in opposition, that they will probably approach you, and this is still an additional possibility for the electoral procedure to be misused. That should absolutely be prevented, because there is no way of control. If there is no control, there is an automatic possibility of abuse. Imagine any bank or anyone who works with money if there's no control. Is there such a possibility? There isn't. She's gone because it's a simple thing, whoever works with the money comes into temptation, at some point, to possibly abuse the trust he gets. That's why the controls are rigorous. That's the way it is in the election. You know, it's simple stuff. Someone's afraid, because they'll lose power, so they won't have the privilege, someone's afraid because losing power will have to come under the influence of the law, to answer for what he's done. Now look at the State Audit Committee report. This is just amazing, how many billions have been spent without knowing who, how, or where, or why. The proposal came in 2008 for the final account, and suddenly, in a magical way, it was withdrawn, not given to MPs. Why isn't the report of the State Audit Committee given to MPs? I remember in 2001 and 2002, when the DOS came to power, immediately some inspectors went, even Bozidar Djelic hired retired members of the military who were involved in the work to go through the ministries to find out if someone had misused their function, or whether the money was deliberately or intentionally spent in accordance with the budget. Many reports have been filed, no one has responded because there were no abuses, but here in this situation where several billion are concerned, especially one ministry has been called to spend funds in an illegal manner. Until I get the report, I won't talk about it, because I have no insight. Mrs. Komic, I always try, no matter what you smile, not to share information that I'm not sure is correct. They may not be true, but someone is behind that data. So, in this case, I want to simply get this information, so that based on this data, it will open an urgent debate in the RS Assembly. But this Article 7 directly tells the citizens of Serbia that, with this opportunity to abuse the electoral process, it says that you absolutely have no intention of removing the possibility of abuse of the electoral and pre-election process, or the possibility of stealing from the elections. If you accept this amendment, you will not completely remove it, but at least partially reduce the possibility that the pre-election and election process itself is being misused and that someone is stealing in the elections on behalf of you. I remind you of 1996, that coalition "Together", the "Koza", when you were blowing whistles, banging pots, etc., and then all those who were in the SPS, I remember Nebojja Covica, he did not want to accept responsibility for what someone was doing on behalf of the SPS, because not everyone was stealing. He stole one piece, but I remind you of the election in 2000, the September elections. You know, our members of the electoral commission left the election commission because they didn't want to accept manipulation related to the data coming from the field. Then it happened that some also refused to accept what was done on the ground. I guess, objectively, there are people among the yellows who won't accept that someone in their name is stealing, because it's supposed to be the interest of the DS. Why would you accept that? You want a straight, fair, fair game, so whoever's better, let them win. Give us that fair and correct game. Make it happen. Write, don't punch yourself in the chest and talk about being honest, how you're for democracy, and here, black on white says you're allowing the election process to be misused. That's the basic problem. You know what opportunities the opposition has – limited. How can we control the results in the elections now, when there will be a list of those who vote in the place of residence, so those who vote in the place of residence, then in prison, etc., abroad, explain to me, Mr. Chiplic, how and what mechanism will enable the opposition to determine that it is abused? How? On your word of honor? Don't, you know, we didn't believe it either to those who swore an honorable title, so pioneering, etc., because we realized that those who essentially had no integrity swear, so it was their only shield. Therefore, Mr. Chipletic, on behalf of the Government, accept this amendment. I think it will partially fix this bad law related to the unique electoral list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32713	The used time of the parliamentary group is 15 minutes and 50 seconds. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32714	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable MPs, I believe as you do, and I share the satisfaction of meeting with the MPs of the Serbian National Assembly. At the very end of the line, when the question arises whether the resolute minister must always defend the law, and I must remind people, citizens, that the government is a pronoun and that the government can, according to objective circumstances, and objective circumstances are also a disease, to designate ministers who will represent a law in front of parliament. At the end of the line, it seems to me, and I've heard all this argument, that this argument is the one that is for the adoption of this law. That this is an argument relating to the need to adopt and edit a single electoral list. It may seem unusual to you, but developed European countries or some of the developed European countries have developed democracies and do not have a single electoral list. For example, Great Britain, Holland, and even Germany. Germany has something that is interesting and is called – a summary electoral list and it only has it because it has a mixed electoral system. The unique voter list from the experience of parliamentary life in Serbia is also the need in the far line, namely this Article 7, for example, is also an opportunity to provide or enable citizens to make their constitutionally guaranteed voting rights easier, which is to vote in the place of residence, not only in the place of residence. At the end of the line, this is one privilege. Of course, it is understandable that any right, and even obligations, can be misused. This electoral privilege may be misused, but it is precisely these members, i.e. the views of Article 7 that are designed to make this voter's privilege very transparent. These are the conditions under which the privilege of voting is not in the place of residence, but in the place of residence, that it may be used. Who's following that? Follow the one who gives authority to legality, above all, the legality of choice. It is very clear that if we have a unique electoral list, if we have it, and we will have it under this law, and we are discussing this law, then we believe that all faults, all problems, the largest number of flaws, the largest number of problems that this law identifies and norms as something completely new and different, will be removed from parliamentary life. I repeat, Serbia is entering a circle of states with such a law, within a circle of states that have a single polling list, and I repeat that some countries, developed countries of European democracy, traditional, respectable democracies, do not have unique electoral lists, but this does not prejudice democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32715	National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to replication, clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, to say the least, I'm afraid you didn't understand this debate at all. Please, I don't mean in a pervasive sense. It's a shame Mr. Milan Markovic didn't come. Mr. Minister, you mix the grandmothers and frogs, you mix the proportions and majority elections. You're telling us there's no single polling list in England. Why do they need a unique ballot? That's where the majority election is. Every unit, so what do they need... A simple majority system, chosen by one electoral unit, chosen by one representative and completed work. Here are the proportional elections, here is Serbia's one electoral unit. Mr. Chiplet, may I remind you how much we fought to achieve that right, to be one electoral unit, because you forgot that too. Do you remember how many there were? Twenty-seven, 29, and seven, so who's going to remember more all the political maps or election maps that were tailored according to forecasts to win and to achieve the best possible result. Now, you're here to tell us the story of how this is the best solution for Serbia. That's not true, Mr. Chiplet. You're saying we're going to get into a row of countries that have a single polling list. I suppose you can logically conclude and come to the conclusion from what it says. It says -- in the Republic of Serbia, a general polling list is being conducted in municipalities, as part of a single voter's list. Please, where's that unique list where all the municipalities are? Where, besides the name of the law? Mr. Chiplic, it's a very simple thing for both me and the citizens of Serbia to say -- here, Members of Parliament, you have a unique electoral list on that and that site, go on the site and finish the job. Or, if that's difficult for you, here, the SRS will be happy to turn all these municipal ballots into a single voter list. I am sure that Serbia's Statistical Institute can come out with a unique electoral list for a relatively short time without any problems. What I point out in particular again, the simplest thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32717	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32718	Here, I'm done. The first thing he'll erase, it'll be double written down, then all of this. In this way, you're just expanding the possibility of abuse of an unambiguous voter list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32719	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, MP Boris Aleksic has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. MP Sreto Peric, are you in favour of the previous amendment? We return to the search in detail, the amendment to Article 7 submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalic and Željko Tomic. He is registered for the word, and the word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32720	Mrs. Comic, to be clear, I would like to refer the replica to Mr. Chiplic. In the first sentences of his address, he paraphrased me directly. If you don't mind, in one minute I can explain what this is all about. Thank you. Mr. Chiplic, the MPs of the SRS insist on one thing, which is that always someone on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is present here when it is debated whether in principle, in particular. For today, it is essential that we do not enter into whom the prime minister or the first deputy president, or vice president, or whatever he is called, will be empowered. I'm just saying-- you especially have all the personal qualifications that you can defend this law quite successfully here. I have to say, I may not share the opinion of all the colleagues in the SRS, but I'm expressing mine, it's our pleasure when you're here. You have an interactive role in everything here and we are changing experiences here, we represent two absolutely different policies in this House. The public is our judgment and let them see it and be determined accordingly. I only made a constructive proposal for Mr Cvetkovic, so that he could think about it, and nothing serious, but rather very responsible, so that he could consider joining ministries within the government to make it cheaper for Serbian citizens. Mr. Todorovic has already said - there is no talk here about a single voter's list. Here is simply a synthetic collection of electoral lists by units of local self-government. We are, in any case, all our strength, our legal technique and everything, because here are the people who started maybe from members of the electoral committees to RIK, they have a huge experience in this area. We are for a unique voter's list. We believe that this can be regulated without a specific law, but the fact that we have submitted a number of amendments suggests that we accept the law, but we want to make our contribution to making it as high as possible and that abuse and manipulation in the conduct of the elections are reduced to the least possible extent, if that is not possible at all, to be completely abolished. I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Thank you again for having an understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32721	Anyone else want a word? National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32722	Madam Chairman, it is an amendment to Article 7 submitted by counterpart Boris Aleksic. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32723	I will now read the amendment, as MP Sreto Peric wanted to speak in search of the previous amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Lydia Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, submitted by counterpart Boris Aleksic, refers to the deadline foreseen for the entry of the voter's facts to be entered in the voter list. The amendment provides for a longer period than is provided for in the draft law. The SRS believes that 48 hours before the voter's list is completed, it is sufficient and will not affect the up-to-dateness and accuracy of voter records in Serbia. These are technical things that can be done quickly, and that can't possibly be a problem. Problems can arise when someone comes up with them. As an example of what I'm talking about, it's good to remind ourselves of a 2002 mass phenomenon that took place in the Bujanovac municipality territory. In the snap elections for SO Bujanovac's organs, a large number of Albanian nationalities were allowed to vote, in polling stations in mountain villages, which remained almost completely empty after NATO's aggression in 1999. The residents of those villages moved to cities in the AP KiM territory, however, at the time of the election. The goal was to take over local authorities by members of the Albanian national minority. As a result, the removal of Serbs from the institutions of local self-government. In view of the fact that the adoption of this law is presented as something that will contribute to the accuracy and accuracy of the voter records to a very significant extent, it means that the municipal administration in Bujanovac will, in an adequate manner, update the electoral list for that territory, which will be part of the single electoral list, in accordance with Article. 26 or 27 of this bill, how would it represent the actual state of the population with the right to vote? This law will start to apply after one year from the date of entry into force, which means before the end of next year 2010, and for 2011, a census is planned, for which significant funds need to be allocated. It would be good for this census to determine in fact where people who vote in polling stations in abandoned mountain villages live. It won't be easy. Many of them will likely arrive at the time of the census, to be seen at the address where their residence was reported. Failure to update the voter list adequately in the environments such as the Bujanovac produces lasting and irrevocable consequences and creates pressures on Serbs and other non-Albanians living there to stay there. If the abuses of the electoral list have become a regular phenomenon, we can make sure of the last elections in 2008. In small areas, you usually know who votes. In Beli Palanca, individual voters were without any basis included in the polling list at the polling station where they did not vote, although their home address does not belong to that polling post at all. It's not all an accident. It is probably not by chance that in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative body, the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure on work are not respected. When I say this, I mean not accepting my and Elena Christmas-Talijan's resignation from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The backdrop of this decision is the ruling majority's attempt to legalize something that can't be legalized, I mean events related to the mandates of the SRS. Based on this phenomenon in parliament, the question is raised -- do we need elections at all, do we need a voter's list? What is happening in parliament is that the ruling majority can do anything and that the electoral will of citizens is not important to them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32725	Four minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milet Poscurica, Mico Rogovic and Jelena Budimirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted this amendment, but the Assembly will declare it in the voting day, due to the lack of a report by the Legislative Committee. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32726	It is good that the government has accepted an amendment that is closer to regulating behaviour the day after the elections, in which someone who really voted in his place of residence, abroad or somewhere in Serbia wants to make a relevant complaint. Most often political parties do so, which is why the up-to-dateness of the voter's list is, as a rule, the most common subject of political parties' interest or so induced individuals, although there are people who really want to carry out their will to the end, that by the end of the process, they check the efficiency of their demands and then even go to the electoral commission, to argue there on the netly held election results. As it cared in paragraph 5, which was changed, it meant that data should be deleted immediately on whether someone voted at the place of residence, in the country or abroad, by their previous decision. The problem arises in what can happen to be, say, multi-level elections. Often these elections are so arranged, with the will or desire of those who call the elections, that, for example, at a time when there is the possibility of mass arrival of our citizens living abroad, let's say, Catholic holidays etc., what happens at the end of December, great, when our people, of course, are released with their own at a time of collective rest and mass are found in Serbia, therefore, in their place of residence, where they want to exercise their right to vote. If the solution was strictly applied that the amendment was not accepted, it would mean that where our citizen, the voter, appeared, but the next day, after the elections were held, if it were quite logical that the administration that regulates it was not able, physically, to delete that information, it would have to, in order not to be punished by some penalty that is not a dragon, to pretend that the clerk did so and to say, not to withdraw the list -- "There is no you, sir, in the list, we are, by law, obliged to delete it. Your name stands, you are there." He's physically not deleted, he's not removed from the file, but he can't show it to the party. It is therefore important that in this way only one segment in the electoral process, which is an up-to-date voter list, which we also do not believe is unique, but is a sum of partial, individual and unique beings in only one segment of the 15-day, or 13-day ministry intervention, but it is only uniquely similar, it is fundamentally not unique. It is good that this amendment is accepted. I have no intention of thanking the ministry, but finally to find out that there are people who can see their mistakes, channel, I.D.s, to come together for something that's good, but there are a lot of amendments that still need to be adopted to make this the most unique thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32727	Since the time of the authorised representative, 40 seconds have been used. Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has no report, and this amendment will also be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 8 and suggested that the words "minister in charge" be replaced by the words "minister in power". Namely, this is the principled position of the SRS, and we always do so in the legal regulations that we are considering here in the Assembly, however, we have no understanding of the government. What is important to stress, is that the SRS's view that this legal project, this bill, should include so-called. by electoral legislation and installing it, incorporating it into electoral legislation, so as not to be in the way of the specialgason, as you have now suggested. Secondly, I am obliged to warn you of certain rights, certain categories of persons, which cannot achieve their voting rights for many years. In fact, it's a refugee population that doesn't have voting rights, there's no voting right because they don't have citizenship in these areas, they don't have any citizenship, they don't get it. It is a category of over 90,000 refugees who have not received Serbian citizenship and who do not have a ID card and cannot vote with it, cannot achieve fundamentally, fundamentally human and political right to choose and be elected. On several occasions, the government of Republika Srpska in persecution addressed the government, addressed state institutions, and the competent human rights ministry, demanding that these categories of population exercise this electoral right, as basic human rights. Unfortunately, this violates both the constitutional law of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions of international law, the UN declaration of fundamental rights and human freedoms, the European Convention on Rights and Freedoms and other provisions of international law. I am surprised by the minister's thinking and position of the human rights ministry, which has done nothing almost a year and a half in terms of changing the situation and changing relations towards the refugee population. It's 90,000 Serbs who can't achieve that right. In addition, we must point to at least hundreds of thousands of Serbs who are also unable to achieve this right, because the refugee population that received refugee status in one place, and currently lives in another place for economic and social reasons, often migrate, leave, seek a place under the sun, and thus cannot exercise their right to do so. I'm under the obligation to point out the provisions of one response by the Ministry of Human Rights, the minister is currently missing. As a member of the People's Parliament and the President of the Republika Srpska in exile, I pointed out to the Ministry of Human Rights that the refugee population has, and I pointed to discriminatory measures by Croatian authorities towards Serbs regarding labour and housing rights. In fact, housing law as a fundamental right in the period of socialism has been treated differently in the laws of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, BiH. Serbs who have been expelled from BiH have achieved this right as a form of property rights. Croatians in Croatia have achieved this right, however, about 50,000 Serbs who had the right of residence in Croatia did not do so. I point out and ask, this is also required by the Government of Republika Srpska, a number of regional associations that point to this fundamental right, it is all about this electoral right, one moment when this state changes its policy towards the refugee population, changes its policy towards Croatia, which makes it all discriminatory to prevent Serbs from achieving their fundamental and fundamental rights, including electoral rights, will change their attitude towards both Serbs and Serbs and refugees to this country and to the Croatian state. In response to my parliamentary question, the Human Rights Minister says the following. "The Republic of Serbia, having regard to the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and on Fundamental Freedoms, Article 33, may submit an interstate representation to the European Court of Human Rights, pointing to a possible breach of the provisions of the Convention or Protocol with which it is considered to be attributable to another State signatories of the Convention." Since the signatories of the Convention and Serbia-Croatia, the request of the Serbian government in persecution and my request as a MP was for the Ministry of Human Rights to submit a presentation to the European Court of Human Rights. Why? Because it is the right thing to do for Serbs in BiH. This right was achieved by Croats in Croatia who had the right to housing, which Serbs did not exercise the right. It is discrimination against one population group, and it is the country's obligation to submit a play, to point to a violation of international law, domestic legislation, which points to the return of these rights and that this historic injustice that lasts 18 years is corrected and belongs to Serbs what is originally theirs. The right to citizenship, the right to recognition of employment, the right to housing rights and all other economic, social property rights, these are primal rights and Serbs must get it. We ask the state to engage, to help us achieve those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32729	Four minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment is the submission of the Ms Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32730	I don't know where Minister Chiplic is going, and he should be here, to draw attention to him that he wasn't following well, probably because he often comes out. He said that the argument of lawmakers who speak about amendments made him conclude that they were MPs to pass this law. As far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, that's simply not true. On the contrary, we claim that for the single electoral list as an institution, as a category, whatever they call it, there is a regulation in the Law on People's MPs. We think that the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Serbia has had time for these nine years to say by a regulation to make it look like a single voter's list. There's a legal basis. Mr. Minister, who is otherwise the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, said here earlier that in the Serbian Parliament, I must remind him of the constitutional category, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which Mr. Ciplic, in addition to representatives of the majority Serb people, sits and representatives of the majority or almost all national minorities in Serbia. Article 9 of the proposal provides for solutions based on changes in the voter's list. In paragraph 2, which we have intervened in the amendment, it is said – a solution based on the change in the voter's list is made according to official duty or on the request of citizens, based on data on parent books and other official records and public documents. We think it should be said to add words: official records of the ministry responsible for the administration and the interior ministry." You say that this is not accepted because there are changes in the voter's list on the basis of other official records, not only on the basis of official records kept by these two ministries (recording of business capacity, persons serving the military deadline, persons maintaining office sentences, etc.). This is just not true. The only two ministries that should be hired and that the consequences of their co-operation, based on a government regulation, are a single electoral list, is an electronic link between the MUP and the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. You are deliberately avoiding not only this member but also through some other members, as I also spoke to Minister Milan Markovic, deliberately avoiding to import through this law the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, because that is why you did not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32731	A minute and 30 seconds were used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment is a national letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Mr. Ciplic showed up, I expected to get an answer to a simple question – where can a Serbian citizen or us as an interested political party come up with a single voter's list? A very simple question and we ask you to answer us, especially because you are sitting next to a man who is dealing with this problem and who can tell you, I'm not telling you that you need to know, but he certainly knows and can tell you, to guide me where I can get to the single ballot list. Article 10 best says that there is no link between local self-government, or the municipality, both the ministry and each other. You don't want to respect it because you want separate polling lists by municipalities, by local self-government. Our amendment, Mr Petar Jojic suggested adding a fourth position, where all changes by the MUP would automatically lead to changes in the voter list. But you rejected it. You and this member of the first one, the voter lists are concluded five days after the election and these changes are made in local self-government, and for three days since the start of the elections, it is brought by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Can you explain to me where logic is? Where's the logic? Why do one of these same jobs, first of all, have two deadlines, the second to work two bodies, local self-government and the Ministry? If it were a unique electoral list, then it's done in one place and just passed. Now there are technical possibilities. Europe has helped you get your gear. Don't make us conclude that we don't think you want to do this, because if you don't want to, then we're going right away with what the motives are that you don't want to do. If this provides correct elections and electoral procedures, then it is logical to conclude that you do not want a correct electoral procedure, i.e. in this way you get the opportunity to manipulate election results through an electoral procedure and that is something that is based on the basic thing when it comes to elections. Is there a possibility of abuse, or manipulation, or does it not exist? If you systematically install it, then there's nothing left for us but to not only question but to be convinced that this is how you prepare and prepare to abuse the electoral procedure. Unfortunately, this isn't just one option. That procedure is being misused in every way possible. Mr. Chiplic, I assume that you are also a member of the Regional Committee of the DS and that at one of the sessions of your party's organs, a decision has been made to buy hundreds of thousands of tonnes of food and chemical products for household purposes, to pack in packages and to pack in packages and, even on election day, even on the very day of elections, these packages are divided throughout Serbia. We have dispatches where Bojan Pajtic, as chairman of the District Committee, signed the papers. I'm asking you, are you a company? What's this about? How can you convince us that you want fair elections and that you will not abuse them through electoral lists? If you abuse them this way... We've recorded the warehouses that share the packets, where they're packing packages with DS activists. The police were stopping the clippers in which those packages were transported. It's all clear, obviously. However, there is no result. This is the biggest problem facing our country and we as a political party who wants to participate in the elections in an equal way, so that no one is favored in any way, because this is simply amazing. Look what's going on in Belgrade right now on Vozdovac. Is this the City of Belgrade, the citizens of Serbia or is Dragan Gilas and DS doing it? Wherever they bury the Ash, they run and explain how they make it possible. With whose money? Is that the money Dragan Gilas took from the company he founded since 2003 and earned millions of euros? You've had a chance to hear how he abused the position and the law when it comes to building a house where he's shooting the Big Brother series. That's something we're warning you about. Give us concrete and correct answers and what is most important, legal solutions that do not allow for the possibility of abuse of power, i.e. manipulation of pre-election and electoral procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32733	Six minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32734	Your Honor, I personally think it is very important to shorten the ways of communication when it comes to changes in the voter's list. However, in Article 11(2), you have this relationship that you claim should be established, and the link has been established between the two ministries, the Ministry of Interior and the ministry run by the state administration. Why is there no solution for the M.O. to inform local self-government? For the simple reason that the MUP and local self-government are assisting the Ministry of State Administration, which is responsible for the unique electoral list. It's like two assistants making a direct, fast connection when it comes to changes in the single polling list. The assessment of legislation, i.e. by the legislator, i.e. the assessment of those who run the single electoral list, is that communication between the two ministries, not only in the domain of labour law, jurisdiction under the law, can produce the result you are looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32735	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32736	Mr. Minister, I'm going to deny you right now, because you have called for Article 11, and we have an amendment to that article, which Mr. Mirko Munjic, who suggested it, because we ask that it be done when it comes to any change, to do so immediately, not after three or five days, etc. That'll be explained by Mr. Lightning. He shows that you don't want the job on the voter lists to be clean, but you're leaving the possibility of manipulation, because if you wanted to just accept our amendment, and you didn't do it. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Chiplet, I really don't know what the problem is to answer my question -- where can I see that unique voter list? Give me an answer. Where's that unique voter list? Don't convince me that it takes five, six organs to do the same job or two organs. Why? Why would they do that? It's just amazing. The unique record implies the possibility of better control. It's a basic rule, wherever it's done. You have 100 branches and imagine if control was limited to branches, who would do that? When would that be revealed? No, there's a unique control. It's also with the voter lists. The unique record allows unique control, and that is what we stand for. Not to include 100 of them, but one of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and everyone going over it and then that thing would be over, because the ministry would just be passed on to local self-government and would finish the job. This way, you wrap it up for us, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, howl, but the essential results are such that electoral procedures and elections are misused in various ways. I've given you an example of how you're being abused. Did you have a chance to hear, since you mentioned England, that in some of the elections in England, one of the parties, say the Labour Party or one of the candidates, that its activists, or members, shared packages throughout England? What do you think is going on in England? You're a good knower of those opportunities. You can tell us. Did you hear, Mr. Chiplet, in England in any election, did any of the participants in the election share packages with food, with chemical products, etc? I didn't hear. If it were done, we would view it as SNN, or there is no world television station that would not carry it as something unremembered and unseen. Therefore, Mr. Chiplet, or accept amendments that allow you to at least partially correct this or answer the simple questions that we ask you. So you will convince us and the citizens of Serbia that what you are saying is true. Like this, I have to admit, I don't believe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32737	The word is made by Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32738	I really think you can believe it when it comes to JBS. The unique voter list is governed by the existing law as prescribed. That changes now. I cannot give the impression that in this House everyone cares about changing in exactly the way it was proposed, that it means JBS. If we're talking, it was important for me to see that we have no difference and that we don't think the same way, or if we talk about changing personal status as quickly as possible, then I think that this solution is completely acceptable. The MAP that keeps records shall keep them under legal procedure and for legal purposes. It delivers it to the other ministry, i.e. only the ministries are authorized to keep records, and local self-government leads it as a job of the ministry. The Ministry of State Administration, i.e. the Ministry of State Administration, informs the Ministry of State Administration. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: When and in what time? ( ) It is very simple that this change is immediately reflected in that ministry that is responsible for these issues. Only after that is it informs local self-government. It is perfectly natural for one whose jurisdiction is first to know and first to enter it into his records. The conduct of unique voting lists is not only a matter of software, but also a matter of procedure, which, due to the fact that the MUP, the Foreign Ministry, the local self-government, the one in which someone has a residence and the one in which someone has a residence, is in fact complicated by the procedure. And we can't have a single ballot as easily as anyone would love it, which is that by clicking one click, one entry can make a change. This is impossible precisely because of the participation of a number of state authorities, the authorities of local self-government who keep track of different issues of the status of a person, but in this way it is accelerated. There is no state in Europe in which in such a simplified way is not led, but can lead, because what is this authority that will, without verification, say that there has been a change in the personal status of a voters? The MAP keeps a certain record. The authorities of local self-government, let's look at them uniquely, within local self-government, run certain things. Then, in fact, it seems to me, it is my personal belief, and I believe that we will do so exactly when this law is passed, in the next practice, the most effective way that it offers and guarantees and procedure, which is logical, and the procedure that is political in terms of both legality and legitimacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32739	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32740	Mr. Minister, here's my thanks. Your answer is essentially the best evidence of what we claim and what we stand for. It's good, or I can see that you're in the same position as we are, but someone else is deciding that it's not how it's supposed to be. It's logical what you say, because it really makes it possible not to abuse election procedures. Now we're coming, or I'm going back to that discussion of mine -- who is it that plans on your behalf to abuse or have the opportunity to abuse election procedures, or elections, or not to be valid? Why aren't you in this process now eliminating that possibility? Look, Mr. Minister, you said one thing that absolutely doesn't stand, it's not logical, "single voter lists". It's not there. You can have a unique local polling list for each municipality, but no voter lists exist, but there is only one single polling list, one record and there is no dilemma there. You're already talking about it in the plural. So basically we don't have a single polling list. The lack of a single ballot allows abuse. It's especially important, it's hard to determine this abuse, because we don't have resources. They have no opposition or have no other political parties, except the authorities, the ability to control the electoral procedure. You remember that in 2000, a single polling list was brought by the then head of the State Security Service. Only the Service had a single polling list. No other authority in the state of Serbia had that list. Do you know how much together we've highlighted the problem that there are people who have several or more ID cards, Mr. Chiplet? Why haven't you eliminated it so far? I'm asking again -- what are the motives, what aren't you? Here, you've confirmed that you agree. I know some other ministers who also say, absolutely, because we've talked about this problem before, pointed out the problem. You remember how some took those CDs and fled to the toilets to prove that there was no single polling list and that, among other things, the results of the election were illegal. You're not doing anything to prevent it, you're making it possible for us to remain in the same situation. Stop it. It's a simple way. It's particularly interesting that it's much more economical. Here, the gentleman sitting next to you, who's an expert on this, a professional, he'll explain everything to you. It's much simpler and more economical to run it in one place. Maybe it's being guided, I don't want to sin on my soul, but we don't have one. We don't have it, but then if there is, someone who has it allows him to be abused. These are the things that make us tell you right now, no matter what your attitude -- I don't believe who wrote this, I don't believe they want fair and fair elections. On the contrary, we believe that this is how pre-prepared theft is, that is, the hairstyle of the election results. Thank you and forgive the extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32741	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Justice Committee and the Government have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32742	In Article 11(2), following the wording ‘member’, the point is replaced by a closed point and the words ‘recording immediately after the entry of the change’ are added. To remind the public, Article 11(2) states: “The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the data from the official record, and on the residence and residence of citizens on which changes are based on the voter's list, delivers electronic data directly to the Ministry of Administration within the time limit set out in Article 1”. The deadline is, to remind you, three days. So, we asked the amendment to send these changes from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of State and local self-government immediately, not within three days. Mr. Minister, when we say right now, it's not that second, it's not the same minute, it's not that hour, but it's that day, during business hours. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you have a number of years to remember those old administrative workers who, when they typed the data into one book, if that enrollment was related to the entry into another book, opened that second book at the time and entered that data. It's an up-to-date record-keeping. That's how it was supposed to be done here. What the government says -- because of volume and number, it says, change would be disabled, effective data exchange. Doesn't the department have enough employees to do this? Does the government admit that they need more workers to do this job effectively? Is that what you wanted to say by reason like this? With regard to the issues I asked earlier, so as not to devalue the election results, so as not to devalue the election will of the citizens, so as not to devalue the unique electoral list itself, there are people who do not want to do so, about what I just told you in local self-government SO Luciani. We, Mr Minister, have been informed of the illegal decision taken by the electoral commission, SO Luciani and its president, without having held a session of the electoral commission, by the secretary of the electoral commission, the deputy secretary of the electoral commission, members and deputy members of the electoral commission who are being restricted by this illegal decision. So they are representatives of other political parties, Mr. Minister. While there are powerful men who are not interested in a single polling list or the electoral will of citizens, this is how it's going to happen to us, Mr. Minister, and it's in vain to get a single ballot if this doesn't stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32743	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica, and the People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32744	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Progressive Party wanted to improve what is in Article 11 by writing this amendment, however, it seems that Article 11 is somehow the most rigid for change. If you look closely, you have accepted Mr Batic's amendment, but read him and read the Government's proposal, you cannot see any difference in the first reading. Now that I'm talking about this amendment that we've submitted, it's like we're putting up with the Baticov amendment. So, to that member who has been completely seemingly altered. So, they didn't want to touch anything in the ministry of the resolute minister who submitted a bill like this, first of all in the time and schedules they gave, even at the level, according to the two ministries, the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Administration so far. Why is it a problem to cut something with three for two days, if it's already a problem that it can't be done on the same day? Take much more concrete life situations in which citizens, especially now applying the Traffic Safety Act, will be very rigorous in technical examinations and wanting everyone to do it earlier, and the other environment is in different municipalities, because different local car registration fees are different. Anyone with any property in another municipality can change his place of residence and move from one municipality to another. That means it'll take three days from the SUP, where you log out, say, from Kragujevac, to go to the ministry. It will take three days for the minister, in three days, theoretically, maximum, to send the local administration to take me down, say, from the list in Kragujevac and I can, on the same day, from Knic to Kragujevac, go and change my place of residence and now be Knic. In the same day, they put it in a personal card, an old one. It is easy to enter in one day, but the electronic information that changes in the voting list of me, where I could once vote in Kniæ, even for one time in both places I could vote, no one took care of it, so that change cannot be done for three and three, six days, and six days for the change of what goes out of Knic as information. It may sometimes, even within ultra-fast regulation, 15 days you've given, ultra-fast regulation, where everything solves the ministry from 15 to minus three days to the election, will not be able to update that list. Why is this amendment not accepted when it is definitely seen in Article 19, where it implements that the ministry somehow has a unique list? It fragments a unique list of local self-governments, urban and municipal. For the first time in Article 19, we discover that there is this fantasymagorical unique list, because the ministry has it. So, to be honest, we obtained from local self-government partial segments and made it united and called it unique, and occasionally we filter it. Or the filtering that is: they are mostly from 15 to minus three days, where all is done by the Ministry of Administration. Both abroad and local self-government takes over all the roles and all the reasons for the change in data. In the end, you can answer the MPs and answer them like that. From that you see, it's a unique list, and apparently it's uniquely run not by the ministry but by local self-government. The other problem that's coming up here now is again a matter of up-to-dateness. When in fact an individual, without speaking of official duty, acquires the opportunity to see what he is and where he is in the voter's list, the day after the election announcement? At that time, local self-government is required to highlight performances in the voter's list, election day and minus one. If so, every citizen should theoretically be interested in going and taking a window of municipal or elsewhere, it is difficult for you to get lists to come out without being torn up, not wet, to destroy them. Once pointed out, he no longer responds to anyone. The mass is the possibility of creating a variety of devastations and not being exactly all right. Then they'll be able to see and look for elemental changes, those who haven't changed their last name, who changed their address. For example, they live in the same city, and they change the address, etc. If it stays that way, the big period, the mass of them, and you know by the rule that eventually within seven to eight days, the party campaign and the local media, will be very little time if these deadlines leave themselves as they are, not to be extended, and therefore I think it would be logical, not for that three to two, which changes significantly, but day and day, it's two, so for many situations in two days would mean change. On the side of the fact that residence, residence, that difference in the context of the elections on a number of levels means absolute cataclysm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32745	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32746	On the occasion of Article 11, and the requirement that we, as a Parliament club, have made forward Serbia's SNS, to actually reduce the deadline for introducing changes from three to two days and the manner in which the amendment's refusal is explained, where it says - that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in Amendment 14. Now I'm reading, this is an amendment to Article 11. How did you name the amendments here when it doesn't say the regular number? I say - if it's on Article 14, it's the next amendment, it doesn't make sense. By reading the explanation I realize that you actually thought that the amendment was not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendments under regular number 14. Now let me tell you, I'm not a minor, but the vagueness and way of formulating time and obligations in the single voter's list and in this law as the techniques of conducting the election is not insignificant. An even more important way of formulating the government's time and obligations is in what is called the election process's identification option. To illustrate. Yesterday at the beginning of the session, which began at 11, we asked parliamentary questions and since the State Auditing Institution's report caused public attention, about 10:30, I asked the president to schedule a session, interrupt the current one, because of the importance of the State Auditing Institution's report and this budget, and because of the control of the spending of the funds, because of the failures it has made, that we should also consider before the adoption of the 2010 budget, the report made by the State Auditing Institution. At that moment, during the request, the public of Serbia had the opportunity to see when the president said -- no, we can't, because the government withdrew the 2008 final account proposal. I ask when, where's the document? The president answers - I didn't see it either, but now they're telling me it's done. Last night, after completing work here at the MP's club, a document was found in which it reads – November 30th, where the government, based on Rules of Procedure of the Assembly under Article 145(1), says it is withdrawing the bill. The first remark – yesterday was December 1st. At 10:30, approximately, the president doesn't know that this document has arrived, because neither has he been delivered to her, nor to us, I have every reason to doubt that this document has arrived the way it was seduced. I say, I have reason to doubt because none of us knew. Why does it matter? Dragging the 2008 final account from the procedure means preventing the Republika Srpska Assembly from pleading, to analyse the matter more important than the voter's list and everything else. The moment the elections are held in one municipality, when they are just finished in another, and they are debated in the third and when we have information that I will not present as documents, so that I do not endanger the existence and position of some people, about how the elections are financed by the director of the government are funded, I am asking – what do you expect, when you procedurally disabling us, by withdrawing from the process documents, that we cannot discuss the most important thing? To enable you, Rule 145(1), that the bill may be withdrawn until the last moment of the procedure. So, just before the vote. You applied that principle to the Budgetary System Act twice, and once for the Statistics Act. However, the bill that you are amending by amendments, according to settled practice until the last minute, can withstand any other proposal, but the proposal for a final account cannot withstand this business interpretation. It is a document relating to the past, to past events, to accounting documents, to documents submitted to the Treasury, or to the NBS authorised to receive this document on 28 February. Right? It's not a proposal for some of these and things like that, so come on, we decided to regulate some matter in a different way. No, this law cannot be withdrawn, amended and deleted for this essential reason, which is why the Rules of Procedure also foresees a special procedure for the adoption of the budget, its importance as a plan, and as an execution, I will no longer waste my words on the meaninglessness of withdrawal, for the sake of correction. What's another reason where the time you're talking about, as a time for bringing change, is an incredibly significant resource to which you pay attention selectively, motivated and by an interest called government at all costs. The state audit institution, which made this report, in consultation meetings, debated during meetings all possible dilemmas, corrections, arrangements, objections she accepted and worked on, as her rules of procedure warranted her work. And in this house, I insisted that no document should come out in public that had not been given up again to those to whom it applies, so that they could answer it, if the objections were not sufficiently established. But it comes out here with the conclusion that the first public heard the remarks in the report, insisting that the report should be discussed on the board. The board is not a plenary session. There is no direct transmission of the session. The importance of the topic deserves a plenary session and a debate in this home, and it is urgent, as soon as possible. This isn't a story for a story. This has to be a story so mistakes don't happen again. Why? Since 1998, when the Social Accounting Service was abolished, no matter who led it, the state has lost its obligation to deliver the MPs and the Assembly's audit. So, control of the authorized, responsible and professional reviewer of how money is spent. Literally, from 1999 to 27, when this report was delivered and the president was officially handed over, but not to us, such a report was not in the Assembly. If we were MPs, if I had received him as an SNS MP Thursday, as well as the president, I would say that on that same day, until the government had withdrawn the final bill, I would have asked for a session of the National Assembly, because of the importance of the topic. You delivered it to the MPs on Monday, in order to prepare a request for withdrawal on the same day, in case a debate is requested.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32747	National MPs, agreeing with the enormous importance of the document that you are talking about and standing on the side of the Assembly that passed the Law on the State Auditing Institution in order to be controlled by the Government, without any doubt all 250 will be on the side of control and supervision, but without the defence of the Government, please bring all analogy you present to the report and the final account in connection with the single electoral list, namely the bill proposal and the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32748	This interruption of yours will be seen as an attempt to lose thread or concentration, but it is unsuccessful. The way I'm making a relationship, in my own opinion, the importance of this topic with the topics we're discussing, I'm going to repeat and lose a few more seconds on that. The well-meaning, otherwise praised by Mrs. Kolundji, that you give advice to the opposition how to exercise your rights, in my case, is too high. I'm talking about the resource, the time to cut time from three days to two in Article 11 paragraph 3 that I've been looking for, means that, in the shortest time, changes are implemented, bringing about the importance of deciding the voters who are here in such lists, where the changes are being entered, and you can't technically assume the essence. That's what I'm explaining. What is the essence of not discussing something that represents the essence of choice? Getting power is making money available. Those who have received the Statute and the Law of Determining Jurisdiction have many reasons to be dissatisfied, although it seems not so. They say the newspaper that the lift-up of the Duke's DS tried to calm down by adopting the Statute, but by delaying the Finance Act and the Property Act, because money is what is actually achieved by that take-off and gain power. What my neighbours, friends and colleagues from the DS will say is neither smarter, nor more beautiful, nor more capable than those in Belgrade or any other city, the end of Serbia, but they have had a considerable impact on the way the money was spent, which could have shown the take-off as their own success. On the money, on the power that comes from the availability of money you didn't earn, nothing was made by the Duchy of the Democratic Wing, from the wings of the DS Vojvodina to make more money. No, they were just spending more. They represented a decision on him as their gift, their gift. But the way he spends, it's the subject of this budget. This is qualified by someone powerful, and something that needs to qualify someone powerful, smart and capable, is to enable everyone to make money, because that money is the basis for the election, they prescribe rules of the electoral list, so that's why I'm talking about it, and this isn't my view of money. He still said Rothschild – give me control of the money and I don't care who makes the laws. You know it well. Why does this budget make this possible and why does it bother you to discuss it? Because you won't fool me into discussing bar bills and spent money for the team. That's what other surfacers can do. No matter how much marketing agencies have won for party advertising, and reportedly it's a fight against violence, the fight against poverty and various so-called. projects that have become the basis for spending money. As SNS MPs, I am concerned that in last year's final budget account, the state paid 50m euros in guarantees to debtors, of which it failed to comply with a legally prescribed obligation to demand, or to regress the guarantee paid and does not think of it. If last year this country issued 182m euros in guarantees, and if the state in last year's final account didn't ask for anyone, and it paid off the 50m guarantee, what is my founding fear? That all such guarantees will fall right on the burden of the budget. Mrs. Komic, you and I have sisters we're proud of, because they love and support us very much. Would my sister accept to be my guarantor for my loan, so when I don't pay it, her bank comes to mind, that's the rule, that she collects from the guarantor, she pays my loan and doesn't say at all - will you pay me back the money that I had to pay for you as a guarantee? As much as she loves me or your sister, the one who has a family, who has a responsibility and a relationship to spending money, will ask the one he vouched for and paid for the loan of the regressive payment of the paid money. Why isn't the state doing that? Because of the debtors or those to whom he's guaranteed? I don't know, but the budget suffers. How many loans have we taken from such a type that are, in fact, only a flow boiler for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. forwarding to further users, where is Serbia direct or indirect guarantee? Do you know that the Republic of Serbia has exceeded 5% of the total revenue coming into the budget, which it can be in charge of liquid indifference in the inflow of the budget? There is not a single basic category that regulates the systemic spending of money without being violated by the most severe in this budget, nor a list of assets, nor financial flows of orderly ones, even on negative exchange rates which are allegedly the reason for withdrawing budgets to deposited funds underestimated budget revenues in 2008. Serbian, Serbian citizens, the government has shown less revenue in the budget for money deposited on interest-bearing accounts, which is foreign currency. One part of that means it's meant for restitution. As illegal as it is illegal, not non-domestic, not the questionable one, but the direct violations of the law, it is so much a reason that you have failed to discuss the most important issue, which is the life of these citizens, which is the most valuable resource of the moment when we are talking about elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32749	Fourteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić, Mileta Poscurica and Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32750	We're back with this rigid, unchangeable, cemented member, in which we're trying to at least change some terms. This time we are at Item 3 which is integrally said that the Ministry of Data Management of Item 2 of this Article shall forward to the competent etc. Now, as it stands here, although I just saw it reading carefully now, maybe you should think about it, the legislator to arrange it, to edit it, because it turns out that only what the Ministry of Interior delivers to the Ministry of Administration, it's only relevant to go back to local self-government. However, if we go back to the related article 10, we see that those famous 12 days of the Ministry of Administration's reign, when it makes all the solutions as the basis for the change in the voter's list, 15 minus three, in those 12 days, it has relevant solutions to local city administrations, which contains the position of Article 11. I think maybe it should have, now it's not the subject of an amendment intervention, I can only see it now, and the subject of intervention is just a cut in time, so before you see in paragraph 4, these deadlines can be current, daily updates. We don't see why something within 15 days, which is the densest, most intense, the 15 days when the Ministry takes all responsibility for updating the lists, and I'm not sure that only in those 15 days, minus three of those where it's not valid, no one can fix anything, that at that time everything will be connected to the data provided by the police, so that there is communication between the police and local self-government, of course according to the horizontals, according to verticals, to the lower institutions, city or municipal authorities that will take care of the urgency. This, in fact, is indirectly acknowledged and the importance of keeping the lists up to date by local self-governments, thus recognising their partiality, their segmentality, and under question brings this imagined concept of universality of the electoral list, which can only suddenly be read from heaven to the ribs in Article 19, that it is already as such a uniquely based, set, delivered from base to top. He's somewhere integrated into some Erca, some system that's changing from there. I don't know, if everything's been integrated at the Ministry's level, what's going on these past 13 days that's all going back to the bar, when we have a time when the voter's list is concluded, and the Ministry has corrected it as a closed segment by local self-government? We have that possibility. There is little evidence that the legislator, when a man reads in more detail, did not get along very well. He returns data within the 90-day election process, returns data with a quick rhythm of three days back to local self-government, and there are times when they must be finished, definitively and when the ministry divides them as ready-made units for local self-government units. During this short period of direct and rapid jurisdiction, I think it is an opportunity to include the items of Article 11, which may require some of those performed locally, such as adulthood, and already has a ID card, not have to go through the militia, etc. or a double name, or someone who will log out the deceased, etc., that already the third election cycle the deceased does not appear on the voter's list. There are different demands from citizens who want to do it themselves, or initiate the procedure, and then it must be done on official duty. We don't think it would be so scandalous to accept an amendment like this. It would contribute to the rationalisation and speed of work, as otherwise an enormous rate of work in the position of Article 11. I don't see why that wouldn't be wrapped up with a day less at this time that would precede, hopefully, soon new choices. This is the only way to change the situation in that important segment of the election, and these are the voter lists. What involves an election campaign, who knows when it will change in Serbia, seems that the practice of who is in power does, wall, collapse, repairs, opens what should have already been opened. We can't even criticise the people, but we criticise the passion of the government, which he did sometime, will remain to the people, but it shouldn't be used as a point in campaigns, even these sessions and what anyone discusses at sessions, to represent various events in the anti-marketing sense for individual political parties. Something where we can fight to help the citizens, to point out that we need to look at political parties and their programs, not what ad hoc who can do in a few days or weeks before the elections, is to guarantee them one security of their survival on the electoral list that needs to be unique, unchangeable, and that they no longer have to worry about getting that spaghetti, the one from the outset, that call, the one to the pantler, that they go out to the polls and show their seats, and that's where they're most often gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32751	Three minutes was used by a time-authorized representative. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32752	Mr. Minister, you said-- we think like you, you think like us, but it's stuck somewhere. Where's it stuck? It's stuck in a bicep executive. It no longer works by definition as it should. There's no need to underestimate the story of bar bills. I won't apostrophe any ministry, my conscience won't allow it, but last night, the President of the Republic said, "It's not right, it's been eating a lot and drinking. We have to get it back to change." These are the words I literally quoted. Now, the story that MP Dragan Todorovic told about this debate, how the peddlers were driving food and drink and giving, may be looked for there, and therefore these costs and bills should be seriously monitored and paid serious attention to them. This is not the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Serbia. That's what someone else should do. Looks like that's where it's stuck. I will return to this amendment to Article 11(4), which reads in the draft law - from the day the elections are discussed, up to 72 hours before the election day, the authorities referred to in Article 1 and 2 of the Ministry of State Administration, are obliged to submit all data from St. 1 and 2 of the status changes immediately and no later than the next day, from the day the changes took place. Why until 72 o'clock? In particular, it can be interpreted as if all the activities of these two ministries were stopped, in case the elections were called. When elections are not called, they are immediately, and for the longest time within 72 hours, they are due to pass, but when elections are called, what arrived 72 hours before the elections are held, then they can only register in the competent ministry, and not in any case forward it from the MUP to the Ministry of State Administration, and those units of local self-government, which you said could later assist, in this establishment of the electoral list. We believe that this process and these activities should run uninterrupted, especially when elections are discussed. Then, up to 24 hours before the elections are held, in order to reduce and reduce the number of those who, for various reasons, are sometimes subjective, have reduced them, to enable them to use their active voting rights. The active voting right is to vote. It's our wish and we've had that intensity when we submit these amendments, not something else. Finally, for you, Mr. Minister, one very simple and simple question. I hope you'll answer. Indeed, where can we see a unique polling list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32753	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment is to insist that the authorities referred to in Articles 11(1) and (2) immediately submit all the required data relating to changes in the electoral list to be conducted under official duty. The government has suggested that this could be the next day since the change occurred. The SRS believes that there really should be an electronic flow of information between the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as well as an electronic flow of information between the authorities of local self-government and the relevant republican ministries. Mr. Čiplic has drawn our attention that this is how it really writes in Article 11(2) that the information is also delivered by electronic means. If that's the case, then the question is - why is it impossible to deliver this information immediately and why is it waiting for the next day? The government has given us a quite flat-rate and a little banal explanation that this is due to an extremely large number of changes in the period from the election day to the voter list's conclusion. Therefore, the possibility of providing such data is provided at the latest on the following day from the day of the change. First of all, who measured how many of these changes are there? It's probably not the same for each election. However, in order to refuse the amendment, the government says -- due to an extremely large number of changes. That number of changes, Mr. Minister, no matter how exceptional or not exceptional, does not affect the fact that data can be delivered immediately because, simply, modern technology allows you to do so. They repeat the question asked by both Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Sreto Peric. So, you're saying, now that we're voting and adopting this bill, we're going to have a unique voter list. Okay. I ask you -- where can MPs get that unique voter list? I'd be happy to bring you an empty ce-de or a floppy or any other medium that can store data, so give us that unique polling list. That unique ballot, Mr. Minister, is gone. We have a fiction that there is a unique electoral list. The whole law is written so there's a fiction about a single voter's list. He's gone in real life. We will continue to have a set of electoral lists that are conducted in municipalities, or cities, but it is not a unique voter list. A unique polling list is not a mechanical set of hundreds and some of the electoral lists that exist in local self-government units in Serbia. So, you don't offer us a unique voter list, even in that material sense. No, you're offering us a fiction that there's a unique electoral list, a single polling list in reality doesn't exist. The question arises - which is why we are even discussing this bill, when the situation will remain more or less the same as it is now, will only increase the possibilities for electoral manipulation, because you will allow citizens to vote outside their place of residence, that is, in their place of residence. We already have, Mr. Shami pointed out nicely, a problem in the current state, where citizens can only vote in their place of residence, to exercise their right to do so. Imagine when special lists are started for citizens who vote in their place of residence, and for citizens who vote in the units of the Serbian Army, then for citizens who vote in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, etc. The question arises - who will technically conduct the elections that way. What's more important - who's going to control the legality of the election process on election day? Simply, this bill objectively allows a whole series of electoral manipulations. Mr. Todorovic told you nicely that you cannot mechanically compare countries with each other. The Republic of Serbia currently has an electoral system that is proportionate and the entire territory of the state is one electoral unit. That's why we need a single polling list. In the UK, it's not like that. There's no proportional electoral system. There's a simple majority or unital system. The entire territory of Great Britain, divided into as many electoral units as there are municipalities, and each municipality elects one MP in the lower house of the British Parliament. It's not technically possible to have a single polling list there either. It is possible for us, but unfortunately it will not be when this bill is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32755	Three minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32756	I personally think that, when we talk about the whole parliament, I suppose we are talking about state authority, and the government is trying, even in the case of a single electoral list, to advance the state of Serbia, as a prominent state, which provides and guarantees all those standards to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are standards and the EU state, and only because, for example, in this case, the electoral process takes place in a more transparent, more legal and democratic way, then I believe that this argument that you are making, in the end of the line, is an argument that justifies such legal solutions. We're not very different from what we're looking for. We differ only in whether this norm is given by the promoter can achieve that goal. We believe he can achieve that goal. Why? If we said that a number of data relating to citizens' status are led by a number of state authorities who do not have to at the same time at the level of local self-government to be networked, then of course this communication must run quickly, but in exactly this way. In doing so, it is not enough technique or software, it is also necessary to verify it. This checkup plus legal procedures leads to these deadlines. It is impossible for information and technology to, in this sense, in terms of a single electoral list in which the right, voting law, the Constitution guaranteed the right to do so at the same time. This technology is used, but the fact that a single polling list keeps records of people who have the right to vote, must have a certain procedure, a certain check that is not such speed as software. That's one thing. At the end of the line, when it is said immediately, in a large number of local self-governments, in a large number of municipal authorities of the administration, you will get at least a hundred different meanings in interpreting officers to what the word "immediately" binds them to as a deadline. Then it's far better as it's written -- right now, and at the latest, since there's "the latest" has a final determination. Then there's no dilemma about how someone's gonna do business, how someone's gonna do it. In my presentation, when I talked about the unique voter lists and mentioned some lands, long-term, well-checked, stable democracies, I mentioned, besides Great Britain and Holland, I mentioned Germany, but the point is the next. The unique voter list is a record of citizens of one state who have the right to vote independently of how they choose it, and therefore also in Britain and the Netherlands, which has a different way of choosing, it is quite possible, if this is a decision by the Government or parliament, to run a single electoral list on persons who have the right to vote, regardless of whether they express it and express it in proportional or majority elections. Simply, a single electoral list is needed because of the right to do so and for the record of the state authorities to protect it. It's the key to the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32757	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when you began to order these states that have a very stable democratic system, I'm surprised you mentioned Germany. Germany has had a democratic system since 1945, and until then it was the darkest dictatorship in mankind's history. For the Netherlands, I can accept that there is a longer democratic tradition. It's not true, Mr. Minister, that in local self-government people won't mean what the word "immediately" means, because you've actually confirmed for yourself what the moment is, so you said, but then it's explained, so it's said, no later than the next day of the change. In other words, when you say "now" it means the same day. That is how you could write - on the same day during working hours, the competent authorities provide that information by electronic means related to changes in the electoral list, according to official duty. Then there wouldn't be any dilemmas. One more thing I may not have understood in the best way, but it seems to me that you have said, it is not possible to accept our amendments because someone has to verify the accuracy of the data related to the change in the voter's list. If I understand correctly, that's the point of your intervention. That means we don't believe that the authorities don't trust the plight of local self-government and vice versa. There must be mutual trust between the republican authorities and the local self-government authorities. Where does that say? In what law does it say that the government authority has the right to determine whether the correct information provided to it by the authority of local self-government is related to the personal status of a citizen? First, these records, which are kept by the Republic authorities and local self-government authorities, are public records. The information contained in them is public. The documents issued on the basis of these records are public documents, whether issued by the ministry or issued by the municipal administration in the White Palanca. It's exactly the same as any public ID. It has the power to assume that what it says is true until proven otherwise. Now you say yes, but someone needs to check if it's true. Excuse me, where does that say? This means that there is no mutual trust between the republican authorities, between themselves and the republican authorities and the authorities of local self-government. Now the municipal administration of the White Palanca informs you that there has been some change in the personal status of a citizen who is a voter, and you say - well, but let's see if it's true, so call that citizen, show me a ID card or give me some other document that confirms it's true. It's just hard for the state to work that way. All amendments, Mr. Minister, serve to avoid the possibility of any abuse. The comparison of the Republic of Serbia with, as you say, stable and orderly democracies is lacking for one reason -- political opportunities in Serbia are not the same as political opportunities in Britain or the Netherlands or anywhere. Mr. Minister, it doesn't occur to your colleagues sitting in the British or Dutch government on the day of the election to share packages with the citizens. That's not what I heard. If you've heard, I'd like you to let me know so that my knowledge is richer than it is now. (President: National MP, the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. There's no voice buying there. There are no blank ballots coming out of the polls. That comparison is flawed because of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32759	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. About him, as well as the other amendments that the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have accepted, we will declare ourselves in the day for the vote. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Otto Kishmarton, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antic and Ljiljana Miladanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32760	I accept this amendment, submitted by the SNS, has enabled the voter to complain to the ministry when he finds that he is not satisfied with the response he received from the local self-government. In a certain way, he was given the right to have more time to heart, to find someone, to make a more serious complaint as an objection to the ministry to solve it, because, after that decision, he obviously has the right to appeal further. Time has been given for an individual, conflicted and faced with some brutality of local self-government, to seek help from the ministry. The particular question, which has not been resolved here, is how it will happen during the period of the ministry's absolute jurisdiction, the 15 minus three days. It really remains a question of how these deadlines will apply. That's not clear. I have the impression that the minister didn't understand me when I was talking about the previous member, and about this, because Article 13, it's about Article 12, especially that it's about each other, so in Section 3, where the ministry is in charge of the administration, the data in Article 2, not in Article 1, I expect that it should have been written paragraphs 1 and 2, so the rest of the sentence, because we're looking for a cut in the article. Because in Article 10, you can see that the solution is made by the ministry, those 12 days, it's impossible that the object of the decision and the reason for the decision will never be the data contained in Article 11. This was not taken into account in Article 11, paragraph 3, but only the information provided by the Ministry of Interior. It is impossible that only these data are relevant to the ministry to pass them on to local self-government units. Right now, by the way, we're going back to this proposal to think about it. If you saw that later, maybe it wouldn't be a problem, while you could still intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32761	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. As before, both the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment. In voting day, we'll make a statement about him. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radeta was submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32762	The day following the election, the municipal administration, which updates the polling list for the local self-government unit, shall present part of the polling list for the local self-government unit area, and shall advertise it through public information means and, if necessary, otherwise. We think this is – and, if necessary, completely excessive. It doesn't mean anything. This is too high and it doesn't mean anything by amendment we tried to supplement, let's say, on the local self-government unit website. I repeat again, you are constantly talking about various laws, we are passing the Law on electronic signature, electronic document, etc., and you are devoting yourself to the fullest possible electronic communications in this law. That's because you don't want to. That's because you don't have an answer to the question – where can an insight be made into a single polling list? It can't be because not even these partial ballots, which one day, according to you, are going to be a unique voter's list and it won't be any different than what's been at work for nine years and you don't want it, which is essentially a unique voter list. What's the question – why don't you want it? Because you want to manipulate the election will of the citizens. I spoke when Minister Markovic, in the municipality of Tutin in the second round of the 2004 election, was the president, when Muamer Zukorlic openly urged Muslims in the territory of the Raška area to vote for Boris Tadic, who then had all manipulations happening in polling stations, among other things, because of the lack of a single electoral list. Since I see Mrs. Comic watching that I no longer have time, I will continue to do so when I am following the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32763	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32764	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, very briefly on this amendment. He is the consequence of our amendment to Article 7. Unfortunately, if you had not accepted the amendment to Article 7, in that case that the ban on voting outside the place of residence, this member, as well as this title, would be completely unnecessary. That's why we suggested that they be deleted. However, once again, I will return to the key amendment that precedes this, to Article 7, I did not wish then, Mr. Minister, to enter the replicas with you, but you did not understand me. I said it would be normal for such a law to be accepted by general consensus, but that is why it is necessary to accept most of the amendments the opposition has given. The Democratic Party of Serbia has given four very important amendments. It's actually two amendments. Both of you have been smoothly rejected and you realize that we are doing about the same job, it's about as if you'd realized that a thief and a cop are doing the same job. They do the same job, but one steals, and the other prevents it. Otherwise, Mr. Pericic, I apologize, you have asked the Minister's question – how the election participants will control the unique voter list. I have the freedom to tell you, not at all. No, because that's what you'll see when I talk about the amendment to Article 21, or on the proposal of a new member, who's also been rejected, in no way, because the joke is in it. Someone hopes that if he sits in power now, he will be able to control his own election list for his own purposes, use it for various promotional purposes and everything else, and no one else will be able to approach the voter's list. I can make sure I'm like Zoran Shami on the list. I can do that, but let me see if Mr. Sreto Peric is registered in 15 places. On the other 14 to come some Zoran Shami to vote, I can't. That's quite clear. I've been running ten years of election fraud. I can write five dissertations on that subject. You're very naive if you think the provisions of this law won't come back to you as strangers. About that later. That's what I said at first, we should all have an interest in putting such a controlling mechanism into this law so no one can think of cheating on cards. Of course you didn't want to. I thank you, so there'll be a chance to talk more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32765	A minute and 30 seconds has been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Peric is registered in the electronic system. Your task force has no more time. The right to replicate the presentation of Parliamentarian Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32766	Mr. Shami, I appreciate you as a person and a university professor. At least I expected you to give me that answer. He is indeed adequate, but I expected such an answer from Mr. Chiplic, from the minister who today represents this law and answers our amendments and should be this government, and especially this minister who is sitting here, that what you were saying should be taken into account. You admit to something late, though, because you've been in power for a while, that there have been these mistakes, especially I will remember your word when you say it – until now they've all ruled. The time will come, and those who will rule will change again. We're not passing this law right now. We bring it in for next first election, presidential, parliamentary, it doesn't matter. We're bringing it in for a series of undetermined, yet unknown choices. At least that's how it's supposed to be. And with that, indeed Professor, thank you, but I least expected you to give me an answer, because he, apart from what I appreciate, can mean something to me, but he's not adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32767	The 15th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted this amendment, but we will declare it in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32768	Article 16 The bill, by its scope, belongs to one of the, as I would say, larger members. Basically, they regulate the request of our fellow citizens who stay abroad, and they want to express their desire to vote there and vote on the basis of their residence, not their residences. I have proposed an amendment that is informative, informative and wonderfully accepted by both the Government and the Committee. I proposed to the ministry in charge of management that it is obliged to publish the fact on the Ministry's site immediately after the election is called. The government accepted that. It is an informative character only and no other amendment that has the essence and wants to shorten some deadlines – it does not find it appropriate to accept it. Here, Mr. Minister, a good example of the position of 2nd Article 16 which indicates that it will not be, and this is not the only attitude that can be used in the argument that we will still not have JBS. Here, I will use it given that we are in the area of Article 16 and says – about the requirement of the 1st position, so the citizen who is staying in the United States or in the Russian Federation can apply to be included in the polling list in the place of residence. This also applies to the requirement laid down in Article 1(1), the Ministry of Administration shall decide on which it informs the competent municipality, or the city in which the voter has residences in the country. I'm getting the impression that the department of management is competent, I'm allowing you to see differently and comment definitely, or that there's a transmission between someone who's not at a given moment, specifically I'm talking about Article 16, maybe listed in the voting list or here he is, but he wants to vote elsewhere, or the Ministry of State Administration should accept only that request, forward it to the competent local administration, and that the competent local administration should include him in that list and where there's a unique polling list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32769	Thank you. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee also accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been accepted, so you probably get the impression that it does not need to be specifically explained, but I do want to do it anyway to make Serbian citizens know what the Serbian government thinks about its own bill. In Article 18, after the word "chosen" I suggested that instead of a point, the words "right after receiving the total number of voters" be added. Namely, it is about the publication of the total number of voters in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". In my explanation, I said, a brief explanation is that the proposed solution is in Article 18. The bill is imprecise and inexplicable. Then the Serbian government tells us - the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendments. Therefore, the Government itself finds and acknowledges that the proposed solution is imprecise and unarranged. If you remember the principle debate on the bill, Mr Milan Markovic was deadlyly offended if the MP tells him something contrary to his opinion, or if he criticises the proposed solutions, and then does not pass for a few days, the Serbian government, in which the same minister sits, admits that individual solutions in the bill are imprecise and unarranged. Here we MPs are convinced that the bill is great, the public debate has passed, experts have participated in the drafting of the bill, provided all possible and impossible conditions for fair and fair elections and when there – the publication of the total number of voters in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and here we acknowledge that the solution is incorrect and unarranged. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing the bill's proposals, and this is a typical example of such legislation that even its own proponent does not have a very high opinion. Then you can imagine what will happen when these laws become laws and the laws begin to be implemented in your lives, or when you become subjects of these and such unspeakable and inaccurate laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32771	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić and Željko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32772	This amendment is also a consequence of the amendment to Article 7 and I will only take another chance to ask the legislator of this law - that there is still time to accept the DSS amendment to Article 7 and then automatically accept the amendments to Articles 15 and 19, for the reasons I have stated, and when I talk about the next amendment to Article 21, then you will hear everything else that follows about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32773	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 19 by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32774	Here, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to thank the government for having an understanding and, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, to express my satisfaction, because 16 of my amendments have been adopted. There were some members left that the government had in its original form. More naturally – listen to Vladan Batić, you will have better laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32775	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32776	Article 20(2) states: "The RIK only takes into account those solutions of the ministry responsible for the administration which received at least 48 hours before the election day and on the basis of which it makes changes to the copies of the electoral list or to special copies of the electoral list." This is what we suggested to delete and immediately say: "it also declares in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" the final number of voters in the Republic of Serbia, in each local self-government unit and in every polling post". We also suggested that it be deleted. I'd like the genius now to explain to us, based only on this 2nd Article 20 attitude - where is JBS? This is what I was talking about, Mr. Zoran Petrovic. You remember when Mr. Milan Markovic got very angry. He told me that I obviously didn't read the law that's on the agenda, because this is exactly what I was talking about, about the position of Article 20(2). It's clear and loud, and now the citizens can hear the quote, said we don't actually have after this law, we won't have JBS. We ask for nothing, Mr. Chipletic, all day long – where can a citizen make an insight into JBS? I will now say what you should say, because you will not, be ashamed – respected citizens, nor will you be able to make an insight into JBS, nor will JBS exist in the Republic of Serbia after the adoption of this law. More respected citizens, let me explain. It is nothing complicated and can be done in two months, but DS, this regime, does not want it because the regime wants to preserve power by stealing your will in all future elections, dear, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32777	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32778	Dear Members, I can guarantee that there is no one in this room or in this country who would end or play with the election will of the citizens. At the end of the line, I don't see any evidence when someone is proposing a single ballot bill that he has some kind of evil will. Article 20 of Article 2 is about special performances and I simply feel that it would be an ideal situation that would make us all calm, in which there would be no shadow of doubt that what is called a single polling list is still something segmented, only if one administration body in the whole of the Republic kept all the data. At that time, there would be no need for mutual communication, all of which would exist in one place. That's impossible. So, in the situation where we're talking about a single polling list, we have legal procedures, administrative procedures, if you want electronic procedures. They all come together here. Article 20(2) refers only to special copies of the electoral list. I accept that I may not understand this matter, I accept that I do not see what you see in this attitude, but I certainly cannot see in the terms of this law, despite my best wishes, that this is proof that someone here is going to want to play by election will, that they are going to want to go beyond election will. Because of this position in Article 20, what is this mechanism? I don't see him. At the end of the line, it doesn't mean that what we think differently we don't understand, but the fact that the paper you read and I read, which we all have ahead of us, is the same thing. The unique voter list, and this is an idea, speaks of all voters who have the right to vote being uniquely led, that their rights, their right to go to the elections are recorded and protected through the record of a special voter list, that they be made available insight into this and that the Republic of Serbia enters a circle of states that has a transparently set up a single voter list. But we can't have those procedures that cross each other, which are used, erased, and since they exist and will always exist, we'll suspect that their existence will lead to abuse. It's just like that. I have no doubt in the work of officials in the bodies of local self-government who do so. I just can't doubt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32779	The People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta has been reported in the electronic system. You want to replicate the minister? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32780	Let me get this straight. Mr. Chiplet, I allow you to conclude that I'm not a good enough lawyer, that I'm not smart enough, but you can't say I can't read. A moment ago, the citizens heard that I had read nice, unspeakable. I learned to read a long time ago. Mr. Chiplicu, if you claim that the application of this law will produce a single electoral list in the Republic of Serbia, then most nicely please answer the question we have been asking you for two hours: where will the introduction to this unique electoral list be possible? The unique electoral list, Minister Chiplic, does not mean any special copies, nor copies by local self-government. I'm convinced, Mr. Chiplet, that you know it better than Mrs. Comic, you're a lawyer, she's not. It would be really nice to hear you as a representative of the government. You've said here several times that you guarantee. You've shown that you don't really appreciate me, and I appreciate you, so I personally trust you, but Mr. Minister, we don't trust the government, we don't trust the DS, we don't trust the regime. We want what you believe is written in law. You, Mr. Minister, see the invisible. You see, you're right, colleague Markovic, stealth a unique voter list. You may have good intentions, yourself, because that's what you're showing here today, but as part of the government and as a government, you don't have that intention. Do you know what happens when you vote, what the voter lists are like? It will remain the same under this law abroad. We have one letter to the Republic Election Commission delivered by professional services. He knows Mr. Veljko Odalovic. You have an uncovered two million dinars in the name of some advances to members of an extended assembly of election committees. Whoever sent those members of the extended composition doesn't exist, there's no record. Not to mention another 10 million in the name of some...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32781	People's MPs, you got a line to clarify with the minister's position. What you're quoting is part of the election process.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32782	Here, I plead and strictly by law, and this is also about the law, because these special statements that this member and Mr. Ciplic speak of among other things and this vote in the white world. And there will be abuse, because it will not be part of the unique. You know, if you say you're going to publish special lists in the official messenger, you can't convince anyone smart, normal, alive that it's unique. Why didn't you write -- we're going to publish a single polling list, so the Official Messenger is going to be this fat, so I'm going to list, list, list, so I can find myself in five places on the ballot, Mr. Chiplic? It's very simple, just say -- yes, we want a unique voter list, but we're saying no, you're not going to make a unique voter list. You distract both the citizens of Serbia and the MPs only because we have a law called the Single Election List Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32783	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32784	I'm going to be very brief, even with the risk of this being considered a private statement, I'm simply saying you shouldn't have the general impression that I don't appreciate you, far from it. At the very end of the line, I have apostrophyd my curiosity about my understanding of this article, in that sense, by wanting to know from an esteemed lawyer and an esteemed letter to the vision of what you see and what I see, because in that position of that member I do not see a mechanism that will show that the single list is not unique but that it is segmental. In that sense, it was my remark back then, and the address now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32785	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32786	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have been closely following the debate and amendments that my colleagues from the opposition parties have submitted to this law on the single electoral list, and I can freely say that I have modest legal knowledge, but I have completed some colleges too, so I know little about election issues and I have to tell you next. I have carefully read the law, the law is very concise, precise and clear and represents a clear step, another major step towards democratisation of our society. When you had such good amendments, I really live now in a dilemma why you did not apply the knowledge you now possess when you were in power, ladies and gentlemen of the SRS, but I understand the SRS parliamentary group that says our voter list is not good because they are not good with the election results in Leposavic. I understand a political party that argues that the law that has just been passed because of the results of the elections that occurred before the law was passed. Not only in Leposavic, good results were for DS in Vrnjačka Banja, but they were not for the SRS parliamentary group, because there were more invalid ballots in Vrnjačka Banja, but they were for the SRS parliamentary group. But, again, when we consider all aspects of this law, all the objections, all the suggestions, I have to say that many amendments have been accepted and that these amendments serve to enlarge and advance the law. However, the fact is that some are not satisfied with the election results. You can change the law, you can change your policy, but you can't change the people. The people vote as they expressed their will in Leposavic, Vrnjačka Banja and wherever the local elections are held. I know you're not happy with these results. I know you're not happy that Minister Chiplic is here. I know you're not satisfied with his arguments, but it might be best if you don't show your dissatisfaction by needless criticism of a law, because in Serbia elections are definitely won by voters, not by counters, who freely express their will. Those who don't pass the censorship have a place in this room on the balcony, upstairs. So, make sure this hall expands, you'll need it for the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32787	Right to replication, MP Verica Radet, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32788	Of course, very briefly, without the intention of getting involved with a folk MP who plays solitaire, and then just wake up to congratulate the government, I don't know what, but I just want to draw attention to the public, that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, in Article 12, regulates the existence of a single electoral list and that it is the most deserved SRS. The problem is that the DS regime has never wanted to make a single polling list in the last nine years, and of course it still doesn't want to make a voter list. And from there is what you called the Single Election List Act. I tried before, but we never have enough time to say everything we want, to have copies from the polling list, where there's a man with absolutely identical data who's been entered twice and a DS representative at the polling station says -- take two ballots and go ahead a few times, before every election in the municipality, that someone goes to delete from that polling post. He says no, you can't do that. Let's get you, that's how it works for us. We expected such problems to be solved by a regulation that will only be developed by article 12. The law on the election of MPs, but you don't want it. We'll still have the same kind of problem, and we'll still have double enlisted, and we'll still have the dead on the ballots. When you clear the lists, we never, we Serbian radicals, have ever opposed the will of citizens. Never. We have always respected the will of citizens, but precisely because of these citizens we want to draw your attention that you stop breaking and stealing citizens' will. The will of the citizens is sacred and should be sacred. Citizens must express their electoral right and their electoral will in a democratic way, not that you charge buses with students, so that you drive them from one place to vote elsewhere, only on condition that they will give you that one walking ticket, where they will be seen to vote for DS. You have as many examples as you want. You have people who are willing to say it publicly, as much as you want. But if you had the will, maybe it wasn't your wish, maybe it was your wish, let's say, local committees in Nis, because I took Nis as an example, but come on, let's both yours and ours and everyone, break the electoral will. Bring a truly unique electoral list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32789	Three minutes. Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32790	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I still feel that the law is good, and the apropo solitaire, I understand that some do not play solitaire, but it is a thought game and requires certain intellectual efforts, as is the writing of the amendment. So, thought activities. I wish some of them were playing on the computer and playing solitaire, not playing with our lives and fates, or with Kosovo. On the other hand, when we talk about this law, I still have to remind myself of the time when the now reportedly awakened conscience of the SRS parliamentary group reminds us that they have always fought for citizens' rights. I remember that time, and I remember when Serbia was in a democracy to the throat, and thank God it's not coming back, because Serbia is going forward. Today we're bringing in a unique voter list. Everyone here will be able to be registered. Everyone will be able to use their electoral right in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone will be able to be chosen and choose, but I'm underlining again, you can change the law, you can change politics, but you can't change the people. I know that perhaps some would like to change the people of Leposavic, Vranjska Banja, etc., where they have not received votes and understand their bitterness. It's fair to lose the election. It's logical and angry after that. But first of all, be angry with yourself, not DS, because she beat you. I really am not guilty of people believing Boris Tadic, DS, because they believe in the Constitution, because they believe that Leposavic is in the heart of Serbia, because they believe that DS is the leading power of this society and we no doubt show it in the elections. It is important for Vozdovec, too, is important in Leposavic. It is important wherever elections are held, that citizens freely express their will and that these elections be won by voters, not by voters. We, by introducing a single polling list, provide the environment, that in Serbia elections are won by voters once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32791	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32792	I expected you, Mr. Minister, to at least say - thank you, Ambassador Batic, for infuriating with your 16 amendments, as Srdjan Milivojevic said, this law. Thank you, MP Batic, because this has not happened in the history of this House, I will propose that the government accept your proposal for a law on denationalisation, on opening files, on amendments to the Ministry Act, I think, correctness is what I expect of you, Mr. Ciplic. There is one problem in this law that even the knowledge of MP Batic cannot fix, which is a unique voter list when it comes to diaspora. It's a serious, huge and extremely big and important job. I'll help the government, but it takes time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32793	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is registered in the electronic system. You have no right to a replica. The right to replica was obtained by Parliament MP Verica Radeta, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 101(2) who says this - if offensive expressions refer to MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32795	National MP, a member of 101 can't be the subject of injuries during the session. Thank you. National MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 21a be added after article 21. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you just said we could be calm. We have one amendment, you accept it, and then we'll be a little more calm. The DSS suggested adding a new title and a new member of 21a after article 21. The title is - The right to see part of the data of the single electoral list for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Then Article 21a, I will not read it all, but I will read what is most important - the Ministry of Management is obliged to submit the following information to participants at the request of an election participant, 72 hours before the election is held, the following information: 1) the list of home numbers of all citizens enrolled in the single polling list, therefore, the numbers of origin (now being discussed by which technology it appears, I will not read it); 2) that along with the number of citizens the municipality in which the voter list is entered, as well as the date of entry into the voter list. What are we looking for with this amendment? We are looking for the possibility that any participant in the election can control the voter list, while we are not looking for names, we are not looking for addresses, regardless of whether someone named Petar Petrovic is behind a home number or where he lives. There is no possibility that participants in the selection of this data will abuse in such a way that, I say, they will do some propaganda for their party etc., but that if they want to control, they can certainly, any participant of the choice, make some of their own software and check various data, for example, whether there are multiple entries with the same parent number, no matter what it's called. Then, if there are dead souls, etc. They're checking whatever they want to check. I don't see any reason why this wouldn't be done. You deliver in electronic form, we don't need names, I don't care what someone's name is. The only thing that matters to me is that I can probably get everyone to check to see if anyone's registered 15 times, see if they have any imaginary names. We remember very well in the '90s, there was a whole army of people who came out of the polling station with fake IDs and voted 10 or 15 minutes for who they were supposed to vote for. That's a fact. Just because we've introduced sprays doesn't mean anything. Every chemistry has its own anti-chemistry, and it's not worth talking about. The DSS essentially submitted two important amendments. One, to ban voting outside the residence and the other, from allowing election participants to control the voter's list in this way. Minister Markovic tried to explain last time why this should not be accepted. It says – in some local self-governments you have the opportunity to type in your home number and get all the data. Well, at least that's easy to solve. Introduce some additional code in this process of local self-government, that it can't just be based on the parent's number, that you should also have the ID number or something, and you've solved the problem. Why, I'd really like to get a real explanation, but why can't something like this be given to election participants? What's the matter? In this way anyone could control the voter lists, catch irregularities, if any, whether they exist on purpose or not. I even think there are certain gaps and unintentional ones in the polling list, we're a lot of sloppy people by nature, and those who work in local organs are pretty sloppy, and there's still going to be plenty of water for Sava and Danube until that changes. Refusing this amendment suggests something else. It suggests that in fact you wouldn't want anyone to control the voter list, I don't see any other explanation. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to, as you say, make us calm, so accept this amendment to the DSS. Otherwise, you didn't understand me at first. I said it would be very good if this kind of law was passed with the widest possible consensus and that would be really good, then these amendments and some other amendments and the DSS and even the opposition should be accepted and then... . No one would have a problem voting for this law. By not accepting these amendments, the DSS will certainly not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32797	The time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 100(4) has been injured: "The National MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the Chairman and to explain what the injury is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. “ I would like to try, Mrs. Komic, to explain what the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been done on your part, but you seem to continue with the old practice that you do not allow MPs to use those two minutes and explain in those two minutes what the chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure. If you from that place have to defend your MPs who play solitaire...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32799	People's MP, a member of 101 can't be the subject of procedure and this... (Alexander Martinovic: I refer to article 100.) People's MP, you have called on Article 100 of Section 4 to discuss the explanation of the injury. In your previous report, you listed Article 101 as an injury, which cannot be the subject of an infringement of the procedure, because the decision to give a replica is made by the chairman. (Alexander Martinovic: Where does it say he can't?) ) You received a word and injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You abuse the law of Article 100 and I warn you not to do so. Business rights are equal for all MPs. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. People's MP, Alexander Martinovic, I warned you that you were already abused by members of 100. (Alexander Martinovic: Please, most kindly, where does it say?) ) and the right to a word has done a violation which obliges me to give you measures of caution, which I do not wish, as you do, so I ask you to behave in accordance with the business provisions. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment and we will declare it. National MP Mico Rogovic is in the application and you have a word, since you have 10 minutes left. Since you're not an applicant according to this or the previous amendment, then there's no injury to the procedure at which you get your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32800	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, it is finally time to pass a law like this, but as Honorable counterpart Shami spoke about the amendment of the DSS to Article 21, we would indeed be at peace that members of the other parties, not only of the ruling coalition, that you have also proposed an amendment, that is, what the DSS MPs proposed by the amendment to Article 21 pointed out and accepted. In favor of all that, I'll make you some arguments. The previously completed elections in Leposavic have shown that, for example, stem numbers create such problems, because people have been deleted a few days before the election, and that the other data remain, regardless of which party members they are involved. So, it is evident that the violations of these rules are in all elections, and I am really wondering how the upcoming elections in Kostolc will go, given that it is the first time the elections scheduled for the newly established municipality of Kostolac. For example, here's a situation. A few minutes ago, a call came to the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group of citizens from the Vozdovac municipality, which said a 26-seat building had received calls for upcoming local elections for 18 dead people from the entrance. It doesn't matter if he's a member of a party, it's important that the minister's presence was necessary here, because the management minister is in charge of implementing this law. This is truly amazing that such a law has no criminal provisions – neither for people who are in local self-government responsible for the implementation of this law nor for the ministry responsible for the administration. The law as a law has its good side, but it also has faults. The procedure for the implementation in practice of the law and control of the single electoral list indeed remains open, given the possibility of private behaviour of each person in charge of the implementation of this law and the absence of any form of criminal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32801	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee also accepted this amendment. Since we don't have a report from the Legislative Committee, we'll make a statement about it in the voting day. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. And this amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. And this amendment was accepted by both the Government and the Justice and Administration Committee. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Justice Committee and the administration have also accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Rule 30, was also submitted by the Committee on Justice and Management. The proposing representative accepted this amendment by the Committee, but since, as for the amendments previously accepted, we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, the National Assembly will declare itself on all amendments in the voting day. Does anyone want a word from members of the parliamentary groups, authorized representatives, who are still entitled to it? I'm sorry. Members of the 30 amendments were submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32802	We have submitted an amendment quite contrary to this which you have just read that it has been accepted. Namely, it's about Article 30, it's short, I'll read it. It reads -- this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and starts to apply one year from the date of entry into force. We have given the amendment to reduce that deadline to six months because we believe that this is not any wisdom to perform the necessary actions and that, I say, within six months, the law enters into force. On the contrary, it seems a little over a year, so the previous amendment was adopted, to make it two years. So, this law will practically start to apply only from 1 January 2012, to circle. I don't see any reason to even pass this law. Why bring it in if we know in advance that we won't apply it for the next two years? Then why should we bring it? It's completely pointless to postpone law enforcement for two years. It basically means, or someone thinks, he's awfully sure that in the next two years there won't be a choice, I'm not so sure. Regardless of everything, I don't see the purpose of law-making, if we're going to start applying it in two years. And let me tell you right now, I guess that's also clear to the laymen, that the actions that are needed to complete, in order for this law to be applied, are relatively easy to complete. We're in a computer era. This is a matter of electronic communication and nothing more. There's no wisdom in starting to apply this sooner. Seeing as there's no indication that some key DSS amendments will be accepted, I'll do it again, and that'll end it. The DSS, unfortunately, cannot vote for this law and I am afraid, the law will be passed by overvote, and I said once again – this is the kind of law where overvote is not allowed. These kinds of laws, such as election laws, etc., must be passed by one, let me say, general political consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32803	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to say a word without being a proposing person who wants a word? No, I don't. ) Since this was the last amendment in the search that we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask if the proposaler's representative wants the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the draft law on the single census in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I decide to take a break, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85, that today we will be working after 1800 hours, until the search for a point that is on the agenda. I apologize, not until the end, but to some logical work, since ending would mean a total time for discussion and amendments. I think it will be clearer to say – no longer than 60 to 90 minutes after 1800 hours. I'm now setting a break from 14.15 to 15.15. At 3:15 p.m., we begin the search in detail on the bill on gender equality. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin the session in the afternoon. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is on the basis of a search in detail on the 23rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality and pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, called for the session to be attended by Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Natalija Micunovic, director of the Directorate for Gender Equality at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 23rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE EVALUATION OF POLOVA (individualities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Gordana Rajkov, Stojanka Petković, Snezana Stojanović-Plavić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Avramović, Sladjan Mijaljevic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Ševanovic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Marjanović, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Janković, Ljiljana Miladinović, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zalan Colić, Saša Maksa Maksimović, Zoran Antimić, Milan Kljević, Elvira Kovrić, Elvira Kovrić, Božar Delić, Božar, Božar Žalić, Žović Žalić, Žalić and Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić. You received a report from the Committee on Gender Equality and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, with a correction from 20.11.2009. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for the search in particular on this agenda: MP Nikola Krpic - MP group PUPS, MP Elvira Kovac - MP group of minorities, national MP Natasa Micicic - MP group LDP, MP Miletic Mihajlović - MP group of SPS - JS, MP Milica Vojić-Marković - MP group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Milan Knezevic - MP for Serbia, MP Jelena Travar-Miljević - MP for the G17 plus, MP for the Slovenian group of SRS and National MP Bojana Stanojevic - MP for the ZES. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on gender equality. Article 1 refers to the subject matter of the regulation of the law. The proposed amendment after the word "edit" adds the words "equality of women and men". The government has not accepted our amendment with an explanation that it is absolutely clear about equal opportunities based on half, quote the government's argument. We have submitted the amendment for a number of reasons, and one of the most important things is that Article 1 is not clear, because equal opportunities and gender equality are not the same concepts. You did not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 15, which clearly defines gender equality and says: the state guarantees equality between women and men and develops a policy of equal opportunities. So the Constitution of Article 15 also mentions the equality of women and men and equal opportunities policies. That your argument is incorrectly indicated by Article 2 in which you state what gender equality means, then Article 3 which speaks about what the policy of equal opportunities means and Article 10 relating to the meaning of the concepts, and in point 3 point 1 defines equal opportunities. You're trying to drag this bill through a small door, presenting it as a historic chance to solve gender equality problems. However, we do not know whether this is a bill on gender equality or a proposal for a law on gender equality. Why do I say that? By accepting amendments to Article 1, three MPs of the ruling coalition, which I will quote and relating to Article 1, says: after the words "based on half", the words "and gender" are added. Furthermore, MPs also cite in all the other members of the bill, which mentions the word "pol" in the appropriate grammar form, the words "and the stork" are added. By adopting this amendment, the law applies not only to gender equality, but also to gender equality, so the title of the law is not adequate. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not mention gender equality in any member, but only talks about full equality. That's why this bill is anti-constitutional, so we suggest you withdraw it from the procedure, because you haven't passed it since 2000 and you withdrew the previous version of this bill. Agree it with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and thus would not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in a better way solve the problem of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32806	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32807	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I express my satisfaction on behalf of the PUPS that amendments to the Law on Gender Equality will be discussed today in a comprehensive way in the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By considering amendments to gender equality, with the active participation of all MPs, from the legislator, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality, to each of the inhabitants of our country and beyond, to which the amendments to be considered today are to improve the text of the law on gender equality. The President-in-Office, after the adoption of the law on the prohibition of discrimination and the adoption of other laws, among them, and this proposal, which is, in its character, anti-discriminatory, constitutes a logical trail of things. The inclusion in world flows and the creation of a democratic society of equal opportunities requires such a document, given that in 1995, at the Fourth World Conference of the UN, gender equality as the basic principle of development programmes must be included in all aspects of policy-making, programme and project planning, institutional structures and decision-making procedures. Serbia is the last country in Europe that does not have this law and is late for countries in the region. All of this needs to be welcomed by the final determination to adopt this law. Although the following lines can be viewed as a school example of law-examination and lexiety, I believe that a distinction between gender and gender should be made, as in the public layman would be very often confused by the use of gender equality classes, an hour of gender equality. It should also be noted that experts dealing with this issue use the term "natural equality" whenever they talk about this subject, followed by a simple explanation. People are born as persons of the female or male sex, and when it's spoken of half, it's thought of their biological, physical characteristics based on which they differ. Discrimination, which exists in society and which this bill seeks to eliminate, is not based on biological characteristics, but on gender. Rod represents the social design of the biological half of women and men. In other words, gender shows how one society sees the role of a woman and a man and refers to a whole range of ideas and expectations regarding these roles. According to the European Charter of Gender Equality at the local level of this idea and expectations are not something that comes from birth itself, but from the process of socialization in family, school and society and similar learning and differences between societies and cultures. Thus, gender equality should be discussed rather than gender equality. Another fact that refers to the term "birth equality" is that it includes persons of different gender identities, and one anti-discrimination law, as is thought to be, must include this category. So the sex is reserved for physiology and anatomy, while gender is a social structure. The European Charter uses the term "equal equality" and defines it in the following way - gender equality assumes that in one society, community or organisation there are equal opportunities for women, men and persons of different gender identities to contribute to cultural, political, economic and social progress, and that they have equal opportunities to enjoy all the benefits and benefits of the progress of one community. The PUPS believes that after the adoption of new amendments and the law itself, until the day for the vote, it proposes that this law be called a law on gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32808	Four minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The first amendment was submitted by MPs Jelena Travar-Miljević, Gordana Rajkov and Stojanka Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Gender Equality accepted the amendment in the basic text, but did not consider correcting the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32809	Mr Minister, Article 2 paragraph 3 reads - the provisions of this law cannot be interpreted in a way that would lead to the abolition and restriction of any existing right laid down by other regulations. In fact, we feel that there is no need for this attitude to stand, so we have proposed to delete it, not because we believe that this attitude is contrary to our legislative system, but because we think that logically there is no need to introduce this at all, because it is clear that there are laws, such as the Law against discrimination and similar laws, and this law is in that group, in which this thing is absolutely natural and normal. Now there's something else I'd like to say, offered by what you've been saying here in an explanation for why you don't accept this amendment. This law has several very complicated and unnecessary things and things that I think should be commented on. You have one number of provisions that can't be called legal norms at all, and that's what should be deleted from this law right now, not this insertion, this attitude. For example, Article 14 says -- public authorities should seek to secure 30% representation. This -- this should try to be what we're saying is unnecessary. You need public authorities to get them to do their job, not to try. Because it can be something they can or don't have to be, and that's what's controversial about us. Also, in Article 34, in Section 1, 2, 3 you have the same thing - educational institutions are obliged to seek to exercise some rights. It just seems to me that's what needs to be commented on. That's what we need to draw attention to, and we as MPs of the opposition and you as a representative of the government to answer us, and as far as we're concerned, there's no need to stand because it's implying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32810	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32811	Very short. Your objection is in place and we have accepted the amendment of the Committee. It is Article 14, because it really is a rogue syntagm - they should try, when used - to apply affirmative measures in accordance with the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32812	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32813	I'd use these two minutes to say why it's a good thing that the promoter accepted this amendment. In this regard, point 3 lists all bodies that are required to monitor the achievement of gender-based equality in all areas of social life, the application of international standards and the Constitution of guaranteed rights in this area. In this list, a mistake was stolen from the promoter. Namely, when it comes to the authorities of the AP, then there is the impression that the proposer is losing sight that there are two APs in the RS and we have seen it and in the amendment we have offered a correction, so that this article will stand - that the authorities of the Autonomous provinces are obliged to monitor the achievement of gender equality, etc. Somehow this mistake is stolen in many of the bill's proposals. We're trying to correct these mistakes. Let the ministries understand what we're talking about, let them not. I thank the promoter for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32814	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32815	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Avramovic wanted to be precise from the very beginning, in the name of the SRS parliamentary group, to regulate the law on gender equality, because not only the termological, but also in the real sense, it is a much better term for the state authorities to develop, not how you wrote water to a policy of equal opportunities. We worked Serbianly, referring to this bill and submitting amendments, referred to the strategic documents adopted by numerous international organisations, particularly the Beijing Declaration adopted in 1995, then the UN Charter of Human Rights, the General Declaration of Human Rights and other international documents using the term "development". In the plan for action, which is clearly worked out and what I will talk about later, in parts of the Beijing Declaration, which refers to every segment of social, public, political life, the engagement of women and men, and this is also the treatment of family rights and children's rights, the term "development". For what? If you say that you are actively running politics, it means that it is already established and that you are just continuing to run it, and that this law should, in fact, be called upon by all the declared international standards and the Convention on the Rights of Children, not only single mothers, but by single parents at all, so that you would agree, lawyers, that the correct term if the parent is alone and sustains his child, so developing a policy of equal opportunities – equal opportunities for employment, equal opportunities for participation in public and social life, equal opportunities to combat all negative phenomena in society. I think you should have accepted that because our society should have come into this situation to develop these partner relationships between men and women. I don't mean in a different sense, but in terms of social progress, because without such communication and without the active participation of men above all, if in this case women are less represented gender, which in our parliamentary group is shown as intensity. You can also see that our authorised representative is our colleague Dragan Stevanovic. We don't want to have, God forbid, a feminist attitude on this matter. We believe that in Serbia, as well as in any society, dialogue is needed between men and women, in this partnership relationship, a fellow MP in the National Assembly, with you as a minister, and that is the policy of developing opportunities. So you have a colleague, colleague Lakicevic-Stojačić. I think you understand what the intensity of counterpart Milan Avramovic was – that we show to all Serbia that this law is adopted not because of any quotas, but because the less represented sex should be classified in all segments of our lives as a percentage, whether it is employment or politics, we must now, in some way, commit all authorities to respect it at least minimally. We'll see later that you're a very academic approach, because you say yes, and it doesn't mean yes. We put it everywhere to say it has to, when it's a percentage. Again, I must remind you, this knows very well Mrs. Komic, and here you are, Mr. Ljajic, that the president of our party, Dr. Vojisaav Seselj, insisted that the amendment be accepted at that time by the president of the Committee on Equality, colleague Lejla Ruzdic, that the less represented sex, in this case the ladies, be found in 30% of the lists for local elections and be elected to the local parliaments. It's largely, you have to admit, it also changed the role of women in political life, so you also have women who are in very responsible positions in the organs of local, municipal and executive authorities. Therefore, if you accept this, we will reach our own consensus now, is that right, here is one fellow MP proposing, a Serbian radical, to lead a policy of developing equal opportunities and thus make progress for the whole society. In order to ensure full implementation, i.e. the application of rights, human rights, rights to work, rights to life, respect for all that the Constitution guarantees both men and women, our society and power which is currently irresponsible in many segments when it comes to social status and position, both men and women, especially women. We'll see about that later through the actual data of their unfortunately reduced earnings. Let me remind you that in the Council of Europe in June, we just adopted such a resolution on the use of women on this basis, so counterpart Dragan Stevanovic provided information that Serbia is not the worst in that sense, as some wanted to present it. Many countries that are members of the EU, in which Serbia will certainly not enter before such a form collapses itself, are far behind us by many indicators. While this is not such a dreary statistic when it comes to these differences, it is much higher in the UK, Finland, the Netherlands and many other countries, the difference between what women receive in the net amount and how much higher the percentage of what men receive. Also, when it comes to the insurance segment, we have also treated this Resolution of the Council of Europe with one point, you can imagine that there are such examples in the EU, where you say everything is wonderful and wonderful and wonderful – that women on maternity leave have a lower percentage of insurance. On the other hand, we don't have a chance here for women in local self-government units in many cities, even though it's their obligation, to get that necessary compensation for a firstborn child. Not only that, but the Grand Conference on Children held in New York in 1990, as well as on human rights in 1993 on the development of the population and the world in general and on social development in Copenhagen in 1995, all with the aim of achieving equality and development, as these documents say. However you translate, it is the only word from English to Serbian, that is, they know the term – "no water", but rather "develop" a policy of equal opportunities. Now I'm trying to convince you to accept this amendment now on the spot, to complete this presentation and simply send a message as an SRS MP to the entire Serbian public, and to women and men, that we really want to programically define a policy of equal opportunities for both genders in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32816	Eight minutes and 45 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32817	We accept the amendment of Ambassador Avramović – that is Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32818	I find that the motionary has accepted the amendment during the session. About him, as well as the other amendments accepted by the Proposer, as well as the Committee, we will declare ourselves in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, I would like to thank you on behalf of the DSS for accepting this amendment. I would ask you to listen with the attention of our amendment in the future, because they were founded and exceeded. I hope that today during the discussion you will also accept a number of our amendments, as I said, because they are good and good written, in accordance with this law, and above all defends the rights of women and men, where they are somewhere in the minority. In that sense, I thank you again. I hope you will pay attention to our amendments and accept one more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32820	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32821	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(2) to replace the word “achievement” with the word “existence”. The explanation is – the amendment is not accepted because it is not a language improvement. Of course, I didn't think I'd just language-progress the text, but if it's possible, it's a little more practical. So the law must promote and prescribe that best possible condition and, of course, threatened punishment when someone is wrong about a law. If the law says "achievement", that means that the law is not well-rounded and decadent and that it can be interpreted very widely, that some process is under way. It is regulated through certain strategies. The laws can, of course, also be changed when a higher level is reached and there is an advantage, and when a higher level is reached in society to protect that level and to protect certain laws. Of course, the laws when they are passed have to be implemented. We are witnesses that our laws are not being implemented very well. For example, how will you manage to control or force the tycoons, which are the real masters of Serbia, such as Mr. Miskovic, to remove one clause from the contract when they establish a working relationship with a person, especially a woman, and that clause says that in the next three years it must not remain in a different state? Especially in Serbia, which is under the white plague. How do you intend to get him to enforce this law? So those laws we have are very difficult to implement, and those we have, we're making some processes out of them, instead of supporting them by having threatened penalties and implementing them. Of course, we think that this is just another law where Eurofanatics are advertised, because with their inadequacy and inaction to enforce certain laws, they're actually only dealing with one demagogue and using such laws to self-reclaminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32822	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Both the Government and the Committee on Gender Equality accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a member who is entitled to discrimination. Sometimes the simplicity of some form in principle, the simplicity of some form or some sentence actually shows and defines its full meaning. Personally, I do not think that the Government has found an adequate solution in this article, or adequate form for this term – discrimination. In that sense, we wanted to simplify this amendment, this attitude and this sentence. You have suggested something that sounds like this: 'Discrimination based on sex is every unwarranted, direct or indirect distinction, exclusion or restriction of the face, as well as assistance in discriminatory treatment and giving the championship'. It kind of looked like we were in one breath and in one booze horny. In our sentence, or our proposal, we wanted to simplify this and we suggested that it be: "Discrimination based on gender is any unjust discrimination of the face only because it is male or female." Perhaps this could have been defined in a better way, but in any case, we felt that an appropriate solution was more appropriate than what was proposed in the law. On the other hand, if you really wanted to develop this in detail, then you could have called on one of the drafts of the earlier law, which he even more complexly explained and further in that analysis he went away, touched something that was not in this article, that is, in this position of the fourth member. Of course, the government has explained this hoot – it is not accepted that it does not contribute to the improvement of the text. We, using the time of the authorised representative, tried to point out to the legislator that the law was not well worked out. It seemed to us that the Government and the legislator of this law would be given a chance for this correctional exam in the process of debate, i.e. their decision to take a position in relation to the amendments made by both representatives and the SRS and other parties. About a hundred or over a hundred amendments came to the bill. It seems to me that the government hasn't quite spread out the fact that it's accepted only a dozen amendments. Of course, I'm not talking here about the government's attitude towards amendments to the SRS, this is a general view of amendments that have come from both the SRS and all the parties that have shown participation in all of this and that they participate in all of this. It doesn't seem to show a relationship to the parties. I think we have shown and demonstrated once again that we are not mature enough to deal with this matter in a complete, comprehensive and adequate way. Of course, there's still a chance that some things can be fixed. There is another decent number of amendments that came from different parties that you could objectively accept. We hope that in the process of debate we will be argued, so that we can convince you to accept them further, so that this will get a complete form. I will return for a moment to discuss this little before the amendment, which Miss Natasa Jovanovic spoke of. You see, it says here that public authorities run an active policy. Look, according to the Constitution of the Constitution that you refused the amendment, you put the government in charge of politics, and then the public authorities lead and implement politics. The constitution clearly defines that the government is running politics, and all those under the government there are obliged to implement it. So it also made sense in this article what we suggested, I guess it makes sense in this, of course. The government's position is like this, I hope that we will succeed in further discussion to convince the power of the arguments to accept some more amendments, because as Miss Jovanovic said earlier, it was indeed our intention to make a serious contribution to the adoption of this law, to make it adequate through her normative part. Now we'll see what the government's readiness is to talk to us in this context, and to recognize the talker in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32824	Two minutes and 45 seconds were used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32825	And my amendment also refers to this point 2. Col. Stevanovic read, to call, your definition of the bill, what discrimination is or what is considered discrimination. If two parliamentary groups have come to the same conclusion, that this is a very incomprehensible position, that this is all a very long sentence, and when you get to the end you don't even know what it says and what is actually considered discrimination. The colleagues from the radical party have offered you a simpler solution, we also have a much simpler and more understandable solution, so you are practically now in a position to choose between two good formulations or to accept both, so that this attitude is understood. Our proposal is: "Discrimination is considered if the person requested or intended to seek legal protection from discrimination is treated worse, or has offered or intends to offer evidence of discriminatory treatment." You have to admit that this proposal and this formulation are much more understandable. How else can I convince you? For example, discrimination here as defined in this bill of yours, for example, is not a definition of what is considered discrimination under the recently adopted Anti-discrimination Act. Then, let's say, you don't have such a provision in Article 1 of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women that Serbia has signed, and it is, as I say, under the obligation to respect that convention. I must say, the explanation of why you rejected this amendment has made me rather confused. You say - the amendment is not accepted, it is precisely the criterion of treating another one of the most important factors on which discrimination is determined in this case. I don't see from this amendment that we suggested not to see that criterion. If you think that the words "behaved worse" and that others are not listed here, I think you can also mean that they are others. So that means, either they're employees or they're other secretaries, say, or secretaries. So that's where it can be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32826	Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 in Section 2, and I really expect you to react after reason by accepting the amendment, because the amendment is not only well-intentioned, but also linguistically professional and therefore submitted. We have no intention of plowing with the legislator on the intention of this law, but keep an eye on Article 4, you through three attitudes explain discrimination. Article 1 in our view was not particularly controversial, since some colleagues have already put amendments that can stand, can be accepted, but this is a specific or defined position one is not controversial. In point 2, you say this - discrimination is considered, and if the person is being treated unfairly worse than it is being treated, or it would be treated with another, exclusively, or mainly what it asked for, or intends to seek legal protection from discrimination, or offered or intended to offer evidence of discriminatory treatment. We asked the amendment to syntagma - or it would be left out. Why? Because this is a verb form called potential in grammar, and it means possibility. He means something that is possible, but it's not proven to happen. You're talking about law enforcement being sanctioned by someone who's supposed to act somehow. The law can only be applied when an act occurs when something can be proven when something is done. Look at this view, if you left out this syntagma, it would get full legal weight - discrimination is considered, although the person is unfairly treated worse than it is treated the other. It's the only way you can apply this as a law. It's no different. By introducing this syntagma into potential, as a verb form, you put this attitude outside the law. He becomes a form of some declaration, but not a legal position, the attitude of a member of the law. By the way, he's devising this member. I ask you, indeed, to look at that possibility, because it is exclusively a language intention to prepare this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32828	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32829	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32830	I find that the minister has accepted the amendment and will be declared to the National Assembly in the voting day, as well as on other amendments. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32831	We are still on Article 4 concerning discrimination and I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will also have the understanding of these amendments to the SRS. This amendment refers to Article 4(3), where after the word "unjust" we added the words "and unnecessary". The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment with the following explanation. It says - the above-mentioned amendment does not improve the text of the bill, because distinction, exclusion and restriction in conduct is always unwarranted. This is not an explanation, this is the text of the 4th term, item 3, and we don't mind, we agree with that, but this second part, it goes further in the explanation -- on the contrary, if it were unnecessary, there would be no discrimination. We believe that this is not true, and as an example, I will give you an example of discrimination in the form of systemic violence. Some groups live with the knowledge that they must occasionally experience unprovoked attacks on a person or property, which have no motive. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, is violence justified, or is it necessary? That is why we believe that you should have accepted our amendment, because this one word is improving this member of the law and this way discrimination is more precisely defined. The lack of this law is the need for this bill to be in line with the existing law, and in particular the anti-discrimination law that we have adopted. Therefore, neither item 1, nor 2, or 3 are in line with the definition of discrimination contained in the proposal for a law on discrimination. The provision of this Article, paragraph 3, states that the draft law on gender equality is contrary to the already applicable law on discrimination. In view of the fact that the substance regulated by Article 4 is multidisciplinary and that it enters the law on equality, against discrimination, the legal norms must not be harmonised, they must not be contrary to, in order to ensure legal continuity and legal certainty, which is not the case with this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32832	Used from the time of the parliamentary group is 55 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32833	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment in Article 4. where we foresee in point 1) of point 3 of the amendment. Instead of standing - the measure taken is not justified by the legitimate or illegal objective of standing - the measure taken is not in accordance with the law. When the law is written, it has to be such that it does not create misunderstandings, but to be perfectly clear. Looking at and reading the law, we've seen that this concept is a legitimate goal, it's not here in the law, in terms of terms. Perhaps the minister can explain to us what is the legitimate objective? I don't think that's accurate. Who determines what is legitimate and what is not legitimate? We think it's too wide-ranging and should accept this amendment that is far more precise and far more precise determines this point 1, and thus improves the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32834	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32835	You see, when you don't have a precise definition, then we have problems. It says this - that under unwarranted distinction, exclusion, restriction and action or other measures taken, in the sense of this law is particularly considered - if the measure taken is not justified by the legitimate or legitimate objective. Of course, there is 2 - there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objectives that are being taken. You see, since this is about any act of any state authority, I'm going to give you a classic example, for every understanding. For example, the aim of the MUP’s conduct is to make sure that it is done. Police within the framework of the MUP when bringing in a person suspected of committing criminal offences is the detention of those persons of justice, i.e. the possibility of taking legal action against them in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code, or the Code of Criminal Procedure, and, finally, in accordance with the social legitimate objective of punishing those who have committed a criminal offence. Here we have introduced both concepts - the legitimate goal and the legitimate goal. But what about the procedure in between? You know? It is not every procedure, it is not every act of a state body that has a legitimate objective, at the same time legally. The whole idea here is that we have to protect people from discrimination, by warning the state authorities, that they're always dealing with the law, not just with a legitimate goal. It's possible to intervene in several ways here. Either accept our amendment that simply says that the measure taken is not legal, or that at least they are separated in this sentence -- justifiable, legitimate and legitimate objective, in relation to legal action, or that both things are simply put in place. The ministry could have intervened and had some intervention within the amendment itself. You could've gone further if this amendment wasn't enough for you. In other words, what you wrote is simply not drinking water, because it creates an impression, I repeat once again, that the state authorities in the process, I have cited the police as a drastic example, and I can handle a legitimate and legitimate goal, that they are potentially acting illegally. It's not a matter of default. We can't say that. If that's what we mean, then what's the point of protecting this member, that it's an object of protection against discrimination? It's a key problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32836	Two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32837	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 concerning specific measures to achieve gender equality. In Article 7 after saying, "the possibility of sex" the point is replaced by a comma and the words "as well as the adoption of specific measures to strengthen the disciplined groups and to improve their position". You haven't adopted this amendment either, you haven't heard, so I hope I'll try to explain this amendment to you and maybe you'll adopt it. I'd like to comment on this argument a little bit. In your explanation, you wrote: "Although a supplement has been proposed in the spirit of the bill's proposal, the Employment and Insurance Act for the case of unemployment, it is prescribed that, on the proposal of the Ministry of Employment Affairs, it brings an active employment policy programme, with positive measures in the employment of less-represented gender-women. Since this proposal regulates the area of equality between women and men, this would be unfounded by the introduction of discriminated groups." Achieving gender equality must not be a matter of political will, but must be an obligation for every authority. The SRS believes that in order to ensure equality between women and men it is necessary to bring about specific measures and strengthen the disciplined groups that are socially at risk, and the government has stated in an explanation that the introduction of discriminatory groups would be unfounded. The Anti- Discrimination Act referred to discriminatory groups, but this law relies on many other laws in its members, for example. The law against domestic violence, the Law on Gender Equality, the Criminal Code. Why should the Law on Gender Equality not be about discriminatory groups? You've also stated in your argument that they're less represented than half of a woman. That's not true. It all depends on what jobs and what environments. The amendment protects the most vulnerable categories, such as the protection of single mothers and fathers, the protection of persons with disabilities, with respect to the specific needs of women and men, the protection of women and men in middle age, especially those who have lost their jobs, the protection and improvement of the situation of women and men in rural areas and to improve the position of women refugees and displaced persons. I believe that the adoption and adoption of specific measures is necessary as aid and empowerment of the discriminated groups and that, apart from the Law against Discrimination and the Employment Act, it can also stand in the Law on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32838	A minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Vesna Marjanović. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32839	On the case of this amendment, hypocrisy is seen in the Strategy of Gender Equality. Can someone from the government explain to me the difference between Mrs Vesna Marjanovic's amendments and my amendment, which are practically identical, have the same goal. Assuming we're even half-and-a-half-breeds, this is political discrimination. How is it possible for two amendments to the exact same content to be treated in such a way that the amendment of a letter belonging to the government is adopted and the amendment of the MPs from the opposition is not adopted, if they are, in practice, identical? That's just a good question. The fact is that these days we have had the opportunity to see how this strategy of gender equality and development of equal opportunities is being implemented. Namely, in the political-conflict situation that took place here the other day, two people who are evenly united by name - Gordana, meaning Gordana Comic, vice president and current chairman and Gordana Pop-Lazic, did not come into an unequal situation because they belong to a different sex, but because they have different political options. There was also one object of female gender - shoe - and the thing is so done. In fact, you're using the story of gender equality to track the EU and to say that you have a strategy to develop equal opportunities, and you're not giving us equal opportunities when our political commitment is not in line with what you're propagating. Mr. Ljajic, I have asked you in due time on what basis the Birth Equality Directorate, which exists with us, is why is the daughter of Honorable Professor Dragoljub Micunović? It's really not amazing that, besides a mathematician and a person who ended up in America and philosophy, as far as I know, there was no one who would have the same qualifications, who belonged to a female and gender, and did a very good job. By all accounts, and especially by what we have seen in the previous days, you treat gender equality this way: Metohija, Serbia, Vojvodina and Raška, that is all female, so all will be equal as the state and the state is female. Only the question remains how you put Kosovo in there, but that is probably because Kosovo is middle-born, it is understood that the child usually goes with the mother. So I purposely want to bring to absurdity your good intentions leading to one hell of a deal with political insolents, independent of half. So none of us, especially in the NS, who only exceeds that 30% of women's quota, because from our parliamentary group, which has nine members, here we are 33% and we're usually always present, we clearly express our beliefs. It's a good thing there's so many of us. It is also a fact that we will never have equal treatment with the MPs of the yellow axle, as you can see, let's say, in the case of this amendment, because we are not responding to that one-mindedness. I think it's good, because of women in Serbia who make up 52% of the electoral body, to set things up another way. There will be more amendments to which I will speak, where I intervened. You have here at the level of the recommendation that it is necessary to meet the requirement of equal representation of genders and quotas of 30%, so that employers have a recommendation to respect the legal obligation regarding these quotas. However, this is one recommendation, a declaratively expressed attitude that will in practice mean nothing. I reacted to the amendments by, in fact, changing and replacing the words "he owes" everywhere in the bill. Do you really think that in Serbia, where more women graduate from higher schools, colleges, there are more women of science doctors, there is not enough qualified staff for many jobs, and that these women who are both intelligent and willing to assess who really takes care of them will be satisfied with what you say - we have just influenced employers, public authorities to employ around 30% of women. In practice, this will not happen unless these women have influential dads, so they find themselves in some sort of different agencies or projects, which are normally well paid. One more thing that matters, I don't know if you've studied this problem, but the representation of a woman in the media is far less than the representation of men. Women are represented in the media by this percentage never exceeding 15%. Since you've already made this new Public Information Act, you've also made some sort of quota for women to appear in the media. It is desirable that women appear, in particular, as it says - do not exceed that 15% quota in ordinary situations, but in situations where elections are held, or when women's day is marked, March 8th, that percentage is slightly higher. The media, of course, likes women who are celebrities, the masquerade of sportsmen, and research shows that women are the most present in the fields of culture, black chronicles and entertainment. Of course, in the black chronicle, women are present as victims of violence. There are also them in politics, economics, health care and education, but they have been treated before as what might be called "the accompanying intelligence", rather than people who are independent in making political decisions. With all due respect and the presidents of this assembly, and the vice president, who currently holds the presidency, it was also noticeable in their case, where many decisions that they might not make personally and professionally were changed depending on the decisions of a man on Andric's wedding. About the other amendments, later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32840	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 10th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32841	In advance, let me tell you, if I go over those two minutes as far as I'm destined for the amendment, I'm using the time of an authorised representative. We felt that Article 10(2), which reads: “The termins marked in this law as positions, professions, or occupations, are expressed in the grammatical male race, include the natural male and female gender of the person to whom they apply. ” We think it's completely unnecessary in one law and we suggest we delete it. Why do we find that unnecessary? We have recently noticed that whenever a bill of law is found before us, we have a similar attitude that always says that this law applies to both men and women. I find this completely unnecessary, because it is perfectly logical that the laws are written for citizens of any country, in this case our laws, to the citizens of Serbia, and that they refer to both men and women, who are natural citizens. That I'm right, it confirms the last Statute of the Vojvodina, which we had here, which says at one point that it's a state of citizens and citizens, and then it's further under the citizens, which is completely normal and natural. We have plural and then it's perfectly normal that they're citizens and it's not just women, it's just men. Every law applies to both men and women. Now, what you have answered – the amendment is not accepted, the names of the profession and the titles of women are not yet normable, and when will you not tell us? This is what – Gekna has not yet died, and all languages of advanced social environments are affected by the process and demands of the European Community for a woman to be visible in acts and laws. I don't know what languages these are, and I'd like you to tell me what the languages of advanced societies are, and are we an unsupervised society? I can only call myself, say, in a new Croatian language, which we must all confess here, whether we are men or women, whether we are members of the opposition or the ruling party, sounds ridiculous and obnoxious. I really don't want to, I don't belong to language cleaners, so it looks like someone would like to introduce me, but I don't want a Serbian language that's extremely high-quality and extremely rich language to be reduced to something we laughed at the other day when we talked about what's being said in the new Croatian sheep and the like. It seems to me, to be serious, we need to be serious, there's a law that's very important to us. This is a problem that every civilized society has to solve. It's a policy of equal opportunities and gender equality. Let's not pretend that the peak of gender equality is a language, which you say is a politically correct language. This is neither the problem of equality nor the key problem of gender equality. Let's look a little bit wider now, and let's say what the position of women on the labour market is. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about in principle, there's no need to spread that story. Is her problem going to be smaller if we say she's, like, an unemployed psychologist? Of course not. Her problem is quite something else, so I don't think there's any need to put these things into laws, because they sound funny and sound like one supplement that's artificial to a law that's perfectly natural and everything else. We think we should take care of it, because we write laws for Serbia, we don't write them for another society, we keep calling for what it looks like elsewhere. What bothers us is that the standard we want to reach – to reach, to be, as you say, a legitimate goal and leave the language alone? Let's not talk, imagine when you tell me like this - women's titles are not yet normable. Are you referring to a dictionary recently presented? We don't know what we're gonna say about that. When is he going to be normal? Then we'll change the law when it's back to normal. If he's not normized, if he's not accepted, then what are we gonna do? Don't put serious problems on something that's going to be criticized this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32842	Two minutes and 20 seconds used by a time-authorized representative. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32843	Article 11 refers to equal opportunities in the field of employment, social and health policies. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to add the words ''to remove the differences between the normative and the real position of women and men' in Article 11. The amendment is not accepted by reason that language does not contribute to the accuracy of the norm. Our goal was to fundamentally improve the bill, and this, as far as language standards are concerned, I'd like someone to explain it to me. The proposed amendment sets out a policy of equal opportunities more clearly, with the aim of eradicating the economic inequality of women and men. The precondition for economic development is social stability, which is based on equal opportunities policy, solidarity, social inclusion and social justice. Today, during the economic crisis, there are over 700,000 unemployed in Serbia. When women and men are daily threatened to lose their jobs due to wrong privatisation, the SRS believes that the overall development of society requires adequate population development and halting certain unfavourable trends, such as negative population growth and daily layoffs. It is not enough just to set equal opportunities for policies and laws in order to really provide equal opportunities, that principle must be taken into account in every part of human resources management, so we believe that you should have accepted our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32844	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Dragan Colic, Saša Maksimovic, Zoran Antic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32845	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I will only comment briefly now. Since we as Parliament Club Forward Serbia – SNS intervened in this Article 13, where we felt that the number of 500 employees is too large in these economic conditions, especially since we believe that small and medium-sized enterprises represent the future of our economy development, that this number is smaller and we have proposed an amendment to be 100. Not to read the explanation, it's clear, the amendment has been rejected. I am saying and I wanted to comment that it is good that this number of 500 employees has been reduced to 50, so, in fact, in addition to my amendment, and other parliamentary groups have given amendments to this number, but you have already said in principle that the amendments have been accepted and that the number of employees is 50, so I wanted to comment that this is a good thing that has been adopted, precisely for the reasons of this equality and the law that we are making today and who we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32846	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Stojanka Petkovic and Jelena Travar-Miljević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Elvira Kovac and together Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted the amendment. The National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32847	Article 13 speaks of the obligations of employers, the employer's obligation to draw up a plan of measures to remove or mitigate the unbalanced representation of sex is prescribed, that the report also submits this. You have received from several parliamentary groups practically the same amendment and it is good that you adopted this amendment. When we received this bill, I simply thought that you had an error in printing or that you had added another zero by mistake, because the proposal says that an employer who has a working relationship of more than 500 employees for an indefinite period of time is obliged to adopt a plan for removing or easing measures. So there are very few businesses in Serbia that have more than 500 employees. I think it's public enterprises at this point, although I know that this member applies to them and that they have to fulfill that obligation. As a colleague said, Serbia's future, when it comes to the economy, is in small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not just the future, it's the present. So, it's mostly enterprises that are successful – small and medium-sized. As far as I know, I think the medium-sized company is also between 50 and 100, so it's very good that you accepted the amendment of the MPs and corrected this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32848	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32849	I also want to support the fact that this amendment has been adopted. I have submitted an amendment that has put a higher limit, afraid it will be too demanding, so to speak, if the number is even lower, however, I fully support this lower number and support what the Ministry has solved, or the government has decided to adopt this number. I was also guided by the fact that in my area, for example, there are very few employers who have over 500 employees, I can say with certainty that they are not there, and that, by the way, the situation is similar in many other local governments, or parts of Serbia, especially in those poor ones, so that they could not practically be implemented in the event that the number remained the same as the law provided. I just have to say, although I've missed saying it before, that I think it's not just necessary to adopt the plan, but that it's also necessary to implement it, so I still don't understand why my amendment, which has predicted and implemented the plan, is not accepted. You tell someone that they need to adopt a plan, I think it's perfectly logical that they should and should carry it out, because even later they don't predict it, but we'll talk about it later, when a member who defines sanctions is at the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32850	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32851	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, we support this amendment, because this law deals only with issues most directly related to the achievement of equality in the field of employment. Unfortunately, they are not governed by the Labour Act. The PUPS suggests that the alignment of this should be carried out as soon as possible. The PUPS welcomes the introduction of documentation and its keeping on the full structure of employees, and what the government has accepted the amendment of MPs, so that employers with a working relationship of more than 500 employees are reduced to 50. Why do we support it? Now de facto companies with fewer workers are not excluded, and as it is known, in the Republic of Serbia, most of the companies belong to this group. Thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32852	Since the time of the authorised representative, one minute has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Ministers, I may have a moral obligation to defend this law, since I am a less represented sex in my family, two to one, for these reasons I am pleased to defend law and women, and as I said, men too. In fact, the fact is that we will all agree in this assembly that such a law is necessary for Serbia and that, if it had been fortunate, it could have been passed much earlier, had there not been an emergency parliamentary election. It falls into one set of anti-discrimination laws. However, what the lawyers say, that certain legal norms are not well formulated, are not legal, so in some members we have the formulas: "it would be good", "we should try", "it's understood". We've removed something from the amendments, something you've accepted, Mr. Minister, and that's good, that's how we've legally regulated and laid down this law. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 13, where we have asked you to delete the position of the 3rd member, who says - the measure plan and the report in Section 1 and 2 of this member of the employer is required to deliver to the ministry responsible for gender equality activities. We wanted this way to relieve employers' formalities. If the employer is in charge of providing personal income, funds, to secure the market and to place certain goods on that market, then he should not be engaged in these formalities. These formalities need to be dealt with by labour inspection. For these reasons, since the labour inspection has great competences, when it comes to anti-discriminatory laws, since the inspection of work here on this member does not work very well, in that sense we wanted to suggest that you should accept this amendment, that you should give certain inspections of work, and in case an employer who employs more than 500 workers does not meet that obligation, then it should certainly be punished. Thank you. Otherwise, I wanted to say, to suggest to Mrs Plassic, I do not want to challenge the replica, "Health" Leskovac is a current employer who employs 720 workers, however, with a tendency to reduce the number of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Bozidar Delic, Saša Maksimovic, Zoran Antic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32855	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 and have proposed to amend this member. During the debate, we have already stated in principle the position of the parliamentary club Forward Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, when it comes to gender equality law, but I will now repeat it. We consider it necessary to pass laws in this area, but not like this law as you have suggested, which has a certain number of essential shortcomings and which, unless you accept certain amendments, will remain just a dead letter on paper. Many members, such as Article 14, do not recognize the address of the case, which can lead to the avoidance of the obligation, in this case by public authorities. We believe that public authorities should ensure that the less represented half of the 30% of each organisation unit in the management and management and control bodies are represented, rather than seeking to provide them. Many members mention the non-binding wording "need to strive" rather than "indemnity". There is a very large difference between effort and obligation, or duty, when it comes to fulfilling the provisions of the law. This general language formulation leaves the will of those subject to the law to act in accordance with the law or to be passive in the implementation of this law. We have proposed a more precise solution to the amendment, and we believe that it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32856	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32857	Since this article of the law has the most amendments which are, more or less, the same fundamentals and fundamental objections concern this declarative norm, we have come to a compromise solution on the Committee which could reconcile all these amendments, and to improve the quality of the law, above all, in terms of one binding norm from that contained in Article 14. Therefore, Article 14 of the Law would now read: "If gender representation in each organisational unit, in the management and management and control bodies is less than 30%, public authorities are obliged to apply affirmative measures, in accordance with the Law on State Officials and the Law on State Administration". We believe this formulation will satisfy all those who have tabled an amendment to this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32858	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14, Natasa Micic, a national MP, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Gender Equality submitted an amendment to Article 14. It is an amendment on which Minister Rasim Ljajic gave his explanation as an amendment that synthesises numerous amendments to Article 14. The 14th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32859	I also proposed on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 14 relating to the equal availability of sexes and positions. The amendment reads -- in Article 14 of the word "needs to try to provide" is replaced by the words "they are obliged to provide". The SRS believes that public authorities commit themselves to essentially working to improve gender equality by applying the law, while the proposing flexible attitude leaves room for the irresponsibility of non-responsibility of gender equality principles. What is unacceptable in this law, and what can be the subject of different interpretations, and thus the subject of abuse and manipulation, is that the norms regulated by human rights are inaccurate with unclearly established standards. Mr. Secretary answered. I wanted to ask him what "he can depend" means or "he needs to try" and so on. He responded in the form of an amendment to the Committee on Gender Equality. The SRS considers such provisions as non-binding to be prone to various manipulations and abuses. However, what is characteristic, such non-binding provisions are not only in Article 14, but they are also in Articles 21 and 32, as far as I have reviewed this law, so I ask the Minister to take these members into account and to consider. The government's argument that this amendment is not accepted, for example in Article 14 and Article 21, is in complete contradiction, in contrast, although the proposed amendments are similar, i.e. the words "need to try" are replaced by the words "are obliged to provide". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32860	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32861	I fully agree with my colleague Gordana Paunovic, because here is the problem with both Article 14 and Article 19, and later in Article 21 and Article 32. Indeed, in practice, respecting the idea of a balanced quota representation of these 30% is important that public authorities have a legal obligation to respect this quota rather than to leave a declaration of respect for this obligation. What you asked, colleague Paunovic, how to understand this "needs to try", as far as I'm concerned, it seems to me like that honorable Tito's pioneer word, we'll hire 30% of the women, and what happens in practice, that's another story. However, the words "are due" point to the necessity of respect for the law, which you are not quite inclined to, but I believe it should be, with the possibility of imposing legal sanctions when there was a lack of respect for the quota provision. In that sense, even if they did not purposely interpret, these words "need to strive" can only have the character of an appeal, a declaration or some declaration, not a fundamental legal obligation. We are all aware of the situation currently in Serbia's citizens, but the fact is that the unemployment rate of women is currently double the male unemployment rate, that 44% of the employees are women, among the unemployed, 53% of women, the difference between salaries between women and men is 16%. Since I found out that there is a 15% difference in the EU, then it fits in with that story, "Europe has no alternative". We enter the EU by making a difference between women and men in salaries of 16% in favour of men. Not only are men 16% higher salaries, but they are paid by women, but they are also opportunities for self-employment women, especially because they have no property to a significant extent and only 30% of the property is held as property of women, they have no ability to get some credit or start an independent job. Data also show that for family reasons 80% of women leave work for family reasons. Also, after the divorce, among those who trust children with single parental custody, 80% is a woman. So, in 80% of the cases after the divorce, women take care of children. I've recently heard a comment from some of our own, you might say, mediocre tycoons, who claim to be an ideal profile for women's employment up to 35 years old and divorced with one child who, of course, supports it, because at all costs, she'll want to keep that job, and no matter how underpaid she is, she won't think of losing her job. I've tried so much to make the amendments I've made to this article, and I'm going to talk about other members, ease the situation and simply make some kind of legal obligation for employers to respect what is some kind of appeal and your declarative commitment to gender equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32862	One minute and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Comic submitted their national MPs to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32863	Our intervention is almost identical to the intervention held by colleagues from other parliamentary groups, which suggests that we were truly unique, that all parliamentary groups were unique in the need to introduce a commitment rather than a declarative recommendation in a law that is really essential for improving women's position in Serbia. We suggested that words - they should try to change words - are mandatory. We felt that it was necessary for public authorities to be obliged to employ, provide for a less represented half of the 30% in each organisational unit, in the management posts and in the management and control bodies. The answer we received from the government says that this would be contrary to the principle of professionalisation, which implies that the less represented sex, in this case, women, because they are most often less represented sex at management sites, are not professional enough. This is directly contrary to all the research that says that women are absolutely sufficiently dressed and professional enough in all the activities they do. I don't think professionalism would be compromised by making a commitment. On the contrary, in order to achieve what is the objective of this law, at least 30%. I'm convinced there are more well-trained and professional women, but at least 30%. It's really a minimum that I think should be prescribed as an obligation, so that we can achieve something like that. I'm not going to repeat all the information that the colleagues have been talking about, but the fact is that women's representation in the leading positions is absolutely inadmissible and I think public authorities should be the first to demonstrate the will of the state to address this issue this time by this law and solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32864	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32865	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 14, to which the DSS has submitted the amendment, reads this: Public authorities should seek to ensure that the less represented half of the 30% in their organisational unit, in the management posts and in the management and control bodies are represented. All right, we absolutely absorbed this -- they should try. I don't think there's any more room to talk on that subject, but take a deep breath now, because there's going to be a shock. Our amendment predicts that this percentage is not 30%, but 50%. Why is this a shock now? Because with careful reading of this law, we felt that the promoter doesn't want to change anything in society, that this law is actually a nice cream on the cake, it sounds nice and very nice, but essentially nothing will change, not even in a language sense, because you're just going to standardize the names. First, if we're going to start from what's even, 50 to 50 is equal. Secondly, women are represented in society with 52%. Next, what we wanted to say, and what we suspected, you said in response. Your answer is this - the amendment is not accepted. The standard of 30 to 40% is a fact that makes it harder for developed EU societies to make the proposed percentage inappropriate to the conditions in which our society is currently in the field of gender equality. All that we wanted to hear, what we assumed, what we felt intuitively, and it's quite clear to us that nothing wants to change essentially, you said with this answer. Let me explain something to you, Minister, first of all, between 30% and 40% is a huge difference, especially for women who are really on the sidelines in today's society in Serbia. That's 10%. If you'd made a step of 1% and said 31%, we would have understood. It's a step from 30%. What's already been seen? Since 2004, when the government of Vojislav Kostunica passed the famous Law on the selection of MPs and the first 30% quota that was then a shock, that 30% is already some quota that society has accepted. This society is developing in democracy for the next five years. Today is the end of 2009. In relation to this period, five and a half years society has been developing a kind of democratic process, if we're going to call it a democratic process. I guess it's used to moving that trust into women as a working body, as a managing body, as anything else. Is that right? So you stay on it and you tell us that it's between 30% and 40% optimal for our society today and that we don't need to step up here, because society didn't accept that it is a democratic process and what the Constitution predicts, the development of a policy of equal opportunities and gender equality. The second part of your answer here, where you say you are calling for European developed societies again, is in direct contrast to what I just read to you when you answered me about how you're going to standardize language. You say you have an answer in the future. Names for women's professions and titles are not yet standardized. They will be standardized and we are now dealing with predicting how it will be, and here you're telling me -- it has reached a level in European countries. That's where we're gonna stop. So that hypocrisy between what you're telling us and what it says is something that hurts women's intelligence. It's all right to pass the law. I really think the law should be passed, but it must essentially make a change by 1%, by 0.5%, for any percentage that will shift the state of women in society. As you wrote to me, we deliberately went to those 50%, we are aware that 30% of what is said today, as is wrong in society and the like, clearly shows that between what the law wants, and that is the status quo, you have accepted some amendments and it is okay, those about mechanisms, the local community, it's all right, but the fact that you have not introduced them into the law shows the tendency to remain the status quo. Between what will be in a few years, we see a space for what is called hypocrisy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32866	Two minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32867	Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 15. The floor member shall read: In the case of public advertising of jobs and conditions for their performance and decision on the selection of persons seeking employment and for the purpose of establishing a working relationship and other form of employment, no gender difference shall be allowed unless there are justified reasons laid down in accordance with the law governing the work. We asked to delete this conditional sentence, or an exclusive sentence - unless there are justified reasons set out in the law governing work, and to place a half point behind the words, because we consider only this Article 15 to be fully useful in this law, acceptable and applicable. Why? First of all, the Labour Act doesn't discriminate against sex anywhere. There are no such members in the law, or at least I haven't seen them. You will have to direct me to this or refer this member to these members in the law to which an employer may be called. Secondly, it's inadmissible that something that is life is arranged, you're legally putting -- like that so-called. A hole in the law that many will later be able to abuse. We know that there are professions in life and life that men and women don't commit to, or choose very rarely. In that case, you have no right to discriminate against them and prevent them from getting to work. How it would work in a normal life. If some boys commit to enrolling in a medical school the obstetrician sister and finishing that course -- they have the right to work in hospitals later, as in the people known as "grandmothers". He has that right because they are professional and qualified and you have no right to discriminate against them and you do not give them the opportunity to commit to this profession, as you do not have the right to prohibit women from taking all categories of driving exams and, possibly, if a passenger carrier, say a famous bus house sets up a competition to receive 20 drivers of a particular category and between 20 registered candidates there are five women, two women who meet all conditions, health and conditions of qualification - there is no right to discriminate them, because they have the right to do so if they want to. Of course, only by the nature of the profession of business, the burden, the life experience, the legacy that we have more Serbia than the whole world, the whole of Europe -- women and men for some professions rarely, almost never or very rarely, but we have to respect it and in law cannot leave one of these opportunities to an employer, of any kind, that only on this basis says that one can discriminate. What we like to say in a joke -- women can do anything men with one advantage do in heels.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32868	One minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, as representative of the LDP, I have submitted three amendments to this bill. Two are about increasing women's participation in the decision-making process. So I submitted an amendment to Article 14 concerning equal availability of jobs and positions. Here I asked, as some other colleagues and colleagues here, to change the words "need to" by making a commitment that indeed women should participate with 30% in each organisational unit, in the management posts and bodies of governance and supervision. The second amendment also refers to the increased participation of women in decision-making bodies. Namely, I asked for a percentage of 30% of women's representation on boards and boards. None of these amendments, unfortunately, have been accepted. In particular, it was an important amendment to Article 52 in which I asked the Ministry of Labour and Employment, which is responsible for these issues, to submit at least once a year a report to the National Assembly. Is he accepted - he's not? The amendment was not accepted, the Committee amended the text, so it now reads, i.e. I received this principled, moral support, so the Committee submitted an amendment that reads - that once a year the government will submit a monitoring report and what it has done in a year. Of course, we're all aware here, and ultimately we have evidence -- here's the government's final account withdrawn yesterday. I have no real belief that the government will really deal with this, when the government is not ready to submit a final and financial report in a year. Then I really don't see any chance that she'll be ready to adopt such a report and forward it to the National Assembly. If you accepted it in a changed form, I think my proposal was better, because it was more realistic for the Ministry to file such a report. We could then have more impact and pressure on that ministry than we'd be able to do with this and this government. In fact, I have submitted all three amendments because I believe that the most important thing in this country is to improve the position of women, primarily their economic empowerment, and the other is to fight violence more effectively. I therefore look forward to the fact that an amendment has been adopted which provides that there is an institutional mechanism in local self-government to deal with this. As a result, the LDP considers that it is not only enough to be a law, because it can only be a framework, we can contribute to improving the position of women, among other things in two ways, by using these local mechanisms to influence that every local self-government, as far as possible, affects the creation of a fund for women's entrepreneurship, to encourage faster women's employment, because we know that women are harder to hire and easier to lose their jobs. It's also a problem of transition. Secondly, as regards a more effective fight against violence, we welcome these safe houses projects, but we believe that this issue must be resolved systematically. We also advocate that through local self-government there are protocols of co-operation between authorities, because there is now no coordination and therefore this issue is inefficiently resolved, between local self-government, the MUP, the Centre for Social Work, Home Health, Emergency Aid and Women's NGOs. Often we all know this statistical data here -- that every third woman is having physical violence, that every other woman is suffering psychological violence. I read one for me even astounding task in the 2008 Citizens' Protection Report -- that in Serbia, Mr. Minister, every week, on average, one woman was killed and in 92% of the cases by her partners. So, every year 52 women in this country have been killed, so what's the biggest, possible victims there are. Although this information is now, or even though we watch it all the time in the paper, it just sounded fragrant to me. Then I rewinded the film like that and some of my life experiences, so I saw that wasn't the case. Then I'd use this part of the debate, it's about the law, to pass it on, thinking that I'd make some contribution to raising awareness of this issue. Because the purpose of the law is to regulate behavior and to norm social relations, but the purpose of the law is, above all, to move borders. I don't think this law has done enough in that regard. Some boundaries are moved, but they're not all. So, regarding this data and some of my experience, I simply remembered that I had completed the elementary school in Užica with two girls Kovacevic, whose father killed his mother, and then he killed himself and grew up in a carefree children's home. I don't have to tell you how much they suffered later in life because they didn't have family support. Next, a school friend of mine from Užičko High School was murdered by a partner who was actually suffering from postpartum syndrome, which was a few years ago. I simply want concrete examples to draw attention that this is happening here next to us, that we know these people and that these victims can be more. I remembered, in the early 1990s, I was flying to Budva, there was only a Slovenian beach open, and I met a nice Belgrade family who had children my daughter, so we hung out during that summer. Last year, I saw in the paper that the son of that family killed his father in his sleep because he physically abused his wife and that young man and his sister. I wanted to really draw attention to how important this issue is and to point out once again that we have not paid enough attention, not the ministry, not the parliament, and thus neither the media on this issue, and that somehow I have already mentioned it, that I am sorry and that it is simply ironic that Mr. Secretary-General, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who has two parties, in no party no vice president is a woman, that none of the four MPs are women. It's simple, if you don't comply with these standards, and I said that these issues can only be solved by the participation of women, because they are the most interesting of these problems, and that will also affect that they are the most efficient and resolved. I say once again that I am sorry that my amendment to Article 52 has not been accepted, because, Mr. Minister, I really think it's more realistic that the Assembly is affecting one ministry, to submit a report once a year, than to make it a government. Anyway, I already said, the LDP will support this law because there are some good solutions and some moves, but I think it could have been a lot better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32870	It's been used for 10 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32871	I am sorry if there has been a misunderstanding because I think that your amendment to Article 52 has essentially been accepted, for the simple reason it clearly states here that the Ministry of Gender Equality will submit at least once a year a report on the state of protection and improvement of gender equality to the Government and the National Assembly's competent committee. Not directly to the Directorate for Gender Equality or the Ministry to submit reports to the Assembly before submitting this report to the Government, but I think the essence of this amendment is, in fact, this article is on the trail of the amendments you have proposed. Also, we have accepted the amendment of the Committee, which again corresponds to what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32872	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32873	Dr. Paja Momchilov submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, where he wanted not only to fix this member of the law, but to eradicate the discrimination that is present in our society, Mr. Minister, based on parenting and employment in this regard. A colleague of Stevanović, who is our authorised representative, will comment on our completely unacceptable response to the UN's 1992 UN General Assembly's position on the position of the UN Economic Council, which has set up a programme for action for the next 10 years and the final Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted in June of this year, for which we were also present at the meeting, members of the Serbian delegation, who is called – Fight Against Discrimination of Women in Employment and Jobs. In her name, she has no discrimination based on parenting, but is mentioned in three members. This is why – because not only are prejudices involved, as stated by those who have made a report from our Committee on Gender Equality in the Council of Europe, counting on the experience of all 47 members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but because these abuses are possible because of the lack of respect for the Constitution, and the Constitution says that the right to work is guaranteed for everyone, to work, to give birth, and to parenting and therefore women in most cases have a problem in progressing at work, which is why Dr Paja Momchilov wanted to correct the position of the 2nd proposed member, by demanding that after "parenthood" the words "coordination of family and professional relations" be added. These are indeed more than morbid examples she has drawn from her experience as a colleague, Micic, are just saying that there are such cases in every society. There's the other way around. I was reminded by my colleague Momir Markovic of a case we had today in the daily press, where violence was shown by a woman to her spouse, these are people in some late years, over 70 years old. These are really tragic things, but we can't look at individual cases, if you say -- we want to change that, we want healthy society, we want economic prosperity, we want democracy. It's all just a declarative pledge. In order to do so in practice, you have to curb the haughtiness and passion of all domestic tycoons, employers who have bought for a reason, and above all I mean Miroslav Miskovic, because the most common concepts that I and my colleagues from the SRS and colleagues have, which in written form, which in personal contact with them, is that he is most likely to act and violate the Labour Act and the Family Act, when it comes to parenting and firing women because they have become mothers or are about to do so or have an announcement. It is not just the case with us, the one adopted in June at the Council of Europe Resolution which says it appears in all countries does not exclude the possibility that all countries have a regulated legal area, including here in Article 16. The labour law and the Family Relations Act are strictly forbidden and there are some minimum sanctions and penalties for this, but please, who will oversee it? How will you from case to case solve this if you are not in Article 16. The law accepted it as a binding provision? You have understanding in one part of the intention of Dr. Paja Momchilov, but you say – there will be abuse. These abuses are already happening. Mr. Minister, would you explain to me, is it possible that this percentage of educated women who can't progress at work and in management, after all, in all segments of social life, just because they have small children or that they have parental obligations? As a man and a father, you know, as a bearer of that role in the family, as well as all other colleagues, isn't that a common obligation both for women and men, to coordinate their relations and to have a shared responsibility for the role in the family and for raising children? You see, employers in Serbia don't see it that way. It's not just prejudice, these sociological, cultural factors, something that's happening in the Balkans, so we've been pulling it back for centuries. No, that's not true at all, because they are not in their nature, according to their wives, according to their sisters, friends, however you want men in Serbia to be such Serbs, and everyone else living here, but they are such employers who are not sanctioned, who are living above women. You know, you have the case of the most employed women in the service sector, so those martyrs from the Belgrade departments, who we have repeatedly received as delegations, tell us that their labour rights have been misused. You have a case of women working in the textile industry and you have cases of the most young women employed in these independent shops or in chains held by Miroslav Miskovic under his control in the monopoly. As he joked in an aphorism of our latest magazine "Greater Serbia", counterpart Markovic says, "Yes, there is a battle between "Maxia", "Delte" and "Tempa". They are fighting for predominance in the market, in fact, all companies owned by the leading tycoon in Serbia, Miroslav Miskovic. They even went so far as to do research from country to country, even Serbia is not the worst in these surveys, but also many EU countries. They said, as they said, that's what I mentioned, she was a colleague of Stojacic's in the principle debate, they introduced a whole new term, investigating why this is happening, that because of the parenting of women can't progress, so they said there's a so-called. a glass ceiling, or as they said, introduced a new pattern of this behavior “vosing”. Under this law, you say – it is forbidden. According to the Labour Act forbidden, according to the Constitution, forbidden under the Family Law, but this woman who has all the qualifications to make progress in that workplace really comes across that, as they said, glass ceiling, because she sees up there that there is open space by all her qualifications, but she can't. It's just that there's a barrier that doesn't allow it. If you want us to have a healthy society, to increase the birth rate, to develop children in this country, who need both parents, here we talk about vulnerable women's rights, because the largest number of cases are women, but there are also men who are in the same situation, then you have to accept as a binding norm, because Dr. Paja Momchilov, and as a doctor, first of all, and as one, so many times I point out, which is in that parent chain and as a gynecologist, an obligator, and how responsible it is that the newborn comes into the world, and as the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, looked at it based on everything that we've considered on the Committee on Health and Family, that these are major cases of abuse. It'll be an abuse if you don't put this in law, because it needs to be imperative. If a woman or a family who decides to do so, they ask both men and women, in a coherent partner relationship, in a healthy family that we stand for, and that children have a safe future, if they really want to have joint incomes, that they can support those children, please, who is it in Serbia that, by breaking all these constitutional and legal norms, they can do so and that they do not allow that professional and parenting role that one woman or man has. So once again I appeal to you to accept, nothing will disrupt your concept, but it will help a lot, and it will still be binding, and each of these employers will know that they must not just play with parenting and the intention of women, or women and men to have their children and family.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32874	The used time of the parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 55 seconds. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32875	Mr. Minister, I would take the opportunity to try on behalf of the SRS to say that in this explanation, which you wrote in the government's opinion, we really cannot recognize the reasons why you reject this amendment. Look, you wrote – that you agree with the term that the applicants explain the reasons etc., but then we come up with something very interesting, for what is now proposed by the amendment you say – such broadly defined elements of the harmonisation of family and professional relations, at this point the development of our society is unacceptable and that in practice it could lead to abuse. If you can, and if you're in the mood, I'd like you to explain to us what it would be like at this point in this defined element to coordinate family and professional relations unacceptable to this degree of development of our society? See how government is when this law is defined and ready to be selective. These terms of harmonising family and professional relations are inappropriate to the degree of our social development, but the government is still ready to include stereotypes, and prejudices, and seemingly, and non-verbal, and direct and indirect distinctions, at the same stage of society's development in this normative part of the text. Now you are calling for international practice and some other acts and norms. Let's not call upon an explanation that you have rejected, for example, an amendment that applies to Article 31, that I do not remind you earlier, when we speak of this article, I will remind you of your argument. What you have all defined as arguments to reject this amendment, and in this amendment, you are reminding us and trying to show us that we are not at a level, an adequate level of social development, in order to be adequate, for those who will apply this law or to whom this law will apply, we can understand this and that there will be abuse. This is really unacceptable. If you really didn't want to accept this, I think you could have found a different way to refuse this amendment. This really isn't enough and it's not strong enough. We urge you once again to change your mind and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32876	The time used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is two minutes and 50 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32877	In Article 17, after the word "half", the words "in all stages of the working century" are added. Article 17 refers otherwise to equal earnings for the same work or work of equal value. We have proposed the amendment, because the privatisation and restructuring process of businesses and public services is the most laid off of women and men over 45 years of age. There are no other places for these people in other companies. So these people who become social cases after 30 years of work experience, many become homeless, and many get sick because they have neither social protection nor money to buy the most basic drugs. Mr. Minister, you're a doctor like me, and you're in the same age as me, so I guess for you, as well as for me, you'd be one of the greatest stresses, God forbid, let's die in the family, but you're also fired and aborted at work at this age, when we feel really and mentally and physically that we can give this society the most. Therefore, I think that this amendment should be considered better and given a chance to people who have given society a lot for 30 years, not to become homeless, and that's what's happening. I don't want to mention what Mrs. Micic said, but as president of the Committee on Gender Equality and as a neuropsychiatrist doctor, I have to say I advocate this age category that I think is one of the most discriminated categories. I say, stress is one factor that leads not only to cardiovascular disease, to various malignancies, but also to various physical diseases. We are witnessing not only killings that arise after some stressful situations in the family, but also witness various attempts at suicides that occur after losing our jobs. That is why we think this is humane, and that the amendment proposed by the SRS is adequate and that poverty and disease and other problems will be contained. I think you should consider this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32878	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS by Dr Paunović-Milosavljevic was certainly to be accepted, along with other amendments to the SRS, as the aim of submitting these amendments was to improve the text of the bill. In particular, this amendment, which Dr Paunović-Milovljevic has already spoken of, is justified, what is happening to our people during her working life. I will only briefly remind myself of the content of advertisements that, without any hesitation, employers publish and, among other things, the necessary qualifications, states that a man up to 40 years of age or a young girl of attractive appearance is needed. This bill is explained as anti-discriminatory, and the constitutional basis is contained in the provisions of Articles 15 and 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will now read Article 31(3). The Constitution, which says: "No discrimination, either directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age and physical disability." As we can see, there is also no discrimination on the basis of political or other convictions. We are all here to witness that there is discrimination in the National Assembly of the entire political party - the SRS and that by violating the rights of two MPs, mine and my colleague Elena Christmas-Talijan. I have spoken of it countless times in this congregation. This August 31st, the president of the National Assembly was handed over our resignations. Everything is ordered by the Constitution, by the law and by the Rules of Procedure, it is respected. However, our will shown by these resignations is not respected by the Administrative Committee. A new procedure applicable only to SRS MPs was invented when making a decision not to accept the resignations. With regard to the apparent discrimination made towards me and Elena Christmas-Talijan, a logical question is being raised - why did the chairman of the Administrative Board of Nenad Konstantinovic make the wrong decision? Is it possible that it isn't because we're both women, so our will doesn't matter either according to our political beliefs, so what the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure say doesn't matter? The only interest of the ruling majority is to protect the mandates that belonged to the SRS and which, if the Constitution and the law were respected in Serbia, would still belong to the SRS today, because we are the party that legally participated in the 2008 elections, with its SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj election list. In the morning part of the session, I've already talked about it, I don't want to repeat it now, but the fact is that the ruling majority in the National Assembly is trying to legalise what is not being legalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32880	Four minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of the 18th, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32881	As you said, we suggest adding a new member and doing so in this place, so it would be a new member of 18, or the numbers would change. The title above the article would read: "The value of home work" and says: "The unemployed person who is not health insurance on any other basis is entitled to health insurance on the basis of work in the house (domestic management, care for children and other family members, work on agricultural property, etc.) and the funds for these purposes are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia." My colleagues at the DSS really believe that this law is the one that would have to recognize the importance of home work, so I'm surprised you refused. I wish we were rich enough to be a country that could and could value home work and so that persons, whether they are women or men, would receive some sort of compensation for doing housework. I'm aware that's not possible at this point, I'm afraid it won't be possible for a long time, but then, if nothing, it's possible for these people to be provided with health insurance if they haven't acquired it on some other basis. In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, the promoter says it considers it to be a matter already governed by other system laws, and it is an unfounded normation of more legal protection professions in a specific case. This argument is not appropriate. Why? Because this whole law, as a whole and in individual members, could also be seen as multiple legal protection. You have some members from the field of work who are also normised or regulated, for example, by the Labour Act, without talking about the Constitution. And the Labour Act says that discrimination is forbidden, among other things and gender-based. If we look at Article 17 in your proposal, it speaks of the fact that everyone in the work process is guaranteed the same earnings or equality based on work. This is also normised and regulated by the Labour Act, so many members are, in fact, multiple protections. We in the parliamentary group don't think this law is necessary at all. This law is necessary. And how multiple protection is needed because very few things in society have changed, so I think that this amendment should become an integral part of the text, especially since social security is really regulated by different basics, but in case a person falls through that network of different laws or is in a situation where there is no social security, this law could be that last link, to say rescue for those people. I also don't suppose I've had the opportunity to run an analysis of how many people like that would be. I don't think it's a big number, and I don't think it would compromise the budget at all, or there might be some big funds in there right now. It would be good for this law to recognize the importance of homework, whether it's men or women. I don't think any other system law recognizes the importance of homework. This would be a little satisfaction for people who run the household, take care of children and old faces, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32882	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic, I must now address you, because the minister has come out, this member of the law is very important because he has been defined for the first time in our country's legislation in the qualified Penal Code since 2005: harassment, sexual harassment and sexual blackmail. He has two attitudes, and it is more appropriate for his counterpart Krasic to comply with the Criminal Code. As a lawyer, he intervened on behalf of the SRS, so in Article 18, point 1 of the word "acts employed by another employee", when it comes to this kind of harassment and blackmail, he replaced the words "acts of interlinked persons". There has been a lot of talk about it, and various examples have been presented both in this debate and in the assembly pay phone. There was an "afer" in this regard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, how to resolve how the state should get in the way of it. There can be no criminal provisions here for this crime in the sense that someone is punished for it. It's necessary to run, in Section 3 you've specified here, a record of that kind of harassment. Believe me, after all these years as I have had the opportunity to follow up on this as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, it is now our colleague, Dr Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, and based on all the reports there is no clear strategy of the state how this can be contained, nor is there any relevant report on how common this is, because employers do not react when something like this happens, as counterpart Krasic said more correctly - in the situation between related persons, and not in relation to employees. Please take this much more seriously. How can such harassment and violence against women be handled and who is it? It's men, and those who are employed in that workplace or something, and those who are in responsible functions, and they're not disturbed, when I have to use that term, because all of these international resolutions that have been made include that psychological factor. Why would anyone do that? Please, look, if there's any statistics, I don't know it, but it can be classified into black chronicles, maybe you have some records, I've never been able to get one before. We got it for some other countries, I'm calling again, but what to do, it's a double role, I'm a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the resolution was also adopted in June of violence against women. The rapporteur was a fellow socialist from Sweden, who had to define a new term in the context of violence in the workplace, domestic violence, women and children, and even this new term - violence, or crime of honor. Thank God, we haven't recorded such a thing in our midst, at least I don't remember backwards for decades, maybe these older colleagues that happened in some parts and parts of Serbia. In any case, it must be strengthened for every employee not to stand aside, especially when it comes to sexual harassment of women, that these men and these colleagues, above all employers, are much more motivated to help these victims get out of that situation. No one can do such a bad deed that is punishable under our country's Criminal Code to remove as a burden from a soul that can have a young woman or, regardless of women in which age or a man in another situation, that's why we put -- interlinked faces. Who is he who can do any penalty, which is a prison sentence, and these processes are very long, and these things are hard to prove, although it is prescribed by the Penal Code of our country. That is exactly the report of that mentioned colleague. My colleague Radeta and I were at that session of the Council of Europe's Equality Committee in Strasbourg in June, where colleagues and colleagues from other countries' parliamentary delegations also appeared, where they said that in their countries there was an orderly area, so to speak, by their criminal laws, but that victims very rarely decide to do so, because they are not encouraged and have no support from employers, from colleagues in the workplace, from members of the wider family, to enter into one such procedure because they are afraid of themselves. Even one indent of one point says - to encourage competent state authorities, to encourage the Member States of the Council of Europe to engage more in the process of proving the work done, so that those victims have protection from international courts. While we were following that, Radeta, a colleague, reacted in this presentation by one of the reporters in that resolution and said that it was possible to do so, but that in one country, if you have a situation to catch some false witnesses who would testify in the proceedings before so-called. The international court for the former Yugoslavia, i.e. the ad hoc tribunal in The Hague, turned out to be, you can see for yourself, that it was the most common inventions and lies that were burdened our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, where some of the psychopaths he had exposed in the process he had been going on for seven years before, who had been talking about these situations of abuse and harassment, and it turned out that it was not true and that they were lying, they were making it up. We're not saying that there are no individual cases, but the burden of responsibility should be borne individually. It's the same case you're in here. The employer can't be held accountable for what's going on in that collective. After all, both in conflict and in conflict situations, it is possible, because you have such an unhealthy environment where human relationships are so disruptive, so there is such a psychopath who thinks that only because he thinks he can blackmail or, as next, the first attitude of article 18 shows - is sexually harassing someone in his workplace. There are perfectly normal situations in which there is no such thing as rivalry or something, but in one environment it simply appears and is employed by one who is not normal and who has a problem for psychologists and neuropsychiatrics and who does something like that, and the employer does nothing, just keep it quiet. If I were to tell you that in the middle of which I live, in Kragujevac, there is a public secret that among those who are recognizable in our city, in Kragujevac, intellectuals, from the sphere and the judiciary and the lawyers, or are doctors or some other people in prominent functions, who do this violence in their family against their wives, not to name some of them, although it is a public secret for one such recognizable psychopath, who even wants to advance in one sphere, or in one branch of government in our country, then you can imagine how difficult it is for a "ordinary" woman, an employee, to prove that it happened in a workplace, in an environment where there is no protection or where there is lower education structures, or where she simply thinks it's a shame that she's talking about such things. If the whole world recognizes this as a problem, then I really ask you to do it in a broader way through sanctioning and employers who do not act according to the attitude of the 3rd member, show that you have a clear intention of curbing such phenomena and simply that in a civilized society, it must not happen or move towards it in the foreseeable future to be completely eradicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32884	Ten minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't think it's a good idea for the government not to accept the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS. We don't think it's a good idea to pass a law that won't last a change in its article 18. We think that this article 18, as you have defined it, has been defined only for the sake of order. He's pretty unspeakable. I will try to defend this amendment with arguments, to convince you to accept the amendment, because this really hangs in the air and in this legal or any other protection of employee discrimination you will not provide. Maybe a little superficially, in the outlines, but essentially, you won't provide employee protection, as defined in article 18, from harassment, or sexual harassment and sexual blackmail. What's this about? We tried to change Article 2 first of all. In our amendment, we added that after the word "employee" the point is added and the words "state authority responsible for the control of the application of the law". Afterwards, we predicted that new sections 3 and 4 would be added: “In the event that the employer does not provide timely effective protection to the employee, he has the right to terminate work. The employer shall not have the right to call an employee who terminates the work, for the reasons set out in the previous position, for disciplinary or any other responsibility. “ To say what I was about to say, I have to call again for your explanation. Here you are saying that the proposed solution, that the state authority responsible for the law enforcement is informed by the employer's employee, is not an acceptable solution and in practice it would not be effective. I don't know what the problem is that, in parallel with the employer, the competent inspection authorities are informed? It's very important what you wrote here in parentheses. Now I ask you, as representatives of the ministry, how will you protect employees if they are sexually abused by employers? Here you predict he's an employer and a physical person. Now I'm asking you, how did you define the 18th member, imagine a kiosk that has its own boss and owner, a private person, who abuses his own employee, who will she complain to? If you've already built mechanisms to protect employees from sexual abuse or harassment, how will we protect them from the employer? Now you go on and say – you know, there can be abuse here with this interruption of work. What could be abuse? If you accept the fact that the inspection bodies are informed and that they react in good time, that they are acting on this problem in good time, they will determine whether or not someone has misused this or not. If he has misused it, certainly both the disciplinary procedure and any other case against the employee will be justified, but if there is indeed sexual harassment, he will find out what to do and then those mechanisms that the law provides will have a meaning. I don't know what that means – are they predicting other legal acts, allowing employees to defend themselves against the employer? That's what happened before. I'll remind you, you've been involved in drawing up each other's drafts of this law. It seems to me that this attitude I suggested by this amendment was being defended at the time. You may not have defended it, but in that bill, something similar was proposed. You didn't have anything against this at the time. But now for both you and the government, it's unacceptable. Now one objective question is asked – am I right or are you representing the Government? Am I right when I say that a large number of norms of this law have been defined in one wrong and casual way? It's not good and we don't like it because of that fact, but it gives us the right, the arguments, that this law won't be able to apply in a practical way. If you want to give effects in the field of gender equality affirmation, then you have to make it clear and explicit in the law to put it. I ask you again, of course, the minister is not here to tell me – how will employees be protected from their employers? If you've predicted this member or if you're referring to other laws, then you shouldn't have written this here at all. The amendment is meaningful, rational, and there is no reason to suspect that it will lead to any abuse and we believe that the government should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32886	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no minister, and if we welcome him too, representatives of the Government, I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here right now, perhaps he would accept this amendment rationally. With one correct explanation, I think there's a possibility that this amendment can be accepted. Namely, we have tabled an amendment to Article 18, which speaks of harassing sexual and sexual blackmail, because we have asked to delete Article 2. In principle, many legislators even spoke of certain examples, in which employers were blackmailing certain workers or workers, however you wish, so that they would survive in that workplace or advance in a hierarchy. Article 18 paragraph 2 says – The circumstances which indicate that he is exposed to harassment, sexual harassment or sexual blackmail of employees, are writtenly informing the employer and seeking effective protection. In fact, we asked that this attitude be changed and that it reads as follows: "If an employee considers that he is exposed to harassment, sexual harassment or sexual blackmail, he informs the employer or inspection service by written means and asks for effective protection." Why the inspection and the service? What happens if the employer is the one who blackmails and conditiones the sex worker? How will a worker be protected if he does not have a second-degree authority or a supervisory authority? In that sense, we suggested that the inspection be supervised if a worker or a worker complains and that they establish whether it is sexual blackmail or conditioning. In that sense, we think that the amendment is correct, that it has exceeded and that the amendment should be accepted. The explanation we got from the government doesn't fit and it's not good. Again, I am sorry that the minister is not here to accept this amendment, because the amendment has been extremely correct and exceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32888	Is there another word he wants? Yeah. ) The word wants MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32889	Chairman, I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative of the group because I think we've entered a very slippery terrain and I think we need to get some information that's important for our further work. I mean, for a few months now, there's been a law in the assembly procedure that obviously is missing here to talk about what we're talking about here today, and we're already referring to some of the things that are proposed in that law, actually in the bill of law proposed, and that's the law on labour abuse, so on. Mobingu. That is why it is very important for me to remind those who are able to make agendas for the next session of the Assembly in order to be very desirable that we already had this law before us, that we have commented on it, that it has been brought in and that we are doing much better today and that we are doing this Article 18 here, we would not simply go to unknown terrain and edit matter that is clearly given in one draft of the law, which DSS MPs have done, because we can talk further about this. So I think it's very important and I appeal to those who are able, to the Presidency of our Assembly, to sit down and to have the law on labour abuse at the next session on the agenda. Then we could round up some kind of process and say that we have some laws relating to discrimination, not those relating to work, abuse of work. This is how we're on slippery ground, and I don't think even the lack of a minister is going to fix this situation simply because he couldn't give adequate answers, because they're in some law that's just gonna be in front of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32890	A minute and 40 seconds used by a time-authorized representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Bozidar Delic, Saša Maksimovic, Zoran Antic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32891	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, we have submitted an amendment to Article 19. It is one of those members that we have identified in the principle debate as members who are declarative, where words that are not legally binding are used, such as the words "need to strive". For the sake of the public, I would read what Article 1st position is, although now there is no TV transmission: The employer should strive to offer a less represented half-30% of the place in one cycle of professional training and not to read the whole position, i.e. the number of seats proportional to the gender in the total number of employees. Our amendment applies that this article is changed to the words ''to try'' to be deleted and that the first sentence is a binding ''employee should offer a less represented half-30% place, etc''' When we analyse, of the 99 amendments submitted, which have been rejected, in the 27 amendments, not only of our parliamentary groups but of others, and of the positional and opposition groups, the 27 amendments to the laws that are declarative, as I just said. The main thing is that these members refer to different areas of life and work and that when they engage in the whole context of the law, they give the whole law a declarative character. We heard from the amendment to Article 14, that the minister said a compromise solution was found and we heard what it looked like, because there were about 15 amendments to that article, and that an appropriate compromise solution was found to overcome the problem. A similar situation occurred here, and I see that the Committee on Gender Equality has also proposed an amendment, where article 19 is changed, I will read it for my colleagues and the public. ‘In each cycle of professional training or training, the employer shall ensure that the representation of the sexes reflects, to the greatest extent possible, the structure of the employees of the employer, or the organisational unit for which training is carried out, and shall be reported in the annual report referred to in Article 13(2) of this Act.’; If this amendment is adopted, and possibly adopted by the Government, full Article 19 is amended. Now I can only comment briefly on this part of the sentence "reflects to the greatest extent possible the structure of employees in employers or in the organisational unit". Again, it is a compromise solution that can be interpreted and given an actual subjective component, either an employer, or an organisational unit. My interpretation is that this corrected sentence, or Article 19, certainly does not have a binding character as regards professional training and training, so I do not think that it has improved significantly. It's better than this declarative member who read it the way I read it, and it's better, but there's still room for something that might give a subjective assessment. We've heard more than once, and at my job, I'm aware that in professional education, I'm sure, and high school, I mean colleges and higher schools, and in high school, it depends on the degree of training. The proportion of professionality and qualifications of men and women is approximately the same. In medicine if we analyze, and each segment and every area that should be covered by the law, in medicine the dominant chambers are highly qualified, and that middle spell of the opposite sex, women who are professional, quality, who professionally and at the highest level do their job. It is the same in education, whether it is secondary, basic education and not to list, certainly many other institutions of different kinds, profiles, legal, economic, and even machine, electrical, not to mention, there are male and female parity in skills, quality and professional relationship. I specifically cited this for education, professional training and training. Perhaps the best solution was not to have a percentage, not to have such a compromise, but to have a proper proportionally represented relationship, let a sentence that the lawyers would have said much better, that, if not for a percentage, that sentence made clear that we are proportionally represented in that part. The fact is, they've changed now. We will see later the other members that we will later comment on, which are also declarative, in principle should try, whether they are corrected, some of them are, and I have seen that some are not, and they are not the ones who are not corrected exactly those relating to binding equal percentages in the authorities of the executive authority, or in the boards of directors and supervisors. I wonder why that is, but I'll comment later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32892	Five minutes was used by a time-authorized representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Gender Equality, submitted the amendment to Article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 19th amendment in the same text together were submitted by the MPs Snezana Stojanović-Plasić, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Comić and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32893	Mrs. Komic, since you are the chairman, so there is currently no one to replace you, and the amendment we submitted in the same text and we were right, as well as other colleagues because this must be a binding provision for the employer, who in Article 19, as the legislators wrote, should try to intervene in one cycle, even if I think we should intervene and stand - in every cycle of professional training and education provides, i.e. offer a less represented half 30 seats. The amendment that is in the same text, yours and my colleague Travar, we ask that the employer be obliged to do so, because education and professional training of any sex must be the basic human right and the foundation of the means of achieving the objectives of equality. Non-discrimination in the field of education is as important as non-discrimination on any other basis, based on employment and all of these examples we have heard so far. We fall into a country that still has the misfortune that every fifth, according to official statistics, Serbia's population is only functionally written, but we are not, in view of this drastic data, in that category of countries treated by the UN report on primary education, where of the world's 960 million inhabitants is two-thirds of illiterate women or rather, about 60 million women in the world, these are official UN data, there is no access to basic schooling. Girls and boys in early childhood, and later on, people who want professional training, that is, how does the legislator predict, training here mean not only training in terms of advancement in specialist or academic titles, but when it comes to this difficult period that we're going through, so you'd like to say - in the transition process, so if most of the men and women, especially those who have primary and high school, that's what training is about, and the rest of the job, that is, is now on the street because they're being fired by your tycoons, who you've given to buy businesses by such a law of privatisation, that they don't respect social contracts, labour contracts, and now they're out of work, how are they overtraining themselves and that they have training in this binding number, if you say they have to try to work? There was a case, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established, of the Zastava Institute for Employment and Education. Who tried to retrain these workers? Nobody. They later, according to Dinkic and Cvetkovic, when he served as finance minister and later prime minister, were ballast for the state. Let's get rid of them as soon as possible. You remember that they had to strike for days, as did these poor people who work UGIK "First May" Lapovo, and like many others, textiles in Novi Pazar and so on and workers of "Autosports" from Kragujevac, who were wrongly missed to find themselves on the list of enterprises that have part of social capital, they have 40% of social capital and are not taken into account in the privatisation process. Then who, if you don't make it mandatory, will make them try? These weren't even trying. The state played a direct role in forming the famous institute. There was no requalification at all, and when these new employers came, when the Italian company "Fiat Cars" was formed, that is, the "Punta" factory, because there is a new model on the long stick, and they have neither paid the money nor an annex contract was made, nor is the production of Zastava's cars being seen. Please tell me where these people are going to work now. They got that lousy severance, 200 euros per year of internship, that social programme. The state wrote them off. She said we can't take care of you anymore. No program or project they didn't have, and when the Italians came, through the polling of those who were capable and only a thousand 300 workers have now hired to make the original Italian product. These people who bid on RTS every night know this, so they get, well, lucky, or participate in it, one car "full" that no single bolt is produced in Serbia. Now what? Why couldn't those people have overqualified themselves? The ones at the Tapacre to do something else? The one in the body, too, or the blacksmithshop, Livnica, that doesn't exist at all? Where are these people going now? Where are those women who worked at the textile industry factory on December 22nd? You see where they ended up, on the roof of the factory and threatened to commit suicide, like that martyr cut off his finger. Therefore, you must react to accept that the employer is obliged to send the less-represented sex into this type of training in the process of professional training and training. I mentioned the night we spoke before the end in the principle debate of the famous example of our Serbs, how Milice Stojadinović Srpkinje, who in 1850, wrote the first book of poetry, and this is usually the first time that a woman in Serbia published her book, but time had done hers and many had forgotten, the various authorities that were being replaced, so, although she is in the dungeon of The Hague tribunal, Dr Seselj remembered the famous Milice Stojadinović Srpkinje, is at the head of the editorial board. Last year's "Logos" publishing house, it was a hit at the Belgrade Fair, published its book, poetry from 1850. Or let's talk about Dear Jocic, who in 1871 enrolled High School of Medicine and later became the first woman doctor. She did not ask for someone to provide her with professional training and education, as she was then helped by her family in this liberated Serbia and Serbia in the 19th century, where there were prominent and wealthy families. Like Mileni Pavlovic Barili, whose famous work of art today is proud of these young generations, many women are role models, it can be me and you, Mrs Lakicevic-Stojačić, as well as many ladies here, and those who follow the meetings of the Assembly. So make it binding for employers, however, because today they are weakened, poor Serbian families and many of them, the highest percentage, cannot provide them with the basic, let alone the potential of both young men and girls and young men and women in Serbia, to have knowledge and to be able to perfect themselves and to move forward in their careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32894	Used six minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32895	This is also an amendment that is similar to one of the previous ones, which speaks of the employer having to be obliged, not that he should try. I really think that this formulation -- it should try -- is very unusual for one law, and I have consulted many lawyers who have agreed with me on this, and I have even used solutions from some other law, to ask myself what it would look like if we were to tell the pedestrians that they should try not to cross a traffic light. I really think this is unacceptable. Once again, I urge the representatives of the Ministry, the minister, to think this through and accept it. Is he accepted? Great. Since the amendment has been accepted, then I'll cut the story short. In any case, I am sure that perfecting is one of the very important ways for women to improve their position and that long-term learning, learning throughout life and that it should become a rule in Serbia as well. Learning will also enable professional training. In any case, the position of women should be significantly different. I am pleased that the amendments have been accepted, given that the same amendments or similar, in any case with the same intention, have been submitted by colleagues from several parliamentary groups, which says that we are fully agreed on that solution. Indeed, for the first time in six years of my parliamentary internship, I had the same amendment with Miss Jovanovic. Unfortunately, that's where the resemblance ends. I wouldn't agree at all with the explanation that's related to the flag. On behalf of the citizens of Leskovec I am offering citizens a Kragujevac exchange - give us the flag, give us investors like "Fiyat" and we will be much more satisfied than we are at this point, given the fact that this would significantly improve the situation in our city and the level of employment in our city. Until then, of course, we must try to learn and perfect ourselves, and that is certainly something that will allow both this law and this amendment, which, I hear, is now accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32896	Thank you, she has a replica of Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32897	My colleagues Stojanović-Plasic, it is not worth trading -- I am Kragujevac for Leskovac. From my early age, I am bound by the most beautiful memories of Leskovac because as a girl in elementary school, I used to come there when my brother was there for military service and I know that we have family friends there, without speaking to friends with Serbian radicals Dr Cvetanović, Ljubenovic and my colleague Lidija. We're like one big family, we talk about everything, and I know that your fellow citizens live extremely hard, as they live in Kragujevac. I don't know when you were last in the city where I live, but I was only talking about those who work at the flag car factory because this other one was shut down. The equipment's magically gone, all in pieces carried out. It's just going to be the subject of a new affair, but I don't want to talk before I get all the concrete data from the people who worked on that job -- where are the machines and equipment gone, those main lines of flag cars? What we have so far has given no incentive to develop the city, if you mean from the car factory itself, or the state itself, none of it, because it wasn't paid until March 31st this year, promised 200 million, according to the Memorandum by the Fiat factory. It's delayed, you know, Annex contracts for January next year, so they said they'll see that they're paying an estimated 100 million. It's not about putting together a new "punta two", the original, as I said "flag" product, it's about the possibility that even through the production of "punta" we get co-operatives. It was today that I saw in my daily paper an evaluation of Italian experts that they had been attested to products in Serbia, for 36 perhaps components. There should certainly be a potential that, from the very beginning, Kruševska Trajal could have been involved in the project of production of the "punta", as well as the "Stava-Electro" Rača, which you all know very well. It doesn't mean anything personal, it's examples that I'm referring to, and we should be in Serbia, if we want some serious car manufacturing to have, that we have a developed network of at least 140 cooperatives, but we can't have because many companies are destroyed. So I was saying in the context that the state currently has 750 euros per "full" car, and from that, the town of Kragujevac is much less. These development projects, programs, or I would like it the most, because I was born Kragujevchanka and, of course, although we are opposition to Stevanović's authority, here I am ending up we want good for our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32898	Time -- thank you. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32899	Now I'm wondering if this amendment of mine has been accepted because it's only really about replacing the order of words. So, the amendment was accepted by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Comic, with the only difference, instead of these words "needs to try" they say "is due", and I say "is due". So, it doesn't matter, and I'm going to feel like that amendment was accepted, because the motive was actually to point out what was some kind of basic need. Very often, women are too young or too young, so unrecommended, because of pregnancy and maternity leave, or are too old again, so let's say that there are 28,500 women between 50 and 55 in the labour market in Serbia. It's officially said to be a difficult employment category. It's just that there's still a need to extend this retirement time limit, so that things can get into unbearable difficulties for women - without work, without being able to wait for retirement, with age discrimination, which prevents professional training and training. But what's interesting about these amendments, and I haven't really seen a case like this. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Natas Jovanovic from the SRS, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic from G17 Plus, Gordana Comic from DS, I, therefore, from New Serbia, and I see that Aleksandra Jerkov from the League had an almost identical amendment, as we did. Obviously, then, when these party uniforms are removed, there remains one difficult common reality in which women are expected to be intelligent, although not too smart enough to be a smart escort, audience or logistical support for men, especially if it's partner relations. They are expected to be - educated, active in society, good housewives, dedicated wives, beautiful, groomed, energetic, but of course not masculine, gentle, yet still not be countrymen and roasting. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here, because he's probably the only one who belongs to that privileged part...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32900	Mrs. Jankovic, time is complete, and MP groups and by reason, you have spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32901	So much for equality, about gender equality -- thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32902	You're welcome. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. On what basis, Miss? According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32903	There's nothing to be afraid of, Mr. Novakovic. It's a matter of procedural nature. I can't communicate like this. First, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić cannot answer me because she is not authorized to speak, and when she could be an MP, a colleague with us. You probably, I don't know, will tell you Mr. Pudar, you should give a notice to me and colleagues Stojanović-Plasic and colleagues Jankovic - that our amendment and colleagues Comic were not accepted, but the Committee's amendment. I'm asking you to let me read it, because it's not in the same text - let me get this straight. So we asked - that the employer is obliged, and the law said "needs to" to strive in one cycle of professional training or training to offer a less represented half-30% place. The Committee said -- in every cycle, that's what, if you followed me, what we said was that we should intervene, professional training or training, the employer makes sure that gender representation is the most possible way. His rate isn't 30%. Perhaps his greatest measure is 5-10%, and that means our amendment has not been accepted. And it says -- the structure of employees in the employer or in the training organisation unit, and it reports in the annual report -- so it's not accepted again. "The greatest measure possible" is so vague. Here you go, Mr. Novakovic, what is the greatest measure for you? The biggest possible measure is, says counterpart Jocic, 100%, but since that is not the case, we were looking for, or the greatest possible measure for us was 30% at this time. Later, when we do the alterations and supplements, we'll ask for 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32904	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I accept this clarification. At the same time, I am informing you that the amendment has been accepted - so I would read: the amendment has been accepted, and from that, therefore, there has been a mistake here and I hope that we have now removed it. On what basis, do I apologize? The word is Mrs Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32905	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, as I've been led astray. I thought the amendment was accepted, then I must really say that I don't see any reason to accept an amendment that says that, as my colleague already said, she's working to the greatest extent possible again... Yeah, right? I think and I'll stay on that, and I'm asking you to really pass on the minister to consider accepting this amendment, because we're going to vote on it. That's quite clear. So there's no reason, there's absolutely no reason. You have explained to us - the amendment is not accepted, the promoter has proposed a general declaration, conditional, forward for situations that are yet to happen, norm. There are standards in the legal system that don't have sanctions. This issue can be particularly appreciated from the point of view of practical consequences, which has been proposed and managed. What practical consequences? What effect a negative person will have if he does not send for the improvement of 30% of the less represented sex compared to the existing representation in that body or the employer, or whatever. I really just don't see any reason for this amendment not to be accepted. Is there a problem? I urge you to reconsider accepting this amendment. I don't see the reason absolutely that the problem is to send it to perfect 30% less represented sex. What's going to happen if 30% of the less represented sex is sent to perfecting or retraining? I also remind you of the fact that it is really very common now in Serbia to keep the job or to get to work at all, which is a problem for a large number of women. Please think about this one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32906	The time for advertising of the Rules of Procedure is up, but we've tried very hard to make this clear, so it seems we haven't listened enough. According to the Rules of Procedure, but I really do ask for the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32907	Now I'm really asking you not to prejudge because it's like you've got some phobia the other day, and now you're apologizing to me. Don't make me bring you in here in three days to apologize twice. I wouldn't like that, really. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm in informal communication, it wasn't right for me or your side, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure because we're communicating without a microphone, but I'm not here right now, so I can't ask you, ask you how long we're working today? Mrs. Komic, who left you to chair, informed the MPs, Mr. Novakovic, at 1415 hours, when she chaired, that we would be working on the agenda of the Law on Gender Equality and after 18:00 hours, considering the draft law in particular, but no longer, the witness was Mr. Pudard, no, then Mr. Odalović, I apologize, no longer than 60, or 90 minutes after 1800 hours, so I would like to ask you now, and as vice president, in accordance with Article 131 and Article 104, to inform the MPs that tonight we will be working for the longest time, while we are already at these figures, because you can freely interpret what is the longest, as well as these employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32908	I'll answer you very quickly, just to check exactly what Mrs. Comic said, and what she said, that's how it's going to be. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: You don't trust me? No, I believe you, but you are not Mrs. Comic. So, if it's said for 90 minutes, we'll be working 90 minutes after 1800 hours. Mrs. Jankovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32909	The dignity of this House has indeed been violated. You, Mr. Novakovic, when explained by colleague Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, the amendment, she said - I don't know if the amendment was accepted, and according to your gesture, because you were working like this (the ambassador climate-headed as a sign of approval), and you are not Greek, we concluded that the amendment was accepted. The colleague, of course, came to the conclusion that the amendment was accepted. After that explanation, you told counterpart Natasa Jovanovic that you would indicate that the amendment was accepted by whom. That's when you finally demonstrated a kind of discrimination here in the Assembly, based on half, one gender inequality. You as a man now leave yourself the right to interpret to us when and in any case, and in what way we will be informed of the acceptance of the amendment. If this means non-acceptance, then I'm just curious about what acceptance means. You've shown that you've been acting discriminatoryly against the present applicants of the amendment, and you've only brought us into confusion to the end. You interrupted me the moment I wanted to say what was most important. I'm glad to have Mr. Minister Ljajic back. This applies to you, too, Mr. Novakovic. It's easy for you, you know, to have your services in mind of all kinds of women waiting for you at home to iron your shirts and wrap up those beautiful suits waiting for you in the morning. No wonder here, when we took off party uniforms, there's a consensus between women, because our reality is different. We're expected, I've already said, to be both energetic and smart, and gentle, to talk to an acceptable dictionary, to run on heels and to break up on various campaigns, because it's perfectly normal for women who have accepted to be active, and of course, we're expected to be constantly educated, to be phenomenal housewives, to take care of children and to take as little as possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32910	Thank you. Time's up, two minutes. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure either way. No pantomime chairor or chairman can accept or refuse the amendment, as you know, and if you don't know, I'll give you an explanation now. The chairman, after reading the amendment, who submitted it, to which member, informs the Assembly whether the amendment has been accepted by whom. Thus, noxiousness or any other gestures absolutely cannot cause any confusion. Are you satisfied with the explanation or do you want in the voting day that the Assembly declares whether it hurts the Rules of Procedure itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32911	Mr. Novakovic, I'm entitled to a replica, I wasn't talking about the pantomime, I was talking about your...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32912	You have no right to a replica. Thank you. We'll be working till 7:30 today. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32913	We've been staying with this article for a long time. One dilemma we seem to have solved, that "the employer should strive" that it should be replaced. Because the word "try" itself does not oblige anyone, and we have submitted an amendment where we are talking about the employer having to offer at least 50% of the place in one cycle of professional training or training and we insist on it. Our request is being made out of Article 14. So we're discussing a bill on gender equality. Mr. Minister, how can it be equal to 30% and 70%? Here you have two-thirds, and here you have one-third. So professional training is a very important thing. Without professional training, there is no progress, no progress in society at all. We think this is a real measure. You have answered us in the explanation that the amendment is rejected in view of the reasons, as well as the amendment under regular number 28, and this explanation is as follows - the amendment is not accepted, the standard of 30-40% is a fact which makes it harder for developed societies in the EU. You see, they gave you one stretching notion from 30% to 40%, and what did you score at 30%? Why isn't that 32, which isn't 33, which isn't 39.5? Why not show a little goodwill to increase that percentage? From this I can conclude that you haven't really considered these amendments at all. You have no will to change the law. You've prescribed it by 30%, and that's the way it is. If it is 30 to 40% in the EU, show little that you are for real equality. Increase it to 35%, why are you so tough? I really doubt some of your good intentions and honesty about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32914	You want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32915	Yes, I want a word and I would take the opportunity, since the minister is here now, and he is authorized to accept the amendment during the debate. Now you can accept the amendment, and after that you won't be able to do it anymore. And once again, I want to point out, now that you're here, that I don't see any reason to make it impossible to perfect 30% or 50% of people who are employed, less represented half, and that's compared to the organisation's representation. To clarify, I participated in the drafting of this law when he was in the Assembly in the last or previous term of office of the Assembly. I know what this is about. I know what kind of fears there are. When we asked every delegation to have 30%, they told us, what about military delegations, say, because there are no employees of 30% of women, etc.? This is where the law says according to the number of employees. If he's got 10 female employees, he'll go 30%? You have nothing to worry about. I really don't know. There's something weird going on with this law. I'm sure you all support what we're talking about. I don't know why there's been this kind of misunderstanding, really. What's that fear? What's behind this? I'd really like to hear one reasonable explanation. Who's afraid of that, that they're going to have to send for the training and training of people who are less represented at a certain percentage? Who's afraid to hire a less represented sex at 30%? What's so terrible about this country that the less represented sex becomes to remove that barrier? I really want to know why this is such a problem. Mr. Minister, since you're directly in charge, I ask you to consider and tell us, what is causing so much trouble in hiring a less represented sex? What creates such problems in overcoming some barriers in our society? This society has been defined to be different. Why is it less certain when it comes to gender equality that it wants to be different? Why is the problem with having more, as my colleague said, grandmother of men? Why is the problem with having more women pilots? Mr. Minister, let me inform you that JAT is not hiring any female pilots, and there are women who are trained and trained to do so. We received them here in the Assembly. No one's ever been through what's-his-name. preparedness tests. They work in companies all over the world. They can't work in Serbia. Come on, please, let's make a move in that direction and really set new standards that will be educational, that will teach our youngsters, that it's really not necessary for grandmothers to be just women and only pilots to be men. Let's take a step, please, while you're here, it'll be too late tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32916	Thank you. The time used is 3.15 minutes. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32917	We felt that by accepting the amendments to the Committee, we could make one compromise, give up the original formulation that was in the draft law, and on the other hand, to allow this flexible formulation to even have a higher percentage of 30%, if there are companies and businesses, to go to training and professional training. Therefore, I think you have seen and know what this Article 19 looks like – in every cycle of professional training or training, the employer shall make sure that the representation of the sex represents, to the greatest extent possible, the structure of the employees of the employer or of the organisational unit in which the training is carried out and reported in the annual report referred to in Article 13(2) of this Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32918	Thank you. Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32919	This is a replica now, to what the minister said. It would be good if it were really like that. Unfortunately, we have experience that most often is not Can't a replica? [[President: Excuse me, no replica. You can use MEP time]] All right, then time of the parliamentary group. In the largest possible number, we're not sure what number it's going to be. That largest possible number can be 10%, 30% is a European standard, let's record it as 30%, so if they want to, they won't mind. Believe me, the largest possible number is an interpretation that someone can give and the right to be 10%. That's what we're afraid of, and that's usually the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32920	Thank you. Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32921	What about companies if they don't have more than 10% of the women's employees? So I think this formula is broad enough to satisfy what you're saying and suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32922	Thank you. We're done with this circle of replicas. Thank you very much. Here you go, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32923	If I may make it clear, since I see the minister is ready to hear. It says here – of 30% of the place, i.e. the number of places proportional to the participation of the sex in the total number of employees in the employer or in the organisational unit for which training is carried out, i.e. professional training. Minister, we don't have that problem you were talking about - what if it doesn't? So, a proportional number of employees is 30% required to send it to perfection. I really don't think there's any reason. If you insist okay, but I don't see a reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32924	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32925	I don't really insist, but I think we have a formal problem. We've accepted the Committee's amendment, so I understand your argument as well. She corresponds with what's in this article 19 that's been accepted on the board and I don't see that it could be any formal obstacle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32926	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32927	I will use group time according to this amendment. The way it stands in the proposal -- it seeks that, this formulation and the formulation that stands in the Committee's proposal are the same. Both are completely non-binding. What does the formulation mean – to the greatest extent possible? If someone doesn't have one, doesn't send any member of the less represented sex, he can, at the criticism of why it wasn't done or threatened to say – I couldn't do it anymore. The law says well, if you adopt that amendment – to the greatest extent possible. And the wording from the proposal and such a pretty bad proposal from the board themselves are the same. They don't practically change anything. I suggest that you accept Mrs Plassic's amendment, which answered the question – what if there are no employees of 10 women at all, but 30% compared to the total number of employees of the less-represented sex. If we're talking about the military, so you only have 10% of the women employed in the military, it'll be 30% of the total number of employees, and then it doesn't endanger or create problems that can't be overcome. With this amendment of ours, we suggested that it be 50%, so it would be 50% of the total number of employees again. I think you should accept this amendment, otherwise it will, and I think we agreed through this discussion, and we'll vote it in the Assembly when it's voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32928	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32929	Mr. Novakovic, since this is about my amendment that we filed in the same text as my colleague and my littleness, on behalf of the SRS, let me say one more thing, Mr. Minister. I first heard from you a few years ago for the term so-called. positive discrimination, which you used in another context when the Law on the Selection of Members of the People and of your other colleagues was passed. We then made it clear and loud to you that it is impossible that there is positive and negative discrimination and discrimination in itself. Now you explain to me – whether discrimination is it, you explained to your colleague Plassic that it is impossible and that the employer cannot implement it because there are no 30% of the women employed. For those of us who are in a permanent working relationship with the National Assembly, this provision would also not apply, as there are some projects of professional training of MPs, so for those who are in constant work, this could not be implemented. Our employer is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we are not yet in that percentage, but 22. Where there is this possibility, let's say, in your ministry, the authority of the state administration, you're an employer and you'll probably, as the man you consider to be the closest associates of your colleague, to try to get them to go to professional training, and also to the training they need, not just them, but everyone else. Where there isn't, then you can't enforce that member of the law. So, believe me, we've been confused, you've been out at that point, it won't be a problem, it's not a formal obstacle, because when it's a voting day, we, as my colleague Banovic said, will most likely see it by a statement from all the parliamentary groups, and the fact is that both the opposition and the ruling parties have submitted the amendment, adopt this and make it binding. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32930	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32931	I already said, if there are no formal obstacles, we will accept this amendment. We tried to correct the text by accepting the Committee's amendment. Since it is obviously not enough and since the MPs and the authorities and the opposition consider it necessary to give an additional binding formulation, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32932	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 21st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Elvira Kovac and together with a correction by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Bozidar Delic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32933	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 21 was submitted for the same reason as the previous amendments of the Progress Serbia parliamentary group, and in order to seek to reform the obligation to comply with the provisions of this law. Five amendments tabled by MPs from different parliamentary groups, both the opposition and the ruling parties' MPs, have been submitted to this article. In addition, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality. We have the same situation here as Article 19. The amendment tabled by the Committee is also imprecise, as it says that in the education of the Committee on Corporate Negotiations, employers' unions, in accordance with the law governing work, are making sure that gender representation represents the largest possible structure of their members. So, it's exactly the same situation, and our amendment is more precise, so I suggest you accept the parliamentary groups of Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32934	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Gender Equality, tabled an amendment to Article 21. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mr Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32935	Since we have more similar amendments, we accept this amendment because it is analogous to Article 19. Therefore, by analogy, we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32936	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Government's representatives, you were just not present, Minister, when I explained the amendment to Article 18, where position 2 is changed. It would be nice if your colleagues would let you know, and I hope you'll accept that amendment, too, because it's over-explained and reasoned. When it comes to the amendment to Article 21, I must give one clagworth and remind the citizens of Serbia, and you, gentlemen of the MPs, that in 2004, the Law on People's MPs was passed, where it is mandatory for each list to have at least 30% of women. Analysingly, the council lists at the bar should also have 30% of women. We have 56 women in Parliament, we have five ministers, we have four MPs, one president and three vice presidents, which is also the fruit of that law. So, we gave one homework and we expected this law to work out this matter and make a shift in Serbia's democratisation. Namely, our amendments are consistent with the 30% normative, in Article 21, which speaks of collective bargaining, union and employers' association, should seek to provide at least 30% of representatives of the less-represented half-represented half-proportional participation of the gender in trade unions in employers' unions in accordance with the law governing work. Namely, like the previous amendments explained by my colleagues from the DSS parliamentary group, we demand that the 30% be deleted and 50% entered. I hope you will accept this amendment because it is extremely reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32938	The 21st amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32939	I'd like to ask the minister if the amendment to article 21 has been accepted. So it is. Okay, now I'm going to explain it. The amendment concerns Article 21 relating to collective bargaining and is identical to the amendment to Article 14. The amendment to Article 21 reads: the words "need to try" are changed in the words "they are in debt". So the amendment was accepted and that's good. The proposed amendment has made a concrete proposal to improve gender equality, while the proponent has left room for irresponsibility and violation of the principle of equality with flexibility. Union organisation lags behind market changes. That is why trade unions are obliged to include less gender in membership, in the education of the Committee on Negotiations, actively, and not to include trade unions and associations "need to strive". Economic equality between women and men is necessary to achieve a balance in male-female relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32940	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32941	I came here to get a little reinforcement from these 33% of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Thank you, Mr. Ljajic, for accepting this amendment and for showing that you're making a difference between this "needs to try" and "he owes". It would be good for you to explain that to our chairman, because it is not the same whether he should try to give me his word or whether he is obliged to do so by the Rules of Procedure or when we talk about a certain amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32942	I'm trying to give my word to anyone who asks, because I owe it to them. Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32943	We've finally come to the field of encouraging women's employment. This member is just a member of this topic. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment precisely because the text of the law has noticed that there are a lot of declarative oaths here, and there are few concrete measures. It's only somewhere in attitude four that specific measures are mentioned. We've really been preparing for this topic for a long time, because we've had a few suggestions, which we've analyzed, that were in various time periods of procedure. We have seen that there are much better and more concrete solutions. Some of them we offered here. It seems to me that this field of employment is exactly where we need to take a little more account, precisely because the position of women on the labour market has worsened since 2000. It also deteriorated compared to how much they had in the previous period, let's say, in the 1990s, the female labour force's representation was 70%, in 2000 it was 58%. We don't have any data today, but I'm telling you they're below 40%. If the position of women in the labour market and the position of men in the labour market compares, there have been many times so far words here in parliament during the debate today. These two things can't compare and the percentages of women compared to men are dramatically lower. When you look at the unemployment rate, it's significantly higher in women - 24% to 16%. When the employment rate is, men have 63, women 44%. In the formal labour market, if a category of women is observed, only young people and those with a low level of education are in a more difficult position than women. On the other hand, women enter the labour market under completely unequal conditions and circumstances, on average longer they wait for work than men, regardless of the degree of professional training, even if they have more education than men. On the other hand, we talked about discrimination in employment several times about women over 40 and above. There is also information that is very interesting and very problematic regarding the DSS, as it is almost 30,000 women, 28,500 to 55 years old in the situation that they cannot find another job and have no chance of being equal citizens of Serbia in any foreseeable future, but have been placed in a position that they are not the third category of Serbian citizens, but rather Serbian citizens who do not have a category. Furthermore, you have a situation where these women of 40 years of age and above are in a position to find work very difficult if they lose their previous job. Now you have an alarming situation that more than 40% of women of those years are in a jobless situation. You also have one discrimination against young women who first have, to put it this way, rude conditions to get a job. Then they have a situation that they can't have children. From these circumstances, we believe that this member who is involved in politics and inciting employment must read like this, I will say - The National Employment Service brings every other year a programme to encourage employment and self-employment of less-represented sex. The programme referred to in Article 1 shall include measures and activities to encourage women who have been unemployed for more than two years. The programme to encourage self-employment of women is educated by the Guarantee Fund for Business Assistance, the Fund for the Crediting of Women's Entrepreneurship and Women's Cooperatives, the Service for Professional Advisory, Training and Professional Training, the Service for the provision of advice in the area of business finance. Additional funding for the programmes referred to in Article 2 shall also be provided from the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, donations and other sources. I really think it's the last time this category of women who lose their jobs and the Bureau takes more than two years to deal with it. I think what we have proposed with our amendment is very specific. This is a language of very concrete action, very concrete measures, and I think it should be accepted. It should be accepted not because it comes from MPs from this party, but because it will contribute to turning this law as it is into a law that intends to improve the position of women in Serbia. Thank you. This was the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32944	Three minutes from the time of the authorized representative. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32945	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, here's a colleague, Vojić-Markovic, who has entered this matter, which is extremely important, because this process of poverty is in absolute and relative terms, however you want to interpret it, in our country and in the past year, and the fact is that you also said a few days ago that 700,000 people are at the poverty line. Someone wondered, how much is below the poverty line? Here, colleague Markovic says. I have to tell you, and you also know that raw statistics are not only with us, but in the countries of the Western-European Union, which you are trying to get into with all the titles, while KIM is being taken away from us and underestimating our citizens, our fellow citizens from the southern Serbian province that they are not on the white Schengen list, and in Western European countries there is this proportionality in terms of employment and poverty among women. Even someone used it there in the Assembly in which our delegation is due - to feminize poverty among employees. So they wanted to say that in these percentages that are the fruit of the research work of our fellow parliamentarians there, the percentage that women are less than 15, up to 25% than men, some average 17, and in America even before what they did, caused these stock exchange malversions of this so-called. The global economic crisis, the percentage moves around 15% that women are less paid. In Serbia, not only is this a problem, but it is also a problem, especially when it comes to single mothers, which are families that support women by nature poorer, because they also have children, and children by law belong to women, so they are forced to accept much less paid jobs and jobs in very many cases that bear risk and greater risk both from labour injuries and much worse conditions, etc., especially in this situation when this global market economy is also in the process of hiring and treating employees in our country ruthlessly. A woman goes to work, say, she's a mother, a single mother, she has a child who's in elementary school and, say, works at some financial institution, some bank. I know about those cases. You don't respect working hours. If he leaves in the morning, here says colleague Dragan Stevanovic and his wife, I'm talking about some particular case I know, but thank God, his wife is not a single mother, but I'm talking about a specific example. He comes to work at 5:30 in the morning and someone thinks, "Yeah, it's nice, you work in one of those banks that survived." When's he coming home? At seven o'clock at night. Who's taking care of the kid? By the way, that kid is a great student, that a person is an example of his peers and in the sections, with all the fives at school. But when will this mother affect the education and training of that child, if her working hours are not respected? You have many other cases. Therefore, these are the exact data that these age limits are actually purely discrimination against women in employment, and this included this national employment strategy and advice within your ministry that has been formed, that women over 40 years have been discriminated against in the employment process. Turns out they're not worth anything to anyone and nobody gives a shit. You know, you're collateral damage in the transition process, from 40 to 50 years old, and you're not retired, no one can give you a new job. I think you really need to allocate budgets and make a dedicated commitment to the less represented sex, or to those who don't have a job. This resolution that I mentioned, the Report on Discrimination on Women's Employment and Jobs, is currently talking about these data, but since we have the largest number of women with less professional training fired and they are now at the National Employment Service, there are also such cases that this is also an example for those with more education, and they are then double-discriminatory. Em has a professional qualification for a particular position, but then they are discriminated against because they are over 40 or 50 years old, so they have no conditions for retirement. You must take care of it, Mr. Ljajic, that in the coming year, the IMF will continue to blackmail us and beat our pucks, as they have since this year. First, pensioners were killed. This is a pension adjustment scam based on inflation that is shown, in a way that corresponds to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and you, too, when you enter both your wife and your colleague and all of us in the shop, see that this is much more about than the percentage shown on the annual level. We'll get into more and more difficult problems. They won't, they say, and you've explained it in the last 15 days, to start immediately asking to move that age line, who knows how many ladies have asked me if we're going to have to do it by 65 years, but they say in the next stages, well, that's going to be some of their terms. It's best to make savings, that all this mob that exists in this so-called. agencies for everything and everything, to make nice laws, to put aside the existence of those agencies. They receive salaries there, do nothing, and promote exports, and for this, and for that, they do absolutely nothing. And what you've now established, the State Audit Institute. The biggest abuses were mostly there, and through the purchase of equipment and various specialized contracts, the costs they made. Let's get a good lead on the fact that whoever's been making such abuses fits, and let's do, as we suggest to Article 22, these are all similar amendments, indeed one employment fund. This strategy must exist by the state and to help women. Economic independence is then their security in every other sense, because especially in rural areas, where a mother, a housewife, a woman who has no ability to work, besides that, I have to tell you, but that's not only strictly your portfolio, it's a huge sin against women in Serbia, especially our country-based housewives and mothers, which is not necessarily your mother's or parent's addition. It's got to be a category acquired. You know, a child who was born in the country, so she pays or doesn't pay, mostly everyone had to register, these farmers, but children have to, whether they come from one or another family to have a child's allowance. That should be a category acquired. We'll fight for it under five laws. Right, colleague Plassic? I'll give you a chance to say something about it. Look how solid I am. When we pass a package of children's rights laws, because we don't have them, and we set up a task force. So, you try both as a man and as a gentleman, after all, to fight for that there's money and you slap your hand on the table at the government and say, "I want money from the budget for hiring women, because they don't have a job, they're struggling, and the whole family is on them, and in any case they're the most injured in this process, so on. transitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32946	Seven minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP, Gordan Rajkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Stevanović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is not true that what we have proposed through the amendment is not in line with the positive regulations governing the area of health care. I'm not even going to say that what you suggested in the law is not in line with the positive regulations. But it seems to me that what you wanted, we understand what you wanted, you haven't properly arranged it, and you didn't adequately predict it through this 24th member of the law. Here's why we think that. That is why we have proposed a whole new member of the 24th, and we believe that the more adequate solution proposed by the SRS is more meaningful and consistent with the positive regulations. Here's why. We think you've exploited this term of health care in one wrong way. Be careful, in the first position of the member you say - gender-based discrimination is prohibited when exercising the right to healthcare. You're a doctor. Be careful, the Republic of Serbia provides women with health care, establishing health institutions at the primary, secondary, tertiary level, in accordance with a law governing health care. We find it wrong to say that women's health care institutions are being established in the context of the health care of women provided by the Republic of Serbia. You can set up special institutions that will deal with improving women's health, for example, in reproductive health, although this is a question, because reproductive health is not only a question of women, but also of men. It seems to me that, in accordance with the first position of this member, we do not have the right to double health care in that context - women and men. You could, and you had in some way and you had an obligation to provide for special measures through this health care, to call them that, and not to say that women's health care includes especially, meaning that you define them as special measures and that you end up putting them not to be considered discrimination. That would be a completely comprehensive and adequate solution. It's like this or, I'd say, one good intention, a correct intention, one inadequate formulation unthinked. I'll ask you to listen to what we have suggested. When exercising the right to health care, gender-based discrimination is prohibited. The Republic of Serbia, within the framework of the health care and health care system, we insisted that the state finance a health insurance system of some of the measures to be applied to this context, provides specific health care measures for women who are improving women's reproductive health. Special care measures for women include: counselling and education regarding family planning, providing all health services that are in the function of family planning, prevention and treatment of serious illnesses, especially those present in women. We think that the solution is more adequate, more content, than the solution proposed by the law, and you won't make a mistake if you accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32948	From the time of the authorised representative, one minute and 35 seconds. You have four minutes and 25 seconds left. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32949	I think, thanks to this amendment of ours, a somewhat slighted poor formulation of this article and what my colleague Stevanovic was saying, he's absolutely right, and we have somewhat saved your face with this amendment, not even knowing that there is this amendment. Namely, we have suggested that in point 2 the sentences that go: "The Republic of Serbia provides health care for women and men by establishing health institutions at the primary, secondary and tertiary level." When we criticise you that this law is a declarative nature, that it is very general, that there are some general places, that health care is very good or bad, but it's mostly regulated by the Health Protection Act, and now that you've adopted this amendment, we're practically saying something that is common and everything already exists. I also understand the promoter's intention that you specifically wanted to point out perhaps institutions that would be involved in the protection of women, although, as Mr. Stevanovic said, health care includes particularly: "prevention and early detection of disease", I am now reading the proposal, but unfortunately, there should be prevention and early detection of disease in men too. When it comes to reproductive health, it is equally necessary to care for reproductive health and women and men. I don't know if you know the information, but when it comes to reproductive health, the relationship is 50-50. So 50% of women have problems, but in 50% of cases, men. I don't think you wanted us to discriminate against men with these members now. It's the same with family planning. It's not just a woman's plan, and it's not just a woman who can plan a family, nor should she. There must also be a man involved. I think you did well to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32950	From the time of the parliamentary group of 35 seconds. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32951	Mr. Minister, I do not dispute that you had good intentions with this member of the law. But I wonder if you followed other regulations in the area of health care? For example, in terms of working time, health institutions providing services to citizens, among other things, women and children? It's regulated by a completely different law. You wrote here in an explanation why you refused this amendment that you were thinking about: “Other institutions dealing with additional work on providing health care and social protection for women and children. ” We have suggested that this problem should come out by accepting this amendment, which should change attitude 1 and read: “The social and health care institutions are required to organise work and schedules of working time to adapt to the needs of the users. ” I want to tell you next. The other day we passed the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. One of these responsibilities is the area of health, where AP Vojvodina is said to be taking over responsibilities regarding the establishment of health institutions and others, and regulation of working time. The same is true for the city of Belgrade, and so is the Republic of Serbia. We have three kinds of regulations. I find this regulation completely unnecessary this way as you state it. Accept this amendment, that this applies only to health and social institutions dealing with women and children's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32952	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32953	We have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32954	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Plecevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. A bill on gender equality, which says: "Institutions of social and health care, and other institutions dealing with the protection of women and children, are required to adapt the organisation and schedule of working time to the needs of users." My intervention with this member is that other competent authorities, such as the Ministry of Health, local self-government, which is responsible for their functioning, provide the organisation of the work and schedules of the working time referred to in Article 1. In response to the government's failure to accept the amendments, among other things, the proposer is said to view the excessive adjustment of the agreement process itself. The aim of the provision is to highlight the importance of a social and health institution, i.e. their availability to users in order to facilitate the exercise of their rights, primarily by keeping account of the labour obligations of users of services. I ask what the importance of these institutions is diminished, and what is too high in that amendment, if the consent of the institutions responsible for their functioning is sought? The amendment does not require a process of obtaining consent, but requires co-operation and reconciliation on working time and everything else on this matter. The definition of working time and work of institutions dealing with social and health care is not just a question of these institutions or a question of only the ministries responsible for these institutions, it is also a matter of local self-government, for example, if it is a health home or, for example, a social institution, because local self-government is best aware of the needs of its users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32956	Thank you, Mrs. Pletevic. The People's MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 28th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Elvira Kovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Snezana Stojanović-Plasic and Jelena Travar-Miljević together submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32957	Article 29 speaks of domestic violence. The first point is that all family members have the same right to protect against domestic violence. Our intervention is to delete in point 2 the word “woman, ” which would read: “The provision of victims of violence, in order to prevent violence and the exercise of their right to life without violence (safe houses and others). ” It is indisputable that women are the greatest victims of domestic violence. But there are also men, and especially there are children, so I think that when we talk about quality, good care of victims of violence, then we shouldn't just talk about women, even though we know that women are the biggest victims, but they are also children, and there are certainly men. If we're already talking about gender equality, then when it comes to domestic violence, we need to show that we understand and understand that domestic and male violence exists, especially against children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32958	The word has a minister, Mr Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32959	We have accepted the same amendment submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, so this proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32960	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Gender Equality Committee have accepted it. On Article 29 of the amendment, the MPs together: Zlata Đeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32961	Here, when considering the part about harassment at work, I, when you were a short time away Mr. Minister, talked about this issue of domestic violence, which is increasingly present in the public media area because there was obviously not much talk about it before, although we have been at the Committee on Gender Equality since he was established in these specific cases. We couldn't always get to the public with concrete action. The role of society in this is that I, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested that, not as you said, public authorities are obliged to plan, organise, implement and finance measures aimed at raising public awareness, but I suggested that it be – public awareness, which is more logical and linguistic. This is not only a ruse sentence for you first, but it does not essentially mean anything, public awareness is something that is the usual term in our society. Through all the laws, and you when you talk about anything you want to promote, you'll be everywhere, Mr. Minister, to say public awareness, not to say public awareness. So I think it is logical for you to accept this amendment, and secondly, to refer to this accepted amendment by your colleague, Stevanović, and also to what Mrs. Donka Banovic said, not only this media and activity and the role of every individual in society to combat domestic violence. When you say domestic violence, yes, you think of women, primarily violence against children. You see for yourself that in the past year there have been really terrible stories in our media and cases of violence against children and especially because of the fact that this year, the year in which we celebrated here and in the House of the National Assembly 20 years since the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The role of the state in this regard should be much greater. Women are abused by individuals, including children, through trade and through various forms of abuse, which are not available to the general public, but the role of society and the local community themselves must be much greater in all of this. It starts with a police authority, so on a call that needs to determine what happened there, and not some police officer from a local police station, in a smaller environment, will say, "Yeah, it's supposed to get a few slaps anymore, it's not enough." Remember that story, right, when this mentioned one was adopted today, the codified Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family in 2005, so when the perpetrator of this really serious crime was punished and when he was ordered to approach the house where he lived, regardless of whether it was a man or a woman, but police and judicial statistics were such that it was mostly men, then they wanted to make a parody on one television, so they filmed two locals of the same village, so they made a joke, and one said, well, if you're banned, it's not me. Then I'll go there, and you'll come here. A joke aside, Mr. Ljajici Mr. Novakovic, it's not a matter of how someone throws it, dealing with it in such a situation, but a serious problem in our society. I told you not only us, we are not even on the worst scale as far as these EU countries are concerned. Usually this degree of violence, but wrongly, I have explained it to some specific examples from my city, it binds to the degree of poverty, so they say - they are poor, so they have nothing to do. Believe me, in the environments where people can barely cope with life, they're much more respected and they live in that community and they're schooling, and they're getting along and they're winding up in different ways. It is happening, and these are the reports of our fellow parliamentarians from various countries, that it is present in higher intellectual circles. Some of those cases that are public secret in my city I mentioned, of course not to an ad person, but to describe that everyone knows and that these things happen. Therefore, it is necessary to have public awareness that we all need to get on the road, and especially those whose hands are a particular case, and the victim above all to protect himself in a way that provides free legal assistance, to protect himself in the sense that he has a safe place, a safe roof over his head, etc. I think that, in that sense, it should, and because of the better language formulation, and which is appropriate to accept this amendment and that public awareness of the need to prevent domestic violence is affirmed in Serbian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-02-0.u32962	Four minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, you've spent. This is what we're going to do with today's work. Thank you for your cooperation. Work continues tomorrow, Thursday, 3. 12. In 2009, at 10:00. The SRS parliamentary group has three minutes and 45 seconds and four minutes and 25 seconds of authorised representative. The DSS parliamentary group has six minutes and 45 seconds of authorised representative time and 18 minutes and 40 seconds of parliamentary group. For the rest of us tomorrow. Thanks for the suggestions. You see how good coordination is. I welcome you. Goodbye.
