ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present at this point, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Nikola Krpic, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called this session for Thursday, 22 January 2009, therefore, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in a given agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was convened at the request of 168 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Third Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary organisations, 2. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, 3. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 106 is Section 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to meet in an emergency session at the request of at least one third of the MPs or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda. Therefore, in relation to the agenda set by the authorising officer for the extraordinary sitting, no changes to the agenda can be proposed. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have adopted a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, with corrections submitted by the President of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that it is the time of debate, according to parliamentary groups, as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 8 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group Forward, Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities – 8 minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS – 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group has authorized MP Aleksandar Martinovic to be an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group on this agenda point. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. As the promoter, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is not present, according to the Rules of Procedure, I do not address her with a proposal to take the floor. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13065	According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27th and 77th. First of all, a little bit about article 27 concerning you, the chairman. So, when you open a session, not a agenda point, and you see that someone is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's assumed that there's something to say that's most likely related to the procedure. What is often happening in the National Assembly is that people report on another basis and talk about something that is not about procedure, but about some material substance about something, referring to other members of the Rules of Procedure, such as members of 225 and 226, you cannot know in advance, you must give the people your word to find out. It is the first remark on you, because there is no deadline or in the Rules of Procedure when and at any point who should report everything to the Rules of Procedure and when not to. The other thing is to act as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so you who represent the President of Parliament here in the National Assembly should be informed of this, as well as the other MPs. In fact, a group of six MPs, which makes up more than one third of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, asked the chairman of the Committee to schedule a session for the morning, at 9.00 p.m., with a agenda point to discuss a little bit about the conduct of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, i.e. His violation of the Rules of Procedure, as we see it, the ones we signed. Maybe we're wrong, but it might be worth a little discussion. Article 77 The Rules of Procedure say that if the President of the Committee does not do so, even there stands cumulatively and within the time limit set, then they do so, and it is given alternatively, the Vice-President of the Committee or the President of the National Assembly. In that sense, regardless of what the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee has scheduled a session for tomorrow, at 11.00 p.m., the opposite of what we asked for, using his authority as set out in Article 77. Rules of Procedure, I've scheduled a board meeting for today at 13:45. I've alerted the service to do so, and I expect the services to carry out their duty and to do so for the day, at 13.45 p.m. So much for that. I also informed all members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who are present here, that the session with that agenda will be held today at 1345 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13066	There is no violation of article 27 in the part of your remark that you do not give your word until the session is open, because you have nothing to comment on because the session does not run. They remind me of what to say. I apologize, we say in Vojvodina – on what. So there's nothing to comment on since the session isn't running, so there can't even be any remarks about the procedure. The moment the session begins, that moment all those who wish to receive the word, and have the right to Article 100, the word and get what we are now and the witnesses. In the second part of your remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have told in your statement how the Rules of Procedure is respected, not broken. You filed a request, the session was scheduled, that is to use the capacity of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the members of the Committee and for the chairman of the Committee. The use of the capacity of the Rules of Procedure is also for you to schedule a session on behalf of other MPs and there is nothing of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it is in your intention to present it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, abuse of Rules of Procedure. I warn you that you respect Article 104 that you respect all of us here and that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic returned for his word of injury to the Rules of Procedure and received his word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13067	So, I think you're insulting the Rules of Procedure set out in this Rules of Procedure with your own words. One, and we're going from the end, from this last thing you said - you can't think that I'm violating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure offending the dignity of the National Assembly, or whatever it says, by presenting my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and what I think is a violation of that Rules of Procedure by other MPs, including you. It's really not normal, what you're saying. On the other hand, I did not point out that I was violating the Rules of Procedure, but pointed out that the MP, Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, was violating the Rules of Procedure, and that I had to do something myself to prevent the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I did and I informed the MPs. That part of course isn't calling for a violation, that's something I said by the way. When it comes to the session, as soon as you open the session, as soon as you start the exhibition, you can theoretically violate the Rules of Procedure. What if you started, instead of reading what's in front of you to talk about, say, Disney comics? Someone would have to answer the Rules of Procedure and say – Madam Chairman, it's really not normal to talk about it, we have something in front of you, some text in front of you and what must be part of the procedure. So you simply can't say that because you haven't opened the agenda point, that no one can call in to comment on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's really not right! I suggest you do. On the other hand, I'm undermining you again, in response to my remarks I made on the first call, you've been saying just as much as I'm saying right now, it's a minute and 45 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13068	People's MP, I have a duty to explain to you that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure if she is not present. It is an obligation that I respect, as it is written in the Rules of Procedure, and it would be good for us all to respect what it says in the Rules of Procedure. You cannot comment on an injury to a session procedure that has not begun. It's today's case. When the session began, you got the word and explained that you and I were different from when the session began. Fortunately, it says when the session began, so this is a kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, you've made the procedure for the board's appointment. Neither Parliamentarian Dragoljub Micunovic violated the Rules of Procedure in the procedure, nor did you violate the Rules of Procedure, nor did the President of the National Assembly violate the Rules of Procedure in the process of holding a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The second time I warn you, you are violating the Rules of Procedure by abuse of the right to receive word of violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then in your statement, not speaking of injury to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic is asking to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which he said in the day of his vote. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13069	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an injury. 104, 46 and 77, and I ask that the Parliament in the voting day declare that Dragoljub Micunovic, MP and chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have broken the Rules of Procedure and I will now explain why. Last week, we were invited on several occasions to attend meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with an advanced agenda. You are also a member, Mrs Comic, of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and you know that the first item of the agenda was – the establishment of the president in the groups of friendships in which MPs applied. The second point was – The National Assembly of Serbia delegations, among other things, to the regular winter session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As we are informed by the president of the National Assembly, Ms Slavice Djukic - Dejanovic, at the end of last week's work and session, that he is professor. Micunovic gave (this is what she told us orally, from that chair) an explanation that he interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia illegal and brought something in writing, which she did not want to read because she wanted an official document with his signature, which she herself told me as vice president. What happened after that? I insisted as vice-president of the Assembly and a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to receive an official memo to be signed by Dragoljub Micunovic, to see what his fantastic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is. The delegation participates in three or four years, as long as Professor Micunovic, and by the way, my assessment, while modest, is that you did not break something away from work there, but later on, we will talk about how you were abstained when the villains prepared a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, but let's face it, some British MPs voted against. How come a British man votes against, and you are restrained when it comes to the interests of Serbia?- I'm sorry. How come you don't discuss the consequences of the Russian-Georgian war and you don't care that we support Mr. Kosachev and the Russian delegation, and then you accidentally leave the room or you're not in the meeting at all? How come you're only a member of one committee, political, in the Council of Europe, and you're not even involved in the work of that committee? You told me when the SRS suggested that I work in four committees, in two as an active member, in two to be a deputy member, that it was too much burden on my weak shoulders. Now, you see how strong my shoulders are, and how weak yours are, because you're not doing anything for the interest of the state of Serbia that has delegated you there. You have sent a memo, which I will copy and share with the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which you personally inform, indeed, I will report later to the Rules of Procedure, unfounded, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as you have addressed here, the President of the Assembly, which is why we are not there today. The fact that we are not in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today is a disgrace to you who are in power: both for Boris Tadic, for Hope Kolundzija and for Dragoljub Micunović and for all of you here who support it! Just so you know, Mr Micunovic, your position is not supported by at least a third of the members of the ruling coalition (and are indeed with the most possible no regrets) because they represent the interests of Serbian citizens there, such as Miss Elvira Kovac, who belongs to a minority party, whom I want to praise this time, unlike you who have done nothing to protect Serbia's interests in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13070	I ask the Members of Parliament to carry out their statements on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure within three minutes prescribed. There are no injuries to any of those members. The chairman of the Committee did not violate the procedure in any of the steps in the appointment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Assembly will declare the injury in the day of the vote. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to speak, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 77 has been broken. Please don't count on me this time, since I'm going to quote him, "The Committee's session is being convened by the president of the Committee. The Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least a third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the Committee within the meaning of Article. 24th and 42nd of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. "Take care of this section: "If it does not do so within the required time limit, the session of the committee shall be convened by the Vice-President of the Committee or by the President of the National Assembly." Six members of the Foreign Affairs Committee requested that the session be held today at 9.00 a.m. Dragoljub Micunovic did not schedule a session and what he had right to do under the Rules of Procedure was done by the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Milos Aligrudic, and scheduled a session in 13.45 hours. It does not matter, it is important that Dragoljub Micunovic violates the Rules of Procedure. It says here very simple and understandable for every man – what to do and how to do. However, this shows your relationship with the Assembly and with the MPs, your will. The most important and important thing for you is your political interest. What do you care about the Parliament, what do you care about the Rules of Procedure, what does it say in the Rules of Procedure? You have a majority and you will vote everything you need and when you need it. What is your idea of democracy, especially Mr Micunovic, when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, he has shown it as the president of the SCG State Community Parliament. He then took a delegation to Strasbourg which in no way represented the parliament at the time, as no parties were represented in the delegation, the SRS was primarily not represented. Be careful, he took a delegation whose purpose is to represent parliament, and it writes - a relatively large number of MPs. The delegation should reflect this proportion of the number of MPs and to a greater extent gender equality, i.e. women within that delegation, but what does Mr Micunovic care about? He finished his job, set up a delegation, put on a plane -- and for Strasbourg. The fact that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is of no interest to you. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure now, too, and you're not interested. But, Mr. Micunovic, I don't think it's appropriate for you, to say, before the end of your political career in this way, you will remain recorded as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'm sorry about this time-out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13072	There's no injury to the members you listed in your presentation. Full capacity of the Rules of Procedure for the appointment of the Committee's session was used. The board president has scheduled a session tomorrow. MPs who want a session of the Committee, which is their right, believe it should be held today. I ask you to seriously approach such a serious institution as a breach of procedure, because there is no injury to the procedure here. I would ask you not to replace technical and procedural issues for political issues, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions that bind us – how we will use Article 100. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13073	So, like this, I didn't want to react. This is a really technical issue right now. It's nothing to do with politics. We'll do politics later. There's time for that all day. You can't say - the president of the Committee has scheduled a session tomorrow, in 11.00 hours, and those who asked for a session wanted something different and to stop what you're talking about. The fact is that I am in the capacity of Vice President of the Committee, based on Article 77. The Rules of Procedure, scheduled a session for today, at 13:45, which the services notified by telephone to the MPs, and the call will soon arrive. So, the service's already sending that call to 13.45. You can't misread what's been said here. So, I'm asking you to stay focused and run your business properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13074	Unfortunately for all those who abuse the regulations of the Rules of Procedure, I am completely focused. So you asked on behalf of six MPs to hold a session today at 9.00, which is to use the capacity of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee president scheduled the session for tomorrow at 11.00, using the capacity of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Six MPs seeking a session were scheduled, again using the capacity of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for today, at 13:45. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, except that I give you my word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So it's about your abuse of procedure. I ask you to take care of that when we use the Rules of Procedure's rights. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13075	According to Article 27, again. What do I do? You can't point to my breach of procedure, when I claim that you insult the procedure. It's my interpretation of what I've heard from you and it's my right to react to it. It's your right to tell me I'm wrong. It is my right to request that this be made known to the Assembly in the day of the vote. It's all very simple. Your objection – that I violate the Rules of Procedure by reporting to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part within the meaning of Article 27, is absolutely inappropriate and should be a disgrace to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13076	Once again, you got the word without explaining why you got the word. It's our common violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic is looking for a replica. You can't get a replica, because I don't have an exposure. (Milos Aligrudic: I want to see the Rules of Procedure.) ) You can get a word in the Rules of Procedure when I explain to you why you are wrong about the previous presentation. So, if a word is given under Article 100(1) of the procedure, then the chairman is obliged to explain whether or not there has been or has been no injury to the procedure. Several times you received a word in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and you never proved it, nor explained that there was an injury procedure. The relationship between the MP and the chairman is such that the chairman has an obligation to explain whether there has been an injury to the procedure and no MP. The MP wants to speak because he thinks there's been an injury to the procedure. If we have pointed out the same breach of the Rules of Procedure three times, then every further insistence on repeating the same injury we have searched is unnecessary – you in pointing out the injury, me in explaining, violating the procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13077	Thank you. If you take a later look at the stenographic notes of what we have been saying over the past 10 minutes, you will find that I have never pointed out the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure for the same reasons. I pointed out the violation of Article 27, which is a general member, referring to the session's management, but every time for other reasons, I came out for the reasons that you gave me in the way of your presentation and addressing me as a National MP. So much for that, I wouldn't further explain, respecting everything else you said. Of course, the only thing I'm asking for right now is for these violations of the Rules of Procedure, which I have pointed out, to the Assembly to be declared in the voting day, so let's see who's right, and it's known that most of them will definitely vote that I was wrong. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13078	In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare the objections of MP Milos Aligrudic in each of the cases where he wanted to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and received the word on the basis of Article 100(1). National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 239, where it is said that the National Assembly decides to determine the composition of a permanent delegation for participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, etc. I would like to point out one fact that has become a rule when it comes to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to the DS. To point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure and the conduct of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Dragoljub Micunovic, most of them are silent, DS is silent, they are not interested at all – yes, it is true that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, but we have the majority and what we care about. We will decide in the voting day that there have been no violations of the Rules of Procedure and the matter has been completed. Mr. Micunovic, just to remind the Serbian Parliament, is one of the few, if not the only president they voted on, most of whom he was from, that he violated the Rules of Procedure. It was expected from a man who had a minimum of some moral credibility, he remembers that Mr. Batic was supposed to resign afterwards. Imagine that some judge broke the law. Could that man stay where he is? However, this meant absolutely nothing to Mr. Micunovic. Please, the Assembly decided by majority votes, not only by opposition MPs, but also by the ruling majority MPs, I voted that Professor Micunovic violated the Rules of Procedure! As if nothing had happened, Professor Micunovic continued to lead the assembly. And those are the problems we're facing. The second problem, you see, why don't you go out for a pay phone and say that our delegation should have been voted within six months of the time that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established. Why didn't you do it? Same thing when it's in the path and the budget. Instead of passing it as the law requires the government to adopt it as the law requires, on November 1st, you did December 7th. You remember the Law on travel documents, you accused the MPs of the opposition again, the obstruction of the Assembly, etc. And you brought him in a minute to 12, and that's thanks to the understanding of the opposition party MPs, because you're incompetent, you're only interested in incidents that you're causing with your behavior to accuse the opposition MPs. Why didn't you call a session in time to set up delegations? No, you are waiting again for the start of the Council of Europe meeting and there you find an excuse – here, the opposition again, among them the SRS, is preventing delegations from being determined. That's really amazing. In doing so, the president of the ZES Group, Nada Kolundzija, says -- I will be pushing for the representatives of the SRS not to be in the delegation. Please, does that make any sense? Is there any elemental concept of democracy?- I'm sorry. If they asked me, I wouldn't agree to be DS representatives, but it's not mine, it doesn't depend on my opinion and my perception, Mrs. Kolundjia. Read what should be a delegation of each Assembly, so you will understand what you have told the press and the public. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the time-out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13080	People's MP, no harm done to article 239. The material for today's session was made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and when the debate of the vice-presidents of parliamentary groups or by the registered speakers begins, then we can talk about solutions or the way it came, and in accordance with Article 239, we can propose delegations for parliamentary institutions. The truth works, on 22 September 2008, the president of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, for the first time asked for the agreement and agreement of the president of all parliamentary groups to, in accordance with Article 239, form a new delegation, including a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because it is true that six months after the election of the delegations from the previous one, it loses its legitimacy to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And in one of the following cases, the president of the National Assembly asked that an agreement be made and a decision be made on delegations, in two moments, when we had a selection of board members at the meetings, that point could not be made on the agenda, because there was no political agreement among the presidents of the parliamentary groups on the composition of the delegation. I fully agree with you that this is a common problem and that it is unforgivable that we are late with a decision on delegations in parliamentary institutions, but we are, it is a reality. We are not late because no one remembered, but because it was not possible to reach a political agreement on the composition of delegations for the parliamentary institutions of the organisation in Europe and the world. The People's MP, Verice Radet, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 104 and 221, and in relation to Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Last week, the KIM Community Assembly concluded, among other conclusions, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is required that Oliver Ivanovic be removed from the post of State Secretary at the KIM Ministry for his personal appearances in the public, when it comes to the interests of the Serbs at KIM. Meanwhile, another scandal took place, another scandalous statement by Oliver Ivanovic, who told the media that Belgrade's negotiations with Pristina on KIM status would only be renewed once Serbia joins the EU. He said media quoted earlier as saying that Serbia's position would be far better and that the EU would treat us with more respect once we become a full member of the Union. What Oliver Ivanovic said, we heard from this place, a similar statement from a fellow member of the ruling coalition. The lady, a folk MP, said Serbia should also talk to Pristina when it comes to KIM problems. It is obvious that he is trying to push through the the thesis in public, to examine the pulse of Serbian citizens, MPs, primarily opposition MPs, and to introduce Pristina at a small door as a negotiator with Belgrade in resolving the KIM problem. So it is obvious that the KIM Community Assembly was absolutely right when it asked Oliver Ivanovic to be removed from the state secretary's post. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask you, Mrs Comic, to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for an answer – is what Oliver Ivanovic says the official position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? If so, the Government of the Republic of Serbia draws from these powers, since the Assembly has brought a resolution that is completely contrary to it. And if that is not the official position of the government, then the question is – what will the Prime Minister do with the initiative to replace Oliver Ivanovic, as apparently an unworthy representative of the Serb people from KIM, from the post of State Secretary. I'm sorry about the time-out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13082	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13083	Mrs. Comic, a member of the Rules of Procedure, 1st and 104 has been injured due to the incorrect interpretation and memo sent to the president of the Assembly by Dragan Micunovic, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In fact, just now, when my cell phone rang, I came out, as a colleague from a friendly country, who is a parliamentary speaker at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, asked me if he was in the Council of Europe building, and will we see each other today at 14.00 a.m. on the Committee in which we are participating together? That's what I'm telling you because of the fact that he's a professor. Micunovic lied and deceived both the Assembly and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, given the fact that our legitimacy is complete today at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and that this colleague is surprised that he will not see me today at 14.00 p.m., so one morning at 8.30 a.m., a colleague on another committee will be surprised. It is not funny, Mr Milivojevic, but unfortunately, that today Serbia is not in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and that, by misusing the position of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in a letter, which I will read to you, Professor. Micunovic deceived the president of the assembly, hence all of you. In fact, since this morning, we should have been legitimately involved and working on the agenda points. The first item of the agenda is accreditation, regular annual accreditation. This has nothing to do with changes in the composition of delegations, if they happened in the meantime, where elections were held. Last year, from members of the Council of Europe, except in Serbia, elections took place in Russia, Moldova, Georgia, Macedonia, Armenia and Monaco. It is not true that we have run out of legitimacy, and the deadline for the application has expired, as is usual, but the president of the Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic Assembly, by letter, informed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the composition of our delegation for this time, on January 26th. Why aren't we there?- I'm sorry. Because of Dragoljub Micunović, because of Hope Kolundzija, because of you from DS! Why can't we do our jobs today - to protect the interests of the Serbian state in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Why have you made it impossible for me and all other colleagues to be responsible for our work today, as we do, unlike Dragoljub Micunović? Because then he realized that he was comfortable with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of course, at the very least, because, Mr Micunovic, if you were now in the Council of Europe building and had entered, as you did not, at the Bureau or the parliamentary group you belong to, no one would stop you at the door with that accreditation you have and you could normally pass and go to the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because it stands there, and in the meantime, I will check your name in a place where you usually sit and all the members of the delegation. This is a disgrace to Serbia, but a disgrace to you from the DS. Don't accuse us of Serbian radicals. We wanted to work today, and it is your fault that, in the meantime, within six months, no new delegation has been elected, and today we were able to participate equally with other colleagues in the Council of Europe and to protect the interests of the Serbian state. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) It is obvious that you are simply not going to protect the interests of the Serbian people and of all citizens of Serbia, and let it serve you. I ask the Assembly to make a statement on this, because you have deceived both Parliament and the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13084	I pray that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will declare the violation of Article 104, by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13085	Also, I think member 104 has been broken. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It was broken by the entire parliamentary majority, but let's say it was the most guilty, unfortunately for me, not present right now, the President of Parliament, because she was the one who gave in to one man's vanity. Vanity is the devil's favorite sin! What Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic did, he only did for that reason. Today, Serbia has no representative, no one has attended a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. A political committee is being held today, with a Swedish MP reporting on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and a resolution will be adopted on this basis, and no one from Serbia is there. During that time, Kosovo's army was formed under another name. The president of the Republic says that 2,000 light-armed people and not some army, do not pose a security risk to Serbia. Right, not now, but if we continue this way -- that we are not in all the forums where we talk around the world, among other things, about Kosovo and Metohija, if we continue to do things wrong here and accept EULEX, and they form, right after that, the army of Kosovo, and then the courts, prosecutors and customs?- I'm sorry. Of course, if the U.S. officers are training that army for that time, what do you think will be next? Well, of course he'll buy them tanks, of course he'll get them a baby car, well, of course he'll buy them artillery, well, of course he'll buy them planes, so are we gonna think about whether they're a security risk to Serbia or not?- I'm sorry. But while the vain people rule this Parliament and while others listen to them, of course we will continue to be in this situation, because you are incompetent, you are unable to bring the budget, you are unable to respond to the economic crisis, you are unable to defend Kosovo, you are unable to vote the delegation, and there are also vain among you. What does Serbia expect of all this, but only this? Article 104. He's a businessman and he's hurt. You can vote on it, I demand that the President of Parliament be voted on by the Rules of Procedure. He should have insisted that the delegation go. Her letter of notice was enough. You vote the other way around. That way, you will also show how much you care for Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13086	There is no violation of Article 104, nor has there been an explanation for the injury, and the Assembly will declare whether or not the injured member is 104. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13087	Mrs. Komic, I call on article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe that the President of the National Assembly and anyone chairing the National Assembly's session, and on this issue on the agenda, above all I mean the first item of the proposed agenda, has committed a serious violation not only of the Constitution, but of the Rules of Procedure. This is not a technical violation of the organisation of this job, but another immeasurable contribution from those who rule in the Republic of Serbia to creating general confusion in political life in the Republic of Serbia. As the negative processes occur in the Republic of Serbia, in the environment, someone cares about causing and maintaining and controlling conflicts in the National Assembly, which is quite losing its legitimacy. We have an orchestrated campaign of attacks by the media, we have a situation to avoid debates in the National Assembly on the existential issues of this people. Just remember the issues of voting the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. She was skillfully avoided from being on the agenda of the National Assembly, and then we learned that the government had called for Eulex. Of course, the next day immediately began to complain that Eulex did not respect the rules of the UN and that it allowed uninterrupted development and consolidation of the position, allegedly independent Kosovo state. From these previous statements on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, anyone reasonable can conclude that the president of the National Assembly, probably in a coalition with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, has done this disgusting act that, practically, there is no one for Serbia to represent in international organisations, where it is also necessary to hear a Serbian voice about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think it's just enough to say -- let it serve someone's honor, but that we also have to apply more rigorous measures in Parliament, because someone is causing a crisis, maintaining a crisis, controlling a crisis, the crisis in Parliament is spreading and becoming a crisis throughout society. It must end with this illegal status, an illegal state in the National Assembly. A lot of requests have been waiting a long time. The initiative to form new delegations, to elect new MPs to represent us in international organisations, has long been on the table. Why isn't it solved? Why are not all the problems of today’s debate and today’s session solved? It's someone's interest to maintain a crisis, to maintain conflicts, to disrupt political life, so that in that darkness and in that fungi, someone can do the dirtiest jobs. Of course, by assignment from abroad, in association with someone from this country. I ask you to establish in the voting day and vote that the president of the National Assembly, the Presidency of the National Assembly, has committed a serious violation of Article 27, and has violated the elemental interests of the Serb people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13088	There were no injuries to Article 27. The president of the National Assembly called for this session and prepared the material for this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and acted on international institutions and international organisations to comply with the obligation, according to the regulations of these international organisations and institutions. Agreeing with you, as well as with MP Dragan Todorovic, that the National Assembly did not do this job, I repeat, on September 22nd, the president of the National Assembly called on the presidents of the parliamentary groups to begin consultations, in a desire to make a decision on delegations in the parliamentary institutions of Europe and the world, and unfortunately, because of the lack of political arrangements, this did not take place. A decision is necessary on who represents this assembly after the elections, and that, I think, is clear to all. The National Assembly will declare its violation of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13089	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, Mrs Comic, since you insist on saying the opposite of what we are saying, as well as the former head of our delegation, Mr Milos Aligrudic, who has been safely and responsibly working in the interests of the Serbian and Serbian people, as well as us MPs of the SRS, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the basis of Rules and Articles 226, I am asking you, as chairman, since the President of the Assembly is not presently here, to inform us that I am on an official journey abroad, and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to contact our mission in Strasbourg today, our embassy, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and to provide us with information on our legitimacy. I insist, as is true, and given the fact that, as well as my other colleagues, I have received an invitation to participate in today's session, is it true, and the work of the committee, that we today have been uninterrupted, as all week long, able to work, regardless of what you missed, and that is your fault and DS, that in the past six months you have chosen a delegation that is from this new calling. So that there is no confusion so as not to deceive the public, especially Hope Kolundji, how radicals prevent it and how we are responsible that we are not there today, we wanted to be, we have full legitimacy and we regret that we cannot take part in the debate, and we are today, this day, and all week long, legitimate representatives of this state, as members of the delegation. We also wanted to talk about the work of the International Criminal Court, given that the president of that court addresses the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and that we are talking about the crimes committed against the Serbian people, as well as this latest Ustasha lawsuit against our country and our people that survived such genocide in the last country war. We wanted to talk and ask questions to Mr. Zapater, the Prime Minister of Spain, because they have the same problem as we have with our southern province and to act, through the Council of Europe, the illegal recognition of the Cypriot state. We wanted to talk about the consequences of the war between Russia and Georgia and help the Russian delegation in case there were, and we were informed, an amendment to one of the two proposed resolutions. counterpart Elvira Kovac wanted to speak as a representative of our parliament tomorrow, about the needs of people with disabilities and about help, about the resolution, in that sense. We wanted to talk about how to improve democracy, because in Serbia, obviously, because there are such points of the agenda, there is no democracy under DS. You have made it impossible for us, Dragoljub Micunovic, by sending this letter which is not based on the facts to the National Assembly President and therefore asking that, during today's day, the competent authorities and you as chairman, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, be officially informed of the status of Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Todorovic, Vjerice Radite... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Elvira Kovac, Željko Ivanjia, Natasa Vukkovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Jovanovic and all others who are legitimate and only legitimate representatives of this country. And that someone's throwing that somewhere, something, some other time, but the question is when, and I never believe it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13090	National MPs, bodies and organisations responsible for delegations are this assembly. National MP Slobodan Samardzic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13091	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, reporting for an article. 225th and 226th, and I would like to ask a question and ask the President of the National Assembly or the Vice President who replaced it – did she get the conclusions of the Community Assembly held in Mitrovica last Thursday? I am asking this because at the sixth point of these conclusions there is an invitation from the Community Assembly to hold its session in Mitrovica on 17 February this year, together with the Community Assembly of the municipalities. On the importance of such a session of the Kosovo Assembly, I think you are all aware. It is now important to make timely preparations, which means that the congregation would already today, i.e. Her presidency was supposed to start preparing a session like this. It is possible to maintain an agreement among the MPs' clubs on this. This is very important because of the continuity of our policy in Kosovo, but it is also important that we do not sin and embarrass ourselves in front of the Serbs in KIM, which we did, and I must return to the occasion of this session, by not sending a delegation of this assembly to the SE in Strasbourg. It had to be done for the state, of course, but primarily because of people in Kosovo who watch very carefully what the state is doing in their interest, both in the country and abroad. Swedish Parliamentarian Von Sidou was to make a report on Kosovo, based on which one resolution would be drafted and not to be harmful, but an invaluable mistake that our parliamentarians are not there. My first question is – how are the preparations for February 17th and the departure of this assembly to Mitrovica? The second request is that, as soon as possible today, we already have some suggestions, consolidate and that the delegation, even if late, goes to Strasbourg and corrects this huge mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13092	National MP, the answer I can now give you is that the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic personally delivered those conclusions to the National Assembly and that the request is in the procedure. The secretary will notify when he arrives formally, through the office, and on the organisation and on further progress, if I have conveyed well. The national envoy, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to speak. Since you're mentioned, you have the right to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13093	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ever since we started working, for an hour now, there's obviously been a discrepancy in opinions, whether our delegation to the Council of Europe was supposed to appear there today, whether it has legitimacy, whether it has accreditation or not. In the opinion of the SRS MPs, and we also see DSS MPs, these accreditations are not questionable, which is actually the essence of the matter, until the president of the Assembly informs the Council of Europe that the delegation is in another composition. She didn't do it. On the contrary, she sent a letter with the same delegation that has been in the Council of Europe Assembly so far and I think it is only the will of Mr Micunovic, who, of course, is doing what the congregation majority is asking for, that we are not present there today and that we do not have the opportunity to talk about such important issues, which will be on the agenda, express our position and lady, in the end, our voice. I'm sure you'll tell which member I'm calling for, in accordance with the article. In 225 and 226, I think the Foreign Ministry could help us and give us an answer to that question, not to judge you as chairman, that we wouldn't be fighting over it here, and that's competent in that matter, who's right? Remember, we had various situations here, in one term while Mr. Predrag Markovic was president of the Assembly, he himself, without the Parliament's decision, submitted a motion for delegations to all those international institutions. That's when we boycotted. We did not take part in these institutions, because we felt that this was an illegal act and that they needed to be represented, according to all the rules required, MPs of the opposition and positions, the principle of gender equality, national equality and that they were practically representing the state of Serbia in those institutions, especially in the Council of Europe Assembly. There's a chance that's what we're talking about here. It took three months, but unfortunately it doesn't matter to you at all. I would ask a question, because of this behaviour, Mr. Micunovic, forgive me for your age, you have traveled a lot especially while you were president of the SCG National Assembly, but at this point you have proved unworthy to perform such a high function, especially for ignoring all the other members of your board. Mrs. Comic called at least two calls, as far as I know, to the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and she knows very well how the job is done. You believe that you are the Committee on Foreign Affairs, not all those people who are representatives of the parliamentary groups. I think the issue should also be raised on the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13094	People's MPs, it is my duty to answer your question of the information you asked for. Parliamentary delegations are the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The foreign ministry is a service for providing data on relations with the host country, on the history of relations with the Council of Europe, if that is all it is or generally about economic, political and any other co-operation and information the Foreign Ministry has. It would be very obvious that this assembly would not be given the authority to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to tell us when the accreditation of the parliamentary delegation, which this assembly represents, or when the mandate ends, and when it is necessary for the President or President of the Assembly to deliver with the list of members of the delegations the Assembly's decision on their election, amendments and additions, to confirm the previous or in any other way. You have asked a question as a People's Parliament and you will ask that question on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. On behalf of the National Assembly, I will not question the reputation of this institution, asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what the job is, the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13095	Mrs. Comic, I think you and I are completely equal. You are the Messenger of the people, I am the Messenger of the people. I'm allowing you to be maybe something smarter, maybe more educated, maybe have more information. I'm letting you think I'm stupid, that I'm under-informed, and that's why, I guess, in the Rules of Procedure, there's that article. 225 and 226. I, Gordana Pop-Lazic, ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer me – is our delegation in the current assembly of delegations that have accreditation and which today could appear in the Council of Europe Assembly and would not be returned? They know that because they are exactly the service of that delegation in Strasbourg. Don't ask. You must know, but I don't know, so I ask them to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13096	You can ask the question in writing and deliver it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The National Assembly will not ask the Foreign Ministry about their affairs. I ask you to understand very carefully what you are looking for, that on behalf of the National Assembly, chairing it as an official request. The foreign ministry is the service of this institution. The composition of these delegations is due to a political agreement between the president of parliamentary clubs and political parties in the Assembly. The Department of Foreign Affairs can think of that composition whatever they want. The foreign ministry is required to serve information on the subject of work in Strasbourg, Brussels, for any delegation travelling anywhere. We will not ask the foreign ministry whether our Assembly is able or unable to elect a delegation and whether our delegation has or does not have a mandate. It is your right to appoint, and it is my personal duty to safeguard the dignity of this congregation. This is the only reason why it will not be in normal form sent on behalf of the National Assembly, but you will ask this question on the Committee or in writing personally. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I appeal to Article 226. I sincerely respect your way of leading the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is undeniable that you are making a huge effort to keep the work of the Serbian Parliament in line with the Rules of Procedure. Try always to make a contribution by explaining or explaining, giving your opinion about the Rules of Procedure, and whether or not I agree with it at some point, I appreciate and respect the way you work. There are sometimes situations where I simply cannot stay without putting a public remark on how you interpret the Rules of Procedure. Article 226 (don't count on me) says: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies... "The foreign ministry is one of the most important ministries, but it is not excluded from this member of the Rules of Procedure. It is subject to the same rules as all ministries. Therefore, the MP, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, rightly asks to be explained to her. He's looking for information. That, may you not, may not, do you in any other way avoid delivering these questions to the foreign ministry, I must say, may be your personal problem or party problem. Mrs. Komic, remember that a month and a half ago we protested here against the way the English ambassador behaves in Serbia, who gave himself the right to comment on political parties, that he assesses them and that he says in any way – this party should, these MPs should or should not... Look, it's clear to me now that, according to the Foreign Ministry, there's some kind of blockade and it's a complete blockade, a month and a half, we haven't received an answer, and we've only asked for one thing, to tell us what our foreign ministry is going to do about it. Please, Mrs. Comic, I'm sure if it happened in any country in the world, that this ambassador would not stay seven days, at the top of his head, in the country, to be a persona non grata and to end his career. Here, we haven't received an answer from the Foreign Ministry in a month and a half if anything's been done. I'm sure they haven't done anything yet, because they can't. How can the Serbian Foreign Ministry in any way ask a question... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I end, English or American ambassador, when they actually put this government together. That government depends on them. How do they ask these questions? That should be made clear and loud to the citizens of Serbia. It is a problem facing both our government and this Assembly and citizens of Serbia. As long as that situation is, unfortunately, from this country, there will be nothing! I'm sorry for this overrun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13098	According to your request, today I ask that a stenogram of your presentation be delivered concerning the requirement of conduct, and after a statement by one of the ambassadors, formerly, in Belgrade and that an explanation be given of why it is late, because it is a matter of the foreign ministry's jurisdiction. Delegations are not the subject of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The power of delegations to decide on the composition of all delegations shall be exclusive to the National Assembly, exclusive jurisdiction and any ministry shall address you with that answer. The composition of delegations, the agreement on delegations, the mandate of delegations, is exclusive to the competence of the National Assembly. Please, I really ask that we all participate together in defending the reputation and jurisdiction of our joint institution, because we are responsible for it. The foreign ministry is the service of all delegations. He cannot comment on what the Assembly was doing in political agreements on delegations, he cannot comment and give you answers on anything, because he is not responsible for parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're in charge, we've got a problem, and we're gonna solve this problem. National MP Dragan Todorovic. My apologies, MP Milos Aligrudic, reports that he is talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13099	I'm reporting on article 27, and everything I'm about to say later actually explains your violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, if someone wants to forward the question to a ministry, it is not said in the Rules of Procedure that you as chairman are competent to interpret whether or not the question is founded or not and what kind of response the ministry will give. Maybe the Ministry will give you exactly the answer you just gave us. But it's the right of the MP to ask, it's yours to record it, to realize it and move on. You have again lost a minute and a half by explaining to the MPs that someone has no right to ask a question and what kind of response the ministry will possibly come up with. What's this about? The key question here is, when someone proposes unauthorized, without the decision of the National Assembly's committee, not to go to Strasbourg for the reason that our delegation is allegedly illegal, and that it is allegedly not going to be certified as a mandate in Strasbourg, then it is natural to ask whether it is true or not. And that's something we're going to discuss anyway, which on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which here, when we really, really look forward to, starts a debate on the agenda, because that's about the subject. So we'll know that, it's not a problem, and we'll know it faster and easier the next way. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, sent a letter to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on two occasions asking that the current assembly of the delegation be taken and verified in the Parliamentary Assembly, as the National Assembly has not yet chosen a new delegation. That's a fact. Why not, it has nothing to do with the DSS, because four months ago, we insisted that Parliament's President and Hope Kolundji have this issue removed from the agenda and that the delegation be elected. Why wasn't she chosen? Because of the inability of the ruling coalition to solve internal problems in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this has been related both to the work of the board and to the changes in committees, and to the RIK composition, therefore, not only to this matter. Now the question of political opportunity is raised to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, let this not be an explanation but an explanation of my opinion, and the explanation can only be given by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. My opinion is that according to what I heard from them and at a meeting that I had in August with Mate Sorinas, therefore, their opinion is that we only need an act of notice on who is representing the Assembly, and that the internal matter of the Republic of Serbia, that is, this Parliament, is how it will happen. What we fully agree on, let's say, I guess, the DSS and the rest of the parliament, which there is no dispute about, is that it can only come from elections in the National Assembly, so that's not the problem. The question of political opportunity is raised. What are we going to do if, because of the incompetence of the ruling coalition, there is no election in time, will we allow the discontinuity, which the Parliamentary Assembly is ready to forgive us, and the failure to participate in important forums that defend the interests of the state? That's what the basic question is, and that's obviously what is being ignored, in order to put out political conflicts first, and that one, for example, the DS Parliamentary Group, would be calculated with the SRS, in order to solve the problem of mandate and other things. If that's the point and they're blocking it... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I end up, of what business states are in an international organization of this guy who is important to us, then, it's a great honor to you masters! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13100	There is no violation of Article 27, I am obliged to apply it in each case and thank you for your explanation, because you have made strict facts. The Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is requesting a list of delegations, i.e. the composition of a delegation, and the way in which the name occurred on that list is not of interest to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. They want a delegation that is accepted and accredited to comply with their rules and that implies gender equality, i.e. certain representation of women in the delegation. The delegation that has so far represented Serbia is a delegation that must have been decided in the Assembly whether it is still Serbia and we agree with that. The decision has not been made, the responsibility can be determined by debate, by calling for violations of the Rules of Procedure or by a debate that begins with the application for the word, but the decision has not been made and that is the only reason why the delegation in any assembly is currently not in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 27, 104 and 226. Mrs. Komic, unless you interpret this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I will ultimately ask you a personal question. First of all, I would agree here with the presentation of Mr Milos Aligrudic, who said the internal matter of the Serbian Parliament is to elect a delegation of the Council of Europe and that the Council of Europe only needs to deliver an act on the election of a delegation, that the delegation is represented by you and those MPs of the Serbian Parliament. But before that act, we need to do something that involves selecting a delegation. You just said in your statement who is the authority to make the choice, it's the only Serbian Parliament. I ask the question – how do you estimate that during the past two times, the delegation was composed solely by Dragoljub Micunovic, the president of the Assembly, once the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, chaired by Dragoljub Micunovic. Regardless of some attributes related to Dragoljub Micunovic, the father of democracy, etc., there is something you just said, which I agree with, that no delegation can be elected unless Parliament has chosen it. The second time that happened again, I repeat, when Predrag Markovic, president of the Serbian Parliament, also appointed a delegation and sent the act to the Council of Europe. They do not consider whether it is done as recommended by the Council of Europe – that the delegation be a reflection of Parliament, that the number of MPs should be represented roughly percentageally both by the position and by the opposition, with the possibility that in every way possible women should try to be represented as much as possible. We have a situation here that two presidents did. Now I ask your opinion – how to behave in this situation, how to assess what Mr. Micunović did and what Predrag Markovic did. Both represented the current ruling majority and the previous ruling majority. Mrs. Komic, explain when it is okay and how to form any delegation, especially when it comes to the Council of Europe. I'd like you to explain that to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13102	Parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for all parliamentary institutions and organisations, and in particular for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to which we are members and which we are obliged, are the only international institutions where we have mutual obligations, in 2009, we will have such obligations for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and with the EU, the Partnership, therefore, parliamentary delegation is formed on the basis of the percentage participation of all parliamentary groups, i.e. parties participating in the work of the Assembly. It is good practice, then, that on the composition of that delegation, the entire Assembly, the whole Parliament, because it is understood that we agree that we are all representing ourselves in international organisations and institutions. Serbia has had difficulties drawing up parliamentary delegations for the past eight years, but mistakes have been made in each of its mandates. For parliamentary delegations of the SRJ Assembly, and then the SCG state union, I don't know the details, I know their rules of procedure which was and passed, but I really don't know the details because I was never a member of the Assembly. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must have a representative delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, drawn up in proportion to all parliamentary groups and parties represented in Parliament, and according to the procedure of our Rules of Procedure. It's a decision we're missing that today's delegation to any group would be in Strasbourg. Knowing that everyone is capable, experienced MPs, I am absolutely certain that our delegation will make up for it in the future. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13103	Because the issue compensates for something that was missed in Strasbourg has the following meaning, I haven't been able to speak of it for a little while, because the time of three minutes has elapsed, let's say, if Mr Micunovic were right and if Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's statement, on Friday, if we didn't have a delegation in Strasbourg interpreted as the will of the National Assembly that no one represented us would be discounted in the affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly, and that would mean that people who are on committees, who rotate on parliamentary groups, are losing the right to participate in them, even if we chose a delegation today. That means we'd have to wait a year and a half to join these committees. The same goes for those who were in the parliamentary groups' chairs in the Council of Europe, which means that in committees and in certain bodies that previously discuss the agenda for anything that comes to the agenda, we do not have representatives. This means that we would have to drag people by the sleeve, go after committees where we don't have the right to vote, beg the chairman to give us a word in order to persuade the MPs in a situation where we can't take part in the appropriate decision, the appropriate proposal, and we would have to wait for some time. In fact, the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe for certain committees and groups of political groups, through which the agenda and agenda are discussed and lobbying for the interests of the state, is such that it does not automatically achieve membership. Any interaction, any interruption, the empty space is filled with those on the waiting list. It is good when a state has a larger delegation, so that more people are on the waiting list from different groups and that this gap or that the crack in non-presence, in unhappiness in groups, is as small as possible in the group's presidency. In this case, if it turns out that the Parliamentary Assembly has no intention today to verify the mandates of these people who thought they were going, then there would be this discontinuity and this huge and difficult consequences. It just means that we would be prevented from working in a significant future in an unfettered way in favour of the state of the Republic of Serbia. If it had happened quite differently, if these mandates had been verified, it would have proved that Mr. Micunovic was wrong and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that her letter produced an effect, and that we are completely in vain today in Belgrade, instead of protecting the interests of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija on the political committee. Whatever these two things are, whatever these two things happen, shows that we are in a nasty sauce and it turns out that we are in that sauce because of the ruling coalition's decision, because of your arrogant attitude, because of your disrespect for the rules of the game and your inability to solve internal problems in the National Assembly in order to get things done regularly and in time.- I'm sorry. That's the essence of the story. No one else can be responsible for this from those who have assumed the ruling majority's responsibility and claim to have 126 MPs in Parliament. You need to know that, and I had to say this for the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13104	There is no violation of Article 27, I only gave information to MP Slobodan Samardzic, to give information that a letter has arrived today officially in the office of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, so the procedure will take place after you have asked what is the matter with the notice. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13105	I hope that the Parliament in the voting day will be in a position to decide on who carried out the approval of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whether the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, who are changing it from time to time, and on this issue which is item number one on today's agenda. I think the obligation to care for the application of the Rules of Procedure to this 1st item of the agenda has been violated, and I would point to some material errors. You have a lot of these material mistakes today, Mrs. Comic, I don't know what it is. The first mistake is that we are not members of the Council of Europe for eight years, we have been members of the Council of Europe since 2003. Just to remind you, from the point of view of the Council of Europe, there was a big precedent, it did not happen that some country would become a member of the Council of Europe at which it was at that moment a state of emergency. This happened with us, during the three months of emergency in the Republic of Serbia, we were admitted to the Council of Europe and it is a very specific gesture. Secondly, as regards the election of our MPs and representatives, not only in the Council of Europe but also in all other representative bodies, and there in the West they are called as parliamentary assemblies of any international organisation, determining by the Republic of Serbia who will represent us as Parliament is not a matter of good practice, but is a matter governed by Article 239 of our Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that a decision is made in the National Assembly and, clearly, that any political party represented legally in the National Assembly must be represented proportionally. Later in all these parliamentary institutions, as an example of the Council of Europe, all of our delegates and our MPs are divided into parliamentary groups in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so some groups of peoples, other groups of Socialists, are there you, Mrs Comic, or DS, have groups and liberals. Remember last year that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic spoke about the need for someone from the LDP, regardless of the percentage of participation, to be present for the option to be represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. These are the rules of parliamentaryism. Unfortunately, the rules of parliamentaryism are not respected in Serbia. Mrs. Komic, I must remind you, you initiated in the summer of 2006, with Mrs. Suzana Grubjesic, that Predrag Markovic wrote a letter to determine the composition of our delegation, because you two expressed dissatisfaction, it is beneath you to be in a delegation with someone who is also proposed to be a member of the delegation. Maybe I'm expressing dissatisfaction, too, and I may be disgusted with being in the same delegation as someone else, but I don't have the right to be that kind of disgust. In the voting day, please put this issue to the vote – has the President of the National Assembly violated the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, the custody provision on the application of the Rules of Procedure? You can see how many material errors you've made yourself by explaining, justifying this illegal status.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13106	There is no violation of article 27 in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. When I talked about good practice, I wasn't talking about the process of preparing material, but about voting, that it was a good practice for delegation committees to speak unanimously, because this is our joint decision. Of course, it can't be a business request to anyone. You are right, we have been in the Council of Europe since 3 April 2003, but the question I have been asked is not only the Council of Europe, but even a delegation of the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13107	Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my obligation as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but in the second session, to explain what their rules of procedure is. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe does not enter into the way in which our delegation is elected at all and whether it will be elected unanimously or by a majority of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but is bound by Rule 239, of our Rules of Procedure. Their rules of procedure require us to be proportionate to the representation of parties who won the post-election mandates and to respect the less-represented gender, in this case women. Now we're going back to the story of what it was like with us. So, Mrs Pop-Lazic mentioned the case of Predraga Markovic, who, acting in such business provisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, sent a letter in which a gentleman who deals with accreditation and Secretary-General Terry Davis, who Hope Kolundžija did not know the name of the Secretary General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, informed that the National Assembly delegation was the one and that. We Serbian radicals boycotted, out of the protest that he did by violating our Rules of Procedure, Rule 239, and we didn't go there. What happened when we voted this delegation that I claim to be legitimate today, because we got calls and we can do as much tomorrow, if one of us leaves, to get in normally with our accreditations, with those badges we have, to show up at committee sessions, as some colleagues are today contacting us and looking for us. So I'm asking you to follow Article 226. The Rules of Procedure you, as chairman, since Dragoljub Micunovic said in this letter and deceived Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic – the current delegation no longer has the legitimacy, because it does not respect the corresponding changes in the National Assembly after the elections, which is explicitly contrary to Rule 6.2 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and in addition some members of the delegation in the meantime become ministers, and such a delegation at the beginning of the plenary session would probably be denied at 10.00 a.m. today, i.e. this morning, at 10.00 a.m., probably (that is the guess of Dragoljub Micunovic) would be denied the verification of the mandate. Since he deals with speculation, I ask you to send a letter as chairman, because Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic has informed us that she is the legitimately elected delegation selected last year, i.e. already before, who participated in the work of all the sessions, and today I am responsible for claiming legitimately based on a letter sent by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, because otherwise this would have happened as Mr Aligrudic spoke. We'd have to run for committee membership in the next year and a half or two days. We are still representatives of the Serbian state. Do you think I printed this on the Internet just because I have nothing to do? This is the agenda I received as an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! We are legitimate to them! Mrs. Komic, do not run away from the truth that Dragoljub Micunovic has deceived the Serbian public, that because of him we are not there today, and therefore I ask you to contact, and you have this authority, if you do not like my and original idea, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, to contact the ministry, let's return to your authority... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Contact, please, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Terry Davis, whoever, to see if, this morning, today, at 10.00 hours, a re-accreditation of us is done by name, that I do not now, because if we were there this morning, we Serbian radicals would challenge one name from that list, since it is a citizen, so how can he not enter this assembly, we would challenge him that he could enter the Council of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13108	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's good to hear from the chairman that the SRS is right, i.e. that Dragan Todorovic, the head of the parliamentary group, was right when he made a complaint about who was responsible for Serbia's lack of representatives in the Council of Europe today, that is, at the session held there. Madam Vice President, I think you have shown one willingness to act objectively, truthfully and realisticly in this House and to do so, which I think is a positive step. Madam Vice President, based on an article. In 225 and 226, I request a notice when I will receive answers and notifications to a number of questions asked, and above all a question relating to the number of Croatian companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I specifically sought on several occasions, and there is no answer, in relation to the state agricultural land and land owned by other entities in the Republic of Serbia, which were bought by the powerful and profiteers from Croatia, especially in the case of Agrokor Company, i.e. Mr. Todorovic, because according to some information, the huge area of agricultural land was taken by Croats under the most unfavourable conditions for the Republic of Serbia. Please, as chairman, ask the Ministry of Agriculture for a final report on whether the Minister of Agriculture will give us that notice or not. On the other hand, if you'll excuse me, I would finally ask Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic – when will he stop misleading the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? When and what measures will be taken to stabilise prices in Serbia, given that prices have started to rage, and this morning on state television, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic came out with another attempt to deceive the public and with a number of falses about the prices of agricultural products, i.e. And food? I ask another question and a notification – I request a report and a notice for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 how many goods did Serbia import and what products and companies, and businesses, and companies and individual producers in Serbia? That's what I'm asking because I have information that imports of those goods produced in Serbia, but after the adoption of a new law and the release of customs and unilateral access to this famous agreement with the EU have opened the door for rich people to continue to be rich, and that poverty and our poor citizens... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I thank you, I end up, they have no opportunity to sell their agricultural products in this Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13110	National MP, part of the stenogram will be sent to the Minister of Agriculture. As for your request for information on the type and quantity of imported goods, we don't have quotas, we don't have contingents, so the Ministry can't give it to you. Private companies import. Any chance we can contact customs. Would that be enough for you? (Petar Jojic of the post: But the government controls customs. ) Good, to be directed to customs, because you have no way of getting information from the government of that kind, because imports are not customs for the government. I understand. (Petar Jojic of the place: To be directed to customs, for the final information will not be obtained from the government. Anything that enters Serbia from agricultural products or any goods must be recorded at the border. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13114	Here's Mrs. Comic, when Mr. Krasic asked to be provided with an answer to some question, you went to the point where you decided to measure and say – you don't need to be delivered, in the day for the vote will be voted and what I know. You see, you can't take over the congregation's intelligence. I have not arrived, I have simply missed, because others have had the advantage of coming out for this pay phone, to tell you that I am not satisfied with your answer regarding my question to the MIP and that I am asking that the Assembly in the voting day be heard about it – have you violated the Rules of Procedure. I'm convinced, look out, most people can decide anything, while the SRS is used to being responsible for both droughts and floods and for God's earthquakes. What most people will say I don't know, but you're obliged to deliver to that address I requested, first of all, no matter how inappropriate the question may be. If I am dissatisfied with your response that you gave me after my presentation – also, that the Assembly declares it, so let it say that you are right. I believe that's what's gonna happen, but we'll have a chance to remind you one day of what you've been doing, be sure, as we remind you now, and you admit what mistakes you've made in the past, starting since 2000. If we were to start listing it all, believe me, we could talk all day about it. After making mistakes, however, the consequences that are difficult to eliminate usually come. I'm not saying that this session of the Council of Europe is of some kind of vital importance, but it's very important that continuity exists, especially for those of you who swear to this Europe and who say we shouldn't be xenophobic, that we should contact the world. It's also logical to be there and be there, that people know us and hear our opinions, to support others, so that others, when it's important, support us. I ask you to take this session a little more seriously, to respect the MPs, because then we will have to act in another way than you, or we will less respect you, and I think we have shown a high degree of respect for the one sitting at the chair table so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13115	No injuries to members or 104 or 27. We will respect ourselves as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges us. As for the duty of showing up for the article. In 225 and 226, that anyone is talking to anyone, it does not exist, as members of 225 and 226 are not from the area of infringement of the procedure, but are from the area of the rights and responsibilities of the MPs. This implies that every MP has the right and duty to be informed of everything he needs to work. The silent agreement of this call and the previous call, as a right acquired, is because so the congregations are made, not only by the Rules of Procedure, but by the inherited practice that we consider to be good, is used. 225 and 226 to get the word and to talk. It is understood that this silent agreement is respected by all. I did not violate that Member or the right of MPs to receive a word, nor did I violate Article 27 and Article 104 at any point in time of reporting because of the desire to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of any MP, and, of course, the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on your proposal – that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Just to inform the National Assembly, excuse me, MP, that the session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take place today, on 26 January 2009, starting at 13:30, at the blue salon, so I ask the members of the Legislative Committee to attend the session. Excuse me, MP, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13116	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from the MPs of the SRS and the MPs of the DSS who actually did it and why we don't have a representative at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today. The easiest thing is, as you usually do, to transfer all responsibility and guilt to the MPs of the SRS. However, I am sure that, first of all, Serbia's citizens are all clear. I, Mrs Comic, will take the opportunity to speak on the basis of Article 226, as it is a matter that is somehow directly related to the environment from which I come, for a large number of Serbian citizens, which is agriculture. We've tried on very many occasions to warn the Ministry of Agriculture that the situation is more than serious and alarming. I personally, Mrs. Comić, visited more than 30 agricultural producers who are exclusively producing milk for the weekend. Believe it or not, milk was paid on Friday to extra-class farmers at the price of 18 dinars, which until two months ago was 34 dinars, so I'm talking about extra class milk. Everything that's under the extra class of milk, it's 90% of the production in our Serbia, the purchasers of milk, above all I mean 'Imlek', which buys milk in my municipality, they're so demanding that they no longer know what to invent and how to bring down the price of our producers - from somatic cells, bacteria, water in milk, pure inventions, just to take off the price of milk that came on amazing 12 dinars for the last month, the noise and shame. If the Ministry of Agriculture thinks it'll end up on this, it won't be safe. Be assured that our agricultural producers, not only will, unfortunately, and are now spreading milk, will go out into the streets and block the roads, because they will not allow this robbery. Our farmer is mostly hardworking and hardworking. People took out loans and mortgage loans. Now they're mass slaughtering a cattle stock. Reliable information, Mrs. Comić, that the Mathijevic meat industry, which buys cattle, brings a vet, you won't believe, people, destroying a cattle fund, selling cow rocks on a scale. It's from God's Grey, but people simply don't have the opportunity to survive in this way and in this relationship. I ask you to appoint a Committee on Agriculture, first of all, to respect the procedure, to return the places belonging to the SRS to that committee, to the people who will fight for the interests of farmers. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, for a while, I'm sure you're interested in this subject, too, and we'll have a chance to discuss this further. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13117	The word has a national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 104, 205 and 206. I'm again asking for an explanation from the president of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs. Hope Kolundzie, because I didn't get the explanation I asked for on Friday. I see that the same question has been asked by some other MPs, however, Mrs Kolundzhija did not find it appropriate to give any answer to that. I must return to the scandalous statement by Mrs Kolundzija, concerning the establishment of a delegation for the Council of Europe session, and I will quote this statement on Thursday: "I, personally, will propose to the Committee on Foreign Affairs that at the meeting of the Council of Europe delegations that are scheduled to start on Sunday not to be representatives of the SRS, because they violate all the rules of the Council of Europe. "Now, after all, for the chief culprit that no delegation has been formed to attend the session of the Council of Europe, the ruling majority, or DS, declares the SRS. It is now the SRS' fault that you only now remembered to form a delegation, and you had six months at your disposal. So it is the SRS' fault that you end the electoral will of citizens, that you violate the Constitution and the law and that you legalise the theft of the mandate of the SRS MPs. You have seized unlimited power through the tycoon, which are a key political factor in Serbia and your haughtiness and passion have no end! I have already said that today in Serbia, instead of democracy, we have "tecunocracy". You have abolished democracy and have become an ordinary instrument for doing the will and interest of the tycoon, both the American and British ambassadors. Legally elected representatives of the citizens are being discriminated against and tried in every way possible to silence the MPs of the opposition, and to those who are illegally sitting in the Assembly you provide rights that do not belong to them. You in the most cruel way possible violate the Constitution and the law whenever it is in your interest. If someone tries to stand up to it and protect their rights, citizens' rights, you're ready to crucify him on the pillar of shame. I can hardly find anything that you as the ruling majority have not broken. I expect an answer from Mrs. Colundge, which the rules of the Council of Europe violate the SRS? We demand an answer and an explanation from both Boris Tadic and Mrs Kolundzija, what does this discrimination mean that the MPs of the SRS cannot be in the delegation? On the basis of what authority do you remove from us the rights that belong to us according to the Constitution and to the Rules of Procedure?- I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13119	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić. He wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13120	Gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. 225 and 226. I request a notice from the president of the Assembly and the competent authorities as to why the draft law on associations was withdrawn from the assembly procedure. I think it is, however, the primary interest of the Serbian state to create a legal basis for the establishment and operation of foreign NGOs, by passing a special law, in order to channel the arbitrary work of foreign NGOs, which often work against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the specific legal treatment of the work of foreign associations, i.e. which there is no regulation in the Republic of Serbia which regulates the functioning of foreign associations and NGOs. The legislator acknowledges that such associations have been present in Serbia for a number of years. The legislator further points out that Serbia is obliged to prescribe in such a detailed way the work of foreign associations, when their activities are governed by international documents, such as. The European Convention on the Recognition of Legal Persons' Status to International NGOs, whose freedom of action is guaranteed and not only in the frameworks of the State in which the association was founded, but also beyond its borders, means the obligation of the State to enable foreign associations to operate on their territory. Gentlemen, here is another reason to resist the full Europeanisation of Serbian legislation, which imposes on Serbia the free anti-state action of European NGOs. The real destructive objective of individual NGOs is hidden by false formulations of the basic purpose of their work, and it is often stated that their activity is aimed at providing direct cartoon and humanitarian assistance, establishing co-operation in the area of training and scientific knowledge and research. In one word, many are represented as philanthropic associations, humanities associations, while their true essence is skillfully hidden. Therefore, state authorities, above all national security and the MUP, must closely monitor the work of foreign associations and monitor their work. On the other hand, the Serbian state must adopt an emergency law on the protection of the state, as did the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians in 1921, by passing laws against the communists, that is, against their anti-state work. The work of many NGOs is illegal from the point of view of state sovereignty. Such a law would be applied against all the breakers of Serbia, and especially against the duchess of the duchess. Although it's in Article 3. The proposal for a law on associations pointed out that the objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, to fostering inequality, hatred and intolerance based on racial national, religious or other belongings, foreign non-profit NGOs, which fall under the provisions of this law, are currently undermining the foundations of constitutional order and territorial integrity. So I believe that the withdrawal of this law, a very important law, is anti-state action, and that is why I repeat it once again and ask the question – why is this very important law withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13121	The word is from MP Bojan Mladenovic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I'm reporting for an article. 225nd and 226, I'm referring to the M.O.P. Namely, the chairman of the Labour Hill's local board, Mr. Boris Pruner, in front of the SRS, was physically attacked last night by Sredo Vesic, an outlawed member of the SRS, and today a member of Tomislav Nikolic's party. The attack took place on the corner of Oplenčka and Alijagic Street, while Pruner was removing SNS posters stuck to a trafo station, which is otherwise not allowed due to the danger of overheating. Boris Pruner is a retired colonel, a graduate air engineer, a prominent expert at the Air Force Institute in Zarkov, who was on the team for designing our aircraft. A man like that was attacked on the street by Vesic, who was previously known as a very unfortunate person. This attack has been notified to the police and we expect it to respond adequately. This is not the first physical attack on members of the SRS in Rakovica. Just a month ago, on December 23rd, sports and youth council president Rakovic Vladimir was attacked by Bratislava Losic, also a member of the SNS and a former radical. Novakovic was then diagnosed with numerous injuries, police were informed, but no criminal proceedings have been initiated until today. In the municipality of Rakovic, members of the SRS face daily threats posed by phone and directly by members of the party Tomislav Nikolic. As a rule, ex-executed members are making threats like that. The chairman of the SNS Initiative Committee on Rakovica is Milosav Milickovic, who has now moved into this party and brought along several members of the SRS. As far as he's concerned, Vojislav Seselj has in his time taken up that his parents, who were captured by the Cypriot terrorists, have successfully exchanged in Kosovo and Metohija, and he is now returning to him by betraying former members to threaten violence. It has already been filed against him or has been filed in the procedure of filing 15 criminal charges, because after leaving the party he used the power to sign a contract with the committees and thus terminated the contracts, using stamps and powers. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard what's going on in the Rakovica municipality, and it's especially strange that it comes to the initiative of the man whose parents were rescued by Dr. Vojislav Seselj. This person, em, left the SRS, is now doing this sort of thing against members and activists of the SRS. I refer the question to the Ministry of the Interior: has it taken appropriate measures to protect SRS activists from the territory of the Rakovic municipality? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13123	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I would like to draw attention, above all, to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and our public, to the humanitarian disaster that is happening in the village of Donja Drenovce, the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica. This village's been out of power for the ninth day. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what happens in Belgrade when we lose an hour or two or more without power. Imagine that one almost ethnically pure Serbian village in Kosovo's Kamenica, about 100 houses, is nine days without electricity. According to the president of the municipality of Boban Jeftic, they have notified the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and our authorities, but until today they have absolutely not received a single reply, not a single letter. We are asking citizens of Serbian nationality and those of other members of national minorities who accept the state of Serbia as their own, to stay in Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, I ask the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija: what will they do about this? I ask Minister Goran Bogdanovic: will he allow the Cypriot authorities to fully implement their plan on ethnically clean Kosovo in this case? After this experiment, they will move around Kosovo to banish the last Serb from Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic: what will he do now, and how can he explain the conduct of the Eulex mission – constitutionally neutral, she, who has come to, in fact, establish all institutions of the future state of Kosovo and Metohija in line with the plan of Marti Ahtisaari?- I'm sorry. As the Shiparians create their own security forces, practically, the Nucleus Army, so far the Serbs are cut off by electricity. Nine days of households in the village of Lower Drenovce have no electricity. I ask you a question: gentlemen, what are we going to do, as a Assembly, that one of the competent state institutions, first of all the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, do everything in their power with representatives of the international community, here first of all I think of UNMIK, in order for this village to get electricity immediately? If we do not do anything, believe that responsibility is also on our assembly, on the MPs. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) I believe that you are all ready to put pressure on our authorities to do everything in their power and to inform us today what the situation is about the village of Donja Drenovce. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13125	The word is from MP Dragoljub Micunovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13126	I've been waiting for all the complaints to be exhausted, but, uh, the public does, to say a few things. Of course, it all started if the Rules of Procedure had been broken. Some people here quoted something, they skipped something, they didn't want to quote it, but I'm taking care of it and I'm saying now, in front of the whole public, that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken. This is about the different motives that the third hour has not come to the agenda, which is so exciting by a large number of MPs, which is the formation of a delegation for the Council of Europe. Of course, I scheduled a session as soon as we got a request to elect a delegation, and on that occasion I said I was expecting, as it is on the agenda, that it would be voted on Thursday, so that we could make a decision on time to go. It's not done. He's been here all day. The next day I said, "Okay, let's try 1:30 Friday." At that time, however, there was no decision to leave our delegation. What was the problem? Someone here once mentioned what the problem is and why we couldn't put together a delegation and why we couldn't vote. In this proposal, proposed by Parliament Speaker, Mr Aligrudic, Dragan Todorovic and Željko Ivanji, Tomislav Nikolic entered the delegation next to me, and there was a problem, as he wants to continue to dispute the legitimacy of Tomislav Nikolic in this assembly. Then, Branko Ružić, Cedomir Jovanovic, Milos Jeftic, Natasa Vučković, Bojan Kostreš, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Velimir Ilic and Elvira Kovac. It was a proposed delegation and this proposal is now on the agenda, so if someone really cares about meeting their concerns for the country's interests, here's a chance to vote now. It can still be reached there, since none of these points that are on the agenda today directly affect some of our state interests, but it will not come because this list will not be accepted because of Tomislav Nikolic. Then, at the request of the President of the Assembly - what to do, I said I couldn't schedule any session unless I had any decision. That would be just a glass of sour water and we'd split up. That's what I said to her in a letter. Despite insistence on reaching an agreement on the allocation of candidate seats for presidents, firstly parliamentary groups of friendships, which has not yet been done, and on the other hand, the National Assembly has not chosen permanent delegations to the multilateral parliamentary institutions and neither has a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, thus creating a situation in which the Committee would have nothing to discuss and decide on, and therefore a session of the Committee is planned... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I can get back to you, but I need to explain in the answers what just happened. As for the delegation's trip to Strasbourg for participation in the Parliamentary Assembly meeting, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly in Article 10 explicitly stipulates that the national parliament, after parliamentary elections, must elect a new delegation for Parliament to the Assembly of the Council of Europe within six months, which has not been done in the National Assembly. (President: Four minutes. ) It was the last time, but in order not to make a drama, to somehow go, one letter was asked to allow the old delegation to leave, but it was exhausted, otherwise this delegation and the mole and which did not correspond to the schedule of forces in parliament could be there peacefully... (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Four years to work. That was the reason. The second is a member of 6. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Europe Assembly, which says members of the delegation that should be there must represent the relationship of forces in parliament. That's the problem now. Some parties received much less in the election, some split, and six months after the election must be chosen. (President: five minutes. ) Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's something that's trying to create, an illusion, but the people are looking at it, the third hour, that's exactly what we're talking about here, is the injured Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have not been injured, because the Rules of Procedure say that within the deadline, it says, the final position, that it takes five days before the session is scheduled to be notified to the ministries, to inform all interested ones to come. (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. I just did it the next day. And what this group that represents the two parties, the DSS and the SRS, did after the assembly's work was completed, when it was all over, I left, they scheduled a session Monday morning at 9pm. The Assembly doesn't work on Saturdays and Sundays. At dawn, for God's sake, I had to wake up the MPs. I said, go ahead, when I get there, then in the next day, right away on the first day, we'll schedule a session... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... And she's scheduled for tomorrow, 11:00 p.m. If anyone wants to go to the Council of Europe, let them make it possible to go, let the delegation vote and everything is in order. I care more than many, that the continuity of our work in Europe will be continued. It will continue, fear nothing, receive our new delegation, but I urge that we come to it as soon as possible, and anything else that is our internal problems, relations between individual parties, must not suffer the state. I won't answer my word again. I apologize for saying this much, unfortunately, democracy is, among other things, a number, we will vote on everything, both on the Committee and the Assembly... (President: seven minutes. )......................................................................................................... And by doing so, we're still going to achieve some civilizational level. Defamation, lying, etc. I've never responded, so I won't answer now, although many have been spoken in so far's work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13127	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 104, but first of all to answer some of the findings that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. Yes, Mr. Micunović. You have the possibility that the ruling majority will confirm those words of yours, but you cannot modify Article 77. The fact that you're a sick man, you have understanding and you don't want to be MPs, I can accept that, but it's not meant for the Rules of Procedure. When it is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure that MPs can't work before 9:00 or 12:00 a.m. for meetings and especially the Foreign Affairs Committee, because Mr. Micunovic has a special understanding of that, I will accept it. Mr. Micunovic, until it's written in the Rules of Procedure, I can't accept it. It says very simply here, Mr. Micunović, not to read to you, because you can understand... Can I read it to you? I thought I wasn't reading to you because we've already read to you, so don't take it as an insult, possibly to misread it. It is said here – if the chairman of the board does not do so within the required time limit, the committee's session shall be convened by the deputy chairman of the committee. It's simple, understandably, there's no dilemma about it. You have not acted in accordance with the request of six MPs who asked for a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has scheduled a session and there is no dilemma. I understand that you've, say, writtenly informed these six MPs, so to speak, I can't schedule a session at 9:00, because I don't want to wake up MPs, I don't want this, I don't want this, I don't want it, I don't want it, I want it, I want it in 1200, 13.00, 15.00, and so on. Then I could respect your reasons. You didn't want to do that. This is your obvious intention, because behind you is the majority who will vote that you have not broken the Rules of Procedure, and have broken the Rules of Procedure. There's no dilemma. The problem is, Mr. Micunovic, that you are one of the founders of the DS, the father of democracy, who, in the way the DS works, promoted a way of functioning that does not change, which is political interest. Everything else is irrelevant. You say: democracy is among other things and number. Yes, but the procedure, Mr. Micunovic, is much more important than the number. The number comes at the end, but the procedure is the one that allows democracy, Mr. Micunovic... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... And I'm sorry that I have to tell you from the assembly pay phone, because the procedure also allows those who don't have a number or are only one, such as MPs, because by your logic and by your understanding of democracy, we wouldn't have anything to look for in the Assembly. The number decides what it wants and ends. (President: Four minutes. I'm done. Mr. Micunovic, try to eliminate these problems, which the DS is facing, you as chairman of the Political Council, slowly because that number in you is turning into terror for the majority, and we will not allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13129	National MP, no injuries, no members of 104, no members of 77. As for members of the 77th and work of the Committee of the National Assembly, all possibilities have been used, i.e. full capacity, for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The board president scheduled a session for tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Six members of the Committee scheduled a session for today at 9.00 p.m., so for today at 13:45 p.m. and in none of these steps, the Rules of Procedure were broken, nor did the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee violate the Rules of Procedure. That will be stated by the Assembly on your request in the day of the vote. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13130	Thank you. This foundation, and the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104 and one kind of replica, I'll consume everything in three minutes, so we don't waste any time. Mr. Micunovic, you said for a moment that you had scheduled twice a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week, on Thursday and Friday, and that both times you cancelled that session because you realized there was no will of any parliamentary group, to agree on the matter of delegations. Is it possible that it was the only topic of the agenda of these sessions? Didn't we have groups of friendships? Didn't we have any other requirements that the Committee was supposed to decide on? Didn't you have requests for other participations in some other conferences and international gatherings during that time? Are all these trips that are now being realized decided at the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs? No, they're not. You had other obligations. I can understand that you could have taken one point off the agenda that wasn't mature, in your opinion, for decision-making. I can't figure out why you're canceling the board's session -- that's under one. Two, when a session of the Committee is proposed, the time has been proposed, and that time is in itself consummating and the moment since you have to schedule it according to Article 77. Rules of Procedure. You didn't do that. The vice president did it and that's the end of the deal. If you insist that this session be tomorrow, you, as chairman of the Committee, have the right to decide, regardless of today's session, and we, as members of the Committee, will definitely come both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and every day at the session. There's no dispute here. It's another thing. When it comes to something that's about Strasbourg today, you've told a lie here, I'm not telling a lie, because telling a lie would mean that you did it on purpose, and I can't know it, you know it best, you said there's nothing on the agenda there today that affects the interests of the state. That's not true. I guess you didn't know, 'cause I can't say this any other way, and you get to know each other. Today, the Political Committee, which has a situation in Kosovo, is Bjorn von Sidov's rapporteur. You're a member of this political committee, just like I am. Today we will not be able to give any reflection on the text that applies, and you know very well that there is first, second reading and plenary session, that the work on some resolution, proposal, recommendations etc. is being carried out in all these stages and that the absence from some of these phases inevitably leads to the loss of vote in the event of a plenary session. If there is no engagement on the committees preceding the plenary session, we are putting the state at a serious risk that what we want to change will not be able to isolate and do within what is necessary. That's one thing. It's another thing. You talked about Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, by letter, informing the Parliamentary Assembly in autumn that it should extend the members of the delegations' rights, which remained in this meeting, because no new one has been elected yet. To be clear, I fully agree that our internal rule is precisely such that the delegation must be elected in the Serbian Parliament. It's a question of who, I believe, no one here has any dispute. The issue of political opportunity is raised on the basis of which Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, which you have not even disputed, made that letter, but you did not say that on 16 January this year Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic made the same letter, in which she informs the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and says there are reasons for that, and says who will represent the delegation before the election before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. Be patient, for the gentleman has been given almost seven minutes. So that's something you forgot to prove, and we'll see today, at 12:00 p.m., a plenary session begins. There are two things that are possible: either we are being verified by these mandates proposed by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic today, which would mean that we are completely in vain here, instead of doing our job there, or not. If they are not verified equally, because I had already talked about dangerous discontinuity, which for the state is more than an opportunite of the work of the National Assembly. It's your right. It's your choice. You can do whatever you want. What we disagreed with, and I end it, so you don't worry, is that none of the MPs can, I include myself, anyone else, to report to the head of the delegation, the chairman of the Assembly Committee, and that on behalf of you, because you represent yourself as one, you didn't present yourself as an MP and you said, I don't know, that and that, but you signed as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that is, foreign affairs. That means you had to have a hearing with the Foreign Affairs Committee. That's the point. That's the problem and we'll discuss it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13131	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13132	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104 Rules of Procedure. Regardless of what we have on the agenda today, topics that normally do not cause any debate, and usually do not cause debates just because the opposition does not want to discuss these issues, because the only way to choose delegations in which the opposition participates, to elect committees and committee presidents, is to achieve political consent and based on this political consensus and parliamentary majority vote. However, here it is now open, not just today, this session is an opportunity to talk about things that are the background of everything that is going on here, and the background of what is happening here is the fact that one parliamentary group thinks that another parliamentary group should not have representatives in parliamentary delegations. They demand that, beyond the rules that have otherwise been established and have always been valid, all parliamentary groups, proportionate to their representation, have representatives in permanent delegations, that this time one parliamentary group does not have those representatives. That is why they are telling us, in all the talks with us, in all attempts to make an agreement to respect the basic rule, which is always respected, that they will not allow delegations to be elected if they form the single parliamentary group, which they claim should not be. Radicals argue that advances must not have representatives in parliamentary delegations, and that is why we have this controversy today. Saying the reasons for this controversy are something else is just trying to cover up the facts about why we're discussing this today. The attacks on the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee are actually an attempt to shift the topic to something that is absolutely not a subject and cannot be. We all know that on several occasions we have tried to elect delegations and precisely because of the fact that radicals will not allow it, as they understand parliamentaryism and democracy, we have managed to do so so far. Since the subject of an appointment of the Foreign Affairs Committee is open, I just want to do it again, because of the public you're misleading here, to explain how things are going. It is true that one third of the MPs have the right to request an appointment. The truth is, he can set a deadline, but there's a final position on that same member, which says what deadlines they are. Please, don't count on me time, I want to quote the position – "A notice on the date and agenda of the committee session is being delivered to all MPs, parliamentary groups and government, at least five days before the meeting of the committee. Exceptionally, a date and agenda notice may also be delivered within a shorter period, with the chairman of the committee obliged to explain such a procedure at the committee's session." When a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was scheduled on Friday, the president scheduled a session for Tuesday, at 11.00 a.m. This morning, the vice president scheduled a session for today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13133	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, you show elemental ignorance, I must say, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. You start from the fourth position when it comes to Article 77. You've got some things to take after all. When given a right, one-third, past the president, that's to prevent the president's will. So that's why you give it. Not only when it comes to the committee, but also when it comes to the president of the assembly and anyone else. You're giving someone the right to prevent them from carrying out their own will. It is obvious that, in this situation, it is the self-will of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I didn't mean to talk about it, but in order to completely expose some things, we're going to have to say it. As for the composition of the delegation, how can the SRS be the reason? That's what we'll talk about when it comes to the agenda. Secondly, there is already a person there who should not be a member of the delegation, as the party did not participate in the elections. There's no dilemma. This is about a different matter, Mr. Micunovic's wish for delegations to go to Strasbourg with a new president at any cost. This impatience between DS and DSS has since since ancient times, i.e. from the second composition of the delegation that went to Strasbourg. You have done everything to allow Mr. Micunovic to leave as president of the delegation. What did Mr. Micunovic care about? I don't want to get into it, but it's obvious that Mr. Micunovic's desire to lead the delegation to this situation alone. That's why, among other things, you launched a campaign on spending funds in the paper. I'm not getting into that. Explore everything, everyone responsible for this must bear responsibility, both moral and legal, etc., but it is again about how you want to achieve your political goal or your goal. You're currently accusing someone you think will be the easiest to pass, which is the SRS. Mrs. Kolundzhija, one of our MPs signed a request for a session, the other are members of some other parties, but you blame the SRS and the only problem is the SRS. No, the only problem is DS. For this irregular situation in the Serbian Parliament, the DS is responsible and there is no dilemma. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13135	There are no injuries to those members and no irregular status in the Serbian Parliament. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13136	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 101, 103 and 104. I just want to say that now that someone is raising the issue of responsibility for the future head of the delegation, and he was the previous head of the delegation, he can talk about him, not us. What is the obligation of the new Parliament's calling is that the new assembly of Parliament, in line with its composition, chooses new delegations. It's not a question of whether we want it or not, it's an obligation. So there's nothing for us to feel free to interpret our own or someone else's Rules of Procedure. Some of the international institutions in which we choose delegations also have their own rules that say we should do so six months after the constitution of the new parliament, that six months after the constitution, we can still be represented by an old delegation. It would seem to you that, regardless of the elections, a four-year-old delegation with the old head of delegation could go, as if nothing had happened in Serbia in the meantime. It's simply not possible, so we have no rush, no personal motivation whatsoever. We have an obligation, in accordance with the fact that elections have been held in the meantime, that in these elections citizens have chosen their representatives in this assembly and that we have an obligation to choose, among other things, and a permanent delegation, we are only doing this and nothing more. And if you say that after eight months and more of this haste, then we don't understand the necessary dynamics and speed to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13137	There's no damage to the members. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13138	And I'm calling in an article. 101, 103 and 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, you're still interpreting things, I believe in the wrong way, because in no way, what I said cannot be interpreted as you're trying to interpret them. Mrs. Kolundjia, here's a simple question. You say the composition of the delegation had to be defined no later than six months after the constitution of the Serbian Parliament. Do you know what month this is? January of the month. There were elections in May of the month. What have you been doing so far? What have you been doing so far?- I'm sorry. Now that suits you, and now you're on your way to doing this job. Mrs Kolundzija, I asked Mrs Komic and she answered the question correctly and honestly, what was going on, how she interpreted the situation when delegations formed two people, the first Dragoljub Micunovic, without a decision by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, the second delegation of Predrag Markovic, also voluntarily, without a decision by the Serbian Parliament. Now, why don't you explain to me what the democratic way of choosing a delegation is? As you say, problems with the former president of the delegation. I don't have a problem. I have absolutely no problem with Mr. Micunovic, as head of the delegation on two occasions, absolutely, I don't care at all. I am just defending here the right and principle, first of all, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure and the opportunities of the chairman of a committee and the possibilities unless the president acts in the way MPs think they should, and they have MPs. Now, I've told you this nicely, this first, second, third, fourth position refers to a regular procedure, a regular situation, and here this situation is not a regular situation, because obviously, as soon as six MPs asked for a session, maybe they're wrong at all, that we understand each other, but that's their right to the Rules of Procedure. The president can't decide when or won't, but he should follow the Rules of Procedure. He did not follow the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Committee acted on the Rules of Procedure and you defend it. Whether you want to admit it or not, I didn't want to point it out so far, one of the basic motives is for the president of the delegation to be Dragoljub Micunovic, it's true and you can't deny it, not in a single word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13139	There is no violation of Article 77 and there is no breach of procedure in any step in the appointment of a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, nor is there a breach of procedure by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13140	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. What really is the essence of the whole conflict here and the totally illegal status of this assembly is that, Professor, Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, you have a faction in this parliament that has been separated from the strongest opposition party. I'd like you to come out now, after me, of course, if you find the material, to answer that, but I'd like you to, since you're truly famous as the progeny of democracy here, to carry out the next situation. So you have one group that didn't participate in the elections, which has been singled out as a faction from the strongest opposition party with a completely different political agenda, we don't even talk about ideology here, so different political programs. Serbian citizens, in the May elections, did not vote for a single point of the SNS political programme, which is not part of this parliament. Or, to turn the situation the other way, and believe that we have also consulted certain experts dealing with parliamentaryism in the world, but until we solve the problem in the country, unlike others who complain to the world of domestic problems, we will try to solve this problem in Parliament. God forbid it happens to any of the members of the Forward Group, Serbia that it can no longer participate in the duties of MPs, I would like to hear back from which list will you fill the parliamentary mandate? There are answers to all the other questions. What Serbia's citizens should also know is the essence of the overall problem in parliament in Serbia is from a dissociation in the SRS, i.e. the attempt of a failed coup is precisely the will of the ruling majority, and we will soon find out why it is so, to maintain a fragmented opposition political scene beyond all rules and beyond all democratic principles. So, the SRS does all the time within the institutions of the political system what is guaranteed by the Constitution and all by following the laws. We are not the subject of a faction, the theme of the ruling majority who came to the wings of democracy has brought down the totalitarian regime, to see if the exam will be democratically passed. It is likely that this is an arbitrary interpretation and that everything that is the practice of parliamentaryism in the world, especially Western European democracies, I interpret on an arbitrary basis because it is my political interest, but what you do about political delegations, the return of mandates and the return of legitimacy of this is going to be the answer to the exam you're on. Thank you, and I apologize for this overrun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13141	There is no violation of Article 104 and there is no illegal situation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13142	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Ragush confirmed what I say and revealed what her head of the Parliament Club wanted to cover up. We are just saying that the problem is in what you said, you are making a problem because you think that one parliamentary group in your opinion is not legitimate in this House, so it should not be represented either in parliamentary delegations or in any other committee. So that's exactly what's going on here, and now I want to confirm that you've actually confirmed, regardless of what Mr. Todorovic has been trying to deny, that that's the problem. So that's the problem. I need to remind you of something else. There is a constitution and there is a law, a law that clearly defines under which conditions the term of office ceases before the deadline on which the MP has been elected. I would also like to remind you that the mandates of all MPs sitting in this House have been confirmed in this House and no single mandate under the law has yet to be questioned. Therefore, all MPs sitting in this House have the full legitimacy to be MPs, and their rights to participate in the work of the Assembly, as well as all other MPs, until something else is established under the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13143	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so Marina Ragus, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13144	Mrs. Komic, I call on Article 104, and I ask that in the day of voting Mrs. Nadia Kolundžija be warned about what she is doing and how she is obstructing the work of the National Assembly. Now let me explain what this is about. You know, there's something like the previous question and it has to be solved. Of course, it's solved in the institutions of the system. Just to remind you, the institutions of the system were also in 2006, so some of the questions were resolved, so whoever wasn't satisfied with the solution to the issue brought Gonzales, and then we heard great stories about the democracy of the procedure, so now we found out that it was the right of the absolute majority, and then we survived all these eight years of the booming democracy and that kind of primitiveism that we thought it was a great democracy when it was voted out of the Bodrum, when it was voted out of Thessaloniki, when we took the mandate of the entire parliamentary group, and we learned that democracy was hiding in the interests of something that was the personification of democratic authority. So we learned that there was an individual, amoebe, Democrats, etc. Here, democratic parliamentaryism represents only what is the interest of a small group of people, who say they are democratically, according to the ideology of the Socialists, when they come to the village, they are patriots, when they come to B92, they are Europeans. At each location, they have an appropriate story that they want to conceal the essence of in order to achieve their naked political interest, which has nothing to do with either the Constitution or the law or the Rules of Procedure. This is about one big manipulation. A man wants to be head of the delegation and needs a new composition of the delegation. That's the real point. Someone here wants to keep something illegal. I'm not going into that subject on purpose. I've prepared a lab for you. On your site of the National Assembly, there is something contrary to what Mrs. Hope Kolundji claims. Is it possible that you don't know the structure of the National Assembly, you don't know the information, you don't know the notices sent by the National Assembly? Have you understood what it says in the beliefs of choice for the MPs of some people, from which lists are selected, which ideology should they represent? You don't care about that, because your job is done, and your job right now is to preserve confusion in Serbia. You're an accomplice to everything that's going on in this nation. You keep this condition that way. Aligrudic says it is a very important topic on the Political Committee. A man comes out of the DS and says, "It doesn't matter, let it go, tie the cat to the tail, we can do it tomorrow, we can do it the day after tomorrow." It is known what power is present in the National Assembly. Respect that power, respect the voter's will, respect the voter's voice. We're not looking for 127 mandates, we're only looking for what the citizens in the elections said belonged to the SRS and there are no other problems, but you're not letting the electoral will of the citizens be realised. We don't have pots, we don't have whistles, we don't light up the Assembly, unlike you, you do all that, and you pretend it's the source of democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13145	There is no violation of Article 104 in the presentation of Hope Kolundzija's National MP, she has made a true claim that all MPs have confirmed mandates and that there is no illegal situation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that all MPs who have confirmed mandates have all the rights and obligations that come from the confirmed mandate of the MP as status. Would you like the Assembly to make a statement about your objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13146	Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, here is another piece of evidence after Mrs Kolundzhija's statement that everything that is going on in the country, even for the elemental disasters, is the fault of the SRS. In this country we have the Constitution and the law and we have the head of the Parliament's group of ZES, or as it used to be called DOS, in fact, the same thing, now it's Hope Kolundji, and if you put on the scale of the Wage Constitution and the law, on the one hand, and you put Hope Kolundji as the name and name and representatives of that group, it will always weigh Hope Kolundji. It used to be someone else in her place, it doesn't matter what name and last name she is, but if it's possible that above the Constitution and the law she could be head of the ruling majority's parliamentary group. You remember what you've been doing since 2000, not to repeat what my colleagues have been saying, starting with crisis headquarters and arson and everything else, and stealing the mandate, and getting out of the DSS MPs, so at one point, thanks to such democracy, if you remember, we've had over 300 MPs who were here in Parliament, voting from Bodrum, so after the president of your party comes out and says, "Sorry, that's true, you were right, but that's an ex-post mind, so it's going to be like a party punishment." What do we have if there's some law that shouldn't have passed? Isn't that an abuse, isn't it a crime? Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't prejudge things, we haven't changed to the first item of the agenda yet. You're absolutely right when you talk about it, but we're talking about previous issues now, about what happened to today until we open this first item of the agenda. When we open that agenda point, don't be a spokeswoman from the SRS, we'll say why anyone can or why someone shouldn't be a representative of our delegation in international institutions. Now we are still talking about irregularities that you, or the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, are guilty of, of course, doing only what the parliamentary majority has agreed. Don't replace the thesis, please. So leave us time, when we start talking about the first item of the agenda we're going to say what we have, and you, I mean, on that point, you just have to give an answer, and it's best to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, in order for the Constitution to be respected in this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13147	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13148	Madam Chairman, thank you. An esteemed colleague, Mrs Kolundzija, who I truly think very much understands democratic principles, even though she did not say it out loudly and loudly very often because of the political views of the party to which she belonged, so, on 11 May 2008, Mrs Kolundzija participated in the parliamentary elections, she handed over the SRS Electoral List of SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj and won 78 mandates, based on her ideology and her political programme. So, if you tell me that Gore, Serbia as a group of citizens, the Serbian Progressive Party, participated in the May elections in 2008, then I will also support the the thesis in which the ruling majority, or democratic power in Serbia, is exerting violence here in Parliament a completely illegal state. Secondly, another argument in favor of my replica, and yet in the context of all of this being orchestrated against the SRS. In 2009, Igor Becic, Veroljub Arsic, Jelena Budimirovic, was handed over to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in January 19th. They shall comply with Article 102. The Constitution of Position 2 irrevocably laid down its mandates for MPs at the disposal of the SRS, whose proposal was elected as MPs. The statements authorised the SRS to decide fully on their mandates. I use the right to reply in the context of replacing the thesis with the head of the MEP group, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, who unfortunately came out, but I am very confident that they will hear, as well as that all those who are owned to decide on this issue in Serbia. The SRS coup was carried out the moment when this number of MPs who stayed here refused to recognise Kosovo and Metohija, and that is the essence when we did not want to sign the SAA. Who's behind that? Those ambassadors, those heads of diplomatic missions, are also inadmissible, and the democratic government in this country will not react because it knows that whoever first responded in 2003 paid the price when he said they would no longer be able to manage embassy heads in Serbia. So, we have one project that is obviously taken out of the borders of this country, carried out here, and now we have a completely illegal state in the highest body of a state, such as parliament. In return, we only expect you to respect democratic principles and democratic procedures and nothing more, to return... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, just to finish thinking, a normal parliamentary life in Serbia, because it costs all of us, and most of all, the ones who chose us. Citizens were not elected by the SNS, citizens on 11 May chose the ideology that Dr Vojislav Seselj and the SRS say aloud, and that is the essence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13149	The word is from MP Jadranko Vukovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13150	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 101, 103 and 104. Of course, I reacted to Mrs. Kolundzhia's discussion, or her replica, by her colleague, Marina Ragush. Marina Ragush located the problem and Mrs. Kolundzhija reacted quickly when she said – you have one problem of how you will settle something from some other parliamentary group if this group that tried to execute the coup disappears and which you are now protecting. It is not clear to me, Mrs. Comic, how you are protecting this group, and you heard the party's deputy, Aleksandr Vukic, brutally attacking Mr. Tadic, destroying the regime of Boris Tadic. Here, I have a specific example... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: Apparently, it is faked. I'm afraid he'll knock it down. In fact, he knocks Tadic over the edge of Dacic, Mr Palma and these other coalition partners. The problem is what Miss Ragush said. For the weekend something happened, something was promised to someone, Mr. Micunovic, from that group. Tomislav Nikolic, last night I watched the news carefully, announced that he would continue to shout here, Arlauc, to stand behind this pay phone, but he gave up on it. Obviously, something was promised to that man. You saw, someone here was arlausing, someone was banging, and someone went crazy. That's what the citizens of Serbia saw. So, you must understand the fact that a colleague of Ragush said, the list is called Dr. Vojislav Seselj-SRS. There's no group on that list, Mr. Micunovic. The sooner you understand that fact, the sooner we solve the problem, and you, Mr. Micunovic, will surely be the head of that delegation. I even know that Mr. Todor respects you and when we once wanted to criticize you for something, he says – don't Micun, he's a correct man, etc. That's what I'm telling you honestly. So give it a little bit of a deal between you, and we'll solve the problem. So someone's been promised something about the mandate, whether or not they're coming back -- they're not coming back, and that's why the gentleman who arlaused from this pay phone today is still and doesn't come out here. That's a fact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13151	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is held by MP Aleksandar Martinovic as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin my presentation by referring to Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's statement given on Thursday, it has been repeated today – that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation at the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Members of the SRS should not participate, because we are reportedly violating the principles of the Council of Europe. The statement is politically scandalous and it is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I suggest, Mrs Comic, that you, as chairman of the future, when certain legislative proposals come to us in the Serbian Parliament, that you first consult Mrs Nada Kolundji whether the proposals are sufficiently in line with European standards, because it is obvious that Mrs Nada Kolundzhija has righted herself here to be the Supreme Judge whether someone's behaviour is in line with European principles or not. Of course, Mrs. Hope Kolundjia tried today in a rather ignorant way to explain her statement. She reiterated what we all knew, which is that they are trying to force, contrary to the Constitution, against the Rules of Procedure, to hold in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a political group that did not participate in the last parliamentary elections. The position of the SRS on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in an international parliamentary institution is based on Article 239. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is interesting that in the material delivered to us, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called on page six for the basis of this decision, says here: "The basis for this decision is Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for the National Assembly to decide on the establishment of permanent delegations in international parliamentary institutions. ''I must conclude that this invitation is not complete and that the proposal for a decision does not provide a valid legal basis for making this decision, because Article 239 is not quoted entirely, or simply, whether or not an important formulation has been accidentally or intentionally skipped. Article 239(2) reads as follows: "The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations in the position of the 1st member shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups", is now the key part, "having regard to the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. ''The key question now being asked here, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People – which political parties? Are all the political parties that exist in the Republic of Serbia, registered with the competent ministry or only those political parties that participated in the last parliamentary elections held on 11 May last year? The SRS believes only representatives of those political parties who participated in the last parliamentary elections can participate in the National Assembly delegations. For the SRS, it is something that is completely normal, which is unquestionable and what is the foundation of parliamentary democracy everywhere in the world, and so it should be in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Micunovic tried to bring things down to absurdity and say democracy is ultimately a number. No, Mr. Micunovic, democracy is primarily a choice and democracy is primarily a procedure. The procedure involves electoral procedure and procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, Mr. Micunović resents it, but as a good theorist and philosopher of democracy, here I invite him to tell us which great theorist of democracy, starting with John Locke, John Stuart Mill, John Rawls and others, thinks that in one parliament in the world a political party that has never participated in parliamentary elections at all? If it doesn't matter whether a political party participated in the elections or not, then the question arises – what is the choice? That means, then there is no difference between parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties, and then that means that ultimately it doesn't matter how many mandates you won, did you even participate in the elections. It is enough, if we accept the logic of the ruling coalition, that there is one political party, that the party is registered with the competent ministry and that the party thus acquires the right to have representatives in the National Assembly delegations in international parliamentary institutions. The SRS believes that this is not the case and that representatives in these delegations can only have those political parties that participated in the parliamentary elections. Who participated in the parliamentary elections? My colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club talked about it. I just need to get the public and the public information funds to repeat that fact one more time. So, in the May 11th elections, she participated, among other things, in the SRS Election List, which was called – SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj. Here, I own a photocopy of the first page of that election list, which was submitted to RIK on 25 March 2008. So, the list is called SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, the first on the List of Presidents of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj, date of birth on 11 October 1954, profession of university professor, residence and address of dwellings – Zemun, Milice Rakić 36. etc. So, the holder of the list was the president of the SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj. That's something you absolutely don't question. What other facts should be highlighted in this debate? Mrs Nada Kolundzhija called for all MPs to be confirmed by mandates at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but dropped out to say that the MP to the National Assembly did not fall from heaven, from Mars or from elsewhere, but rather to come to the National Assembly as a candidate for an election list. It's not enough to say that someone has confirmed a mandate, but that a mandate has been confirmed for someone on an election list, it's very important. They do not sit here and represent themselves, their family members, neighbors, etc., but represent some political parties. What's this about? This is about former Bolsheviks, former communists, former practitioners fear political parties. They have accepted the force of opportunity and the force of living circumstances of democracy as a political system, which includes, of course, the existence of more political parties, but in them is still the idea they learned in the courses of Cominterna, SKJ, which they declared at various philosophical schools after World War II – that political parties are evil, which we, it is expensive, it confuses the people, better that there is one political party. Now you see how this ideological, philosophical thread extends all the way to today. Today those who run the DS, those who are her father's founders, are in fact expressing fear of political parties. Their disciples here are silent one fact – that the MPs do not represent themselves and that they did not come, as they say, ex niil, or from anything to the National Assembly, but have already come as representatives of certain political parties. Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the role of political parties in creating public opinion in Serbia and creating political life. You cannot be consistent with the Democrats and say – I am for democracy, but I do not recognise the role of certain political parties. Maybe someone doesn't like it, maybe someone thinks that party discipline isn't good, that it's not in line with some absolute freedom of man, but gentlemen, freedom in democracy is not absolute freedom. It is not the freedom to do whatever comes to your mind, it is the right to do what the Constitution, the law, or, or, this Rules of Procedure allow. I simply want to remind Mrs Nada Kolundji and all representatives of the ruling coalition of the fact that RIK is, on the basis of Article 34, Article 85, Article 86, respectively, of Article 90. The Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments submitted a report on the overall election results for the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The report was adopted at a session of the Republic Election Commission on 20 May 2008. Now one perfectly logical question is being asked here. You don't have to be a lawyer to ask that question and give a valid answer to that question. Is there still a report on the overall election results for Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or not? The SRS considers the Report valid, but the report submitted by the RIK and on the basis of which the National Assembly confirmed the mandates of the MPs in the National Assembly. Here is among other things what the RIK report says – the name of the electoral list – SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, number of votes won 1.219.436, number of seats won 78. On the basis of this report, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia verified the mandates on 11 June 2008, or confirmed the mandates of MPs, but confirmed the mandates of MPs belonging to a particular political party. In a parliamentary democracy that implies a multi-party political life, it is impossible to separate the MP from his electoral list, i.e. from the political party he belongs to. No one here voted individually for Alexander Martinovic, neither Hope Kolundzija nor anyone else, voted for an election list. The election list was called SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj and the list won 78 seats. What's going on in the meantime? Since September of last year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, unfortunately, been brought into a state of political pathology by the SRS. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is reportedly a political party, which has not participated at all in the parliamentary elections, and we are honored by the ruling coalition that we are violating the principles of the Council of Europe. You're breaking them, gentlemen, from the ruling coalition. Tell us one member of the Council of Europe, one EU member country, one major world democracy from the United States to Japan and Australia that is possible for a political party to sit in parliament that did not participate in the parliamentary elections and that you recognise the same rights as the political parties that participated in the elections and who won a number of mandates. In some ways, even you indirectly acknowledge the fact that there is something in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that is pathological, something that is abnormal, something that is not in the EU countries, which you are allegedly seeking. Mr. Zoran Krasic spoke of it with great argument, and I will repeat it for the public. So you yourself notice that something is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that is not in parallel political practice. In some ways, the Web site of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is evidence. The Web site of the National Assembly proves the accuracy of what it says. Through the website, not only the MPs, primarily Serbian citizens, representatives of public information funds, international factors, are informed of what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, the website is like a land book to you. It's believed to be true until proven otherwise. We believe that what it says on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is true. Here is what it says, among other things, the list of MPs, says the number of MPs found – 78. Anyone who knows little about computers and the Internet can get to this list that I have come to, the number of MPs found – 78. Now, watch out, what an absurd, what an impression, international factors, and also this famous Council of Europe can gain about the credibility of this National Assembly. Be careful of the illogicalities and watch out for absurdities. Not to read all the names. Among other things, Antic Zoran, the Progressive MP group, Serbia, the SRS party. Arsic Veroljub, Advocacy Group, Serbia, SRS party. Babic Zoran, the Prosperity Group Forward, Serbia, the SRS party. Budimirovic Jelena, Prost, Serbia, SRS party etc. Now I ask you, Mrs Comic, as representative of the ruling coalition, and the entire ruling coalition and Hope Kolundji, is it possible by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that one political party has two parliamentary clubs? From what it says on the National Assembly site, and I, for example, believe this is true until proven otherwise, it turns out that one party may have two parliamentary clubs. Now, if we stick to almost what's written here, it turns out that the SRS has two parliamentary clubs. One is called the SRS Parliament Club, and the other is called the Forward Parliamentary Club, Serbia. This is, of course, not possible under the Rules of Procedure, and we only ask when it comes to determining these delegations that, as members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegations, representatives of political parties who participated in the elections, who have legitimacy and legality from the position of the Constitution, the law, from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that these delegations should not be attended by those belonging to the SNS political party. I don't want to talk about SNS ideology at all. Let's just say, I don't want to say that it's possible that someone who thinks of themselves as a serious person, who wants Serbia to believe him, not so long ago, would now quote a 1991 or 1992 statement by Tomislav Nikolic, he could say, "That's a long time ago, it's changed times, it's changed circumstances, and so on." The man here in the summer of 2007 said that our ideology, referring to the ideology of the SRS, is a Chetnic ideology. You can check for stenograms. Just a year later, that man changes his political beliefs by 180 degrees. He says he never said that he recognises Croatia's internationally recognised borders, that he is for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, etc., but I'm not getting into it at all. It is possible that such a dramatic change may occur in humans and such a salto mortal. It's possible, there's no ideology at all here right now. We are going back to the fundamental issue – whether there are differences in Serbia between political parties that participated in the elections and political parties that did not participate in the elections. Is there a difference between parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties? We think so. The SRS considers that all the rights provided for by the Rules of Procedure belong to MPs who are members of political parties who participated in parliamentary life. Now I ask you, Mrs. Kolundjia, what is contrary to the principles of the Council of Europe. Did the Council of Europe ever say that everything was the same, that you participated in elections, that you did not participate, that you were parliamentary, that you were not parliamentary? It's all the same. He never said! The key to democracy, what Mr. Micunovic doesn't know or won't say, is not just a number. If democracy were just a number, then what would happen to modern humanity. Democracy is primarily a choice, democracy is, above all, the will of the people and the will of the citizens. Of course, these days, in the regime media and the pro-regime media, they're running a murderous campaign against the SRS. She's manipulating herself with public opinion research. Among other things, Serbia's citizens are simmering with a number of information about the rating of certain political parties. I will not enter those studies, I will not say that they are true, nor that they are not true, but even if they are true, some party of Tomislav Nikolic won 100 MPs in the next election, 150, all 250, I will be the first to take off their hat, but until then, gentlemen, you must respect the results of the parliamentary elections held on 11 May 2008. If you do not respect that, you will bring Serbia's state into a state of legal and political chaos. Perhaps this chaos is right for you, perhaps this is a statement by Hope Kolundzhija just so that our delegation does not go to Strasbourg, to the Council of Europe, that there is no hearing the voice of Serbia, which is not only DS, about what is actually happening in KIM and what is happening in the state of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Finally, after my time runs out, Mrs. Komic, I end up in a few seconds, the regimeal media from Tomislav Nikolic are trying to make a sacrifice. He is a man who cannot speak of the National Assembly - buzzing, corrupt, uneducated radicals do not allow him to express his position. Makiyaveli said that when a country is in crisis, it should be returned to the foundations on which the country is built. I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the state of Serbia built on stealing, thieving and kidnapping? Some countries in Europe may be, but Serbia is not. And if we listen to Makiavelli and go back to the causes of what's going on in the National Assembly, then it's not benching, it's not throwing away, it's stealing a mandate. He said, I think that thought is still true today: "To do evil by defending itself, there is no crime." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13153	The word has a national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 205 and 206. The question is for Boris Tadic and Minister Jeremic. Today, a scandalous statement by terrorist Hashim Thaci was released in Pristina's Koha Ditore. Koha Ditore conveys the writing of Vienna's Standard, and I will quote that statement: "Hashim Thaci has estimated that Serbia should apologize to the citizens of Kosovo for the genocide committed and that it is time for Belgrade to consider what he did to Kosovo. There is no room for Serbia in Kosovo, because Serbia was here by force. They occupied this country and executed the genocide. The face of Serbia is the face of genocide, and Kosovo has never been Serbian." So here's what the DS policy and the current regime has led to. Terrorist Hashim Thaci couldn't state this scandalous stance without the support of Brussels and Washington. Thaci said what the EU thinks. So, this is an indicator of the EU's relationship with Serbia, and representatives of the regime usually continue to rush into an organisation aimed at declaring the Serb people genocide. We ask that Boris Tadic and Minister Jeremic be made known urgently, what he will do when it comes to this scandalous attitude expressed by terrorist Hashim Thaci, especially because Boris Tadic has the custom of apologizing to everyone, so something like that might come to his mind this time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13155	The stenogram's working, she's probably thinking of an ankle. 225th and 226th National MP Elena Christmas-Talijan, because members of 205th and 206th are members that regulate mistrust with the government. You'll see from your insight into the stenogram that you said 205 and 206. Because it's a lapus, which is why I'm saying that the stenogram goes into 225 and 226, because it's obvious in the exhibit that you're thinking about those two members. He has the floor of MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13156	Today's agenda includes the selection of delegations in international parliamentary organisations. However, something needs to be said at the outset about the importance of participation in international parliamentary organisations. Each state has an active government diplomacy, as in the legal system most countries are foreign affairs related to the executive body of government, the government and the government carry out this type of work in their daily activities. That is why there is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thus the state protects its interest in international relations. There's another way to do it and there's got to be a state interest in international relations, and that's what it is. Parliamentary diplomacy. It is a somewhat more complex, more complex phenomenon than when it comes to ordinary government diplomacy, which is often one-way in both political terms and, in practice, represents exclusively a resultant relationship in the ruling coalition or represents a ruling political group and represents those interests and those of the citizens who have elected these parties, and parliamentary diplomacy is more complex in this sense that in most international parliamentary organisations it implies that participation in these organisations is a proportionate structure of the parliaments of the host countries. This means that the Serbian Parliament, in all the parliamentary organisations in which we are participating, will be represented in proportion to the political participation of the parties in the Assembly itself. Why is that significant? It is not only important for us, it is also important because of those we are working with and who we contact when we participate in such gatherings, because we will be able to, for example, be at an international forum in an international organisation that has its own parliamentary assembly, to talk to representatives not only of the ruling structure in those countries, but also with opposition MPs. It is often very important, as many of these opposition MPs may be part of the ruling set of elections in these concrete countries the next day. So it is possible to talk very openly and normally about all things with British conservatives, who are not in power in the UK, as well as with laborists, to open up various issues concerning the interests of our country, above all, because we represent our country through our Parliament. This is how this fine parliamentary diplomacy takes place. In order for people to understand this better, especially those watching this assembly, it must be said that this parliamentary diplomacy is not in vain. If it were a barren and vain job, it would not be in the secretariats and parliamentary groups of these parliamentary congregations that are looking for people who submit different reports, resolutions and decisions would be adopted, if these resolutions and decisions do not have any impact on diplomatic relations and the international position of the countries concerned, especially those countries that are members of certain organisations. In this regard, when we are not even a member, in the full sense of a single organisation, but we are associated with a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of some of these organisations, as is the case with the NATO Pact, it is not going to be that our MPs would enjoy the circumstances of being at a gathering that is, in fact, under the auspices of this Atlantic alliance, but because we have the opportunity to meet with those MPs representing the countries that are members of that North Atlantic alliance, who can exchange views on different issues, and on the international position of our country and other countries. The most important of these organisations is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because it is the oldest European union of this type, gathering 46 member states at the moment. Since 2003, we have been a full member of the Council of Europe, we are involved in the work of the Committee of Ministers through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There are still a number of institutions of the Council of Europe that act, such as the Court of Human Rights, it is already known to everyone, such as the Commissioner for Human Rights, it is an extremely important institution, an institution that unites the importance of the Committee of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly, whose head office is in the Parliamentary Assembly building, the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Right now, it's British Terry Davis, and it's about to be someone else. Why is it important for us to share in these organizations? I said a little bit, there are some decisions being made, there is a debate not to debate, but to carry out certain conclusions that each in itself can put appropriate pressure on the Member States and other international entities and in some way model the current policy. This was, in fact, the key reason why some parliamentarians, led by the interests of their own states, because they were part of the ruling set, tried on several occasions to debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Kosovo and Metohija. These attempts have always gone as some kind of attack on our country's integrity and so far we've always been able to defend ourselves against that attack. When you look at how many countries that participate in the Council of Europe represent the position of an independent Kosovo or a far-reaching position towards our need to defend our integrity, then you come to the conclusion that it is very possible for every session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to easily pass any resolution or, God forbid, a recommendation that has a binding power towards the Committee of Ministers, which, practically, our country would commit, as a member of that organisation, to act contrary to our interests. It is our duty to try to stand up to something like that, and in the past two or three years, without any false modesty, by leading that delegation, we have done it successfully. We are each such an insult, acting on amendments and preparing it carefully, through work on committees, through lobbying, through parliamentary groups and participation in meetings of the presidency or so on. The bureaus of these groups, we managed to block and modify the most difficult parts of the text that have been prepared for us through the amendments. What we haven't been able to do so far, because it was very difficult, we haven't been able to place our wording of a resolution that would suit us completely, because in that part it was impossible to find so broad a consensus that this thing would be done, because one diplomacy, both parliamentary and this government diplomacy, depends on one another. Those who feel that parliamentary diplomacy is not necessary to us, are the same ones who think so, who think that Parliament is a black hole, that this is something unnecessary for citizens, that we should take the stick and beat up all those who sit here, even though it is the highest body of the legislative authority, often we ourselves, by our own behavior, which we must admit to ourselves, we make a little contribution to it. Regardless of all this, it is a poor country in which it is possible and allowed that, those who rule the media space, often assisted on our part, create a picture of a very important state institution like Parliament, what is the government, which has been the government in the public for years now, how do we contribute? In different ways. Today's session, the way we started the debate today is certainly one negative contribution, but when you enter into one discussion, when you enter into one controversy about something that is not good, you have only two options: one is to keep quiet and let those who break the rules or do not do well do so without distractions, to create the impression of some unity or peace in Parliament, and another is the possibility of reacting, to say what was wrong and to try all together to fix it. This story about international delegations, precisely because of the proportional composition, is important to be completed by consensus of the parliamentary group. So three or four months ago, we started talking, if you remember, we made a proposal. Meanwhile, there have been some problems related to Parliament's structure, I wouldn't repeat it, some predecessors have talked about it, and we've come to a situation where it looks like there's no solution to it. We have indicated, as an opposition, the DSS in particular and other parliamentary groups, that I think the LDP, too, has been very persistent, that it is in fact the responsibility of those who are legitimateizing themselves with a number of 126 MPs, at least, to resolve the issue. We have now come to a complicated situation, not only when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but also to other parliamentary assemblies, especially when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to be blocked in a position to react and work there. There are some things happening that are in progress and concern the interests of the state. At today's meeting of the Political Committee, which takes place as part of the first session of the January Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, KIM is on the agenda. The reporter is Bjorn von Sidov, a socialist from Sweden. We've known about this before. We got that written notice. The commitment of this parliament, regardless of an internal conflict that cannot be resolved in relation to the Rules of Procedure, the issue had to be overcome. What happened in the meantime? To resolve the problem, the National Assembly president sent a letter to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on two occasions, warning them that we have not, in accordance with our rules, yet established a new composition of the delegation, but asked on two occasions the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to respect the continuity of the members still present in Parliament, so that we do not lose our continuity in the business. One letter was in October, the second letter on January 16th of this year. Then, probably just for political reasons that are domestic marifettelu, it comes to the fact that our parliamentary delegation, as the speaker of the assembly, is presented to the Parliamentary Assembly, is not leaving today and will probably not be able to travel these days, and we are missing one session, which can be important to us for more reasons. The argument that was heard here today, that at that session, the plenary session, there is nothing interesting for us, talks or about the ignorance of someone who has said such a thing, or, now Mrs Nada Kolundzia tells me – there is no agenda, ignorance and ignorance of the rules and ways of working of the Parliamentary Assembly. Let me explain what this is about. If there is nothing on the parliamentary assembly agenda in the session from Monday to Friday at the plenary session, it does not mean that there are no committees and that certain decisions are not progressing. Those decisions are being prepared for a parliamentary assembly that may be in April. In order for anything to be voted out, I repeat that once again, people have to understand that, in order for anything to be implemented from what we want to implement there, we have to participate on committees, because committees are preparing decisions that 99.9% vote on in the Parliamentary Assembly, as voted on committees. It is extremely difficult to vote anything else in the parliamentary assembly compared to what has passed on the committee. You have to understand that. This has worked on a few occasions, and that is why we have been marked in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, maltene as a miracle, in the previous meeting. That's what we had in front of us. What did you want on Friday? On Friday, you wanted this delegation not to travel with an explanation that it does not exist, because it would solve a conflict in Parliament that has been silent for months and you thought, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, above all from the DS, that it is a good method because it has a foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where delegations are said to be elected by the Assembly. This is not controversial, but it appears as a dispute – what do we do in a practical sense in relation to the great loss we are going to have today? I must now tell you the knowledge that I came to before reporting for the word and it comes from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which will shed a different light on our discussion and talks in the coming hours, which is that the Parliamentary Assembly today responded at 12.00 hours to the letter by Slavica Đukić-Dejanović from 16 January this year and verified the mandates of the delegation so far: Milos Aligrudić, President, Head of Delegation, Mr Dragoljub Micunović DS – member, Mr Milos Jevtic DS – member, Mr Tomislav Nikolic SNS – member, Mr Dragan Todorovović SRS – member, Mr Željko Ivanji G17 Plus, seventh place vacant, two seats in the alternate seats, Ms Donka Banović DSS, Natasa Jovanović SRS, Vjerica SRS, Mr. Željko Željko Ivanji G17 plus, seventh place in the deputy seats, Ms. I will immediately say that this composition does not correspond to the state of the parliamentary groups and the legitimacy of the Serbian Parliament. That's true. This composition cannot represent this assembly of the National Assembly of Serbia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe according to our internal rules and logic, but in the conflict between this fact and the fact that the ruling coalition, again on the same side, was unable to secure a three-month vote for the normal delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this was the only step we could take to protect the interests of the state there, because there no one asks what our voting procedure is. There no one asks if our voting procedure is such that we vote publicly, secretly, whether we need more than half of those present, less than half, whether the President of Parliament is self-performing, as Dragoljub Micunovic used to do in the Federal Parliament. It's important for them to get a notice. It is important for the state to have the continuity of the work there, and for us MPs it is important, for what the ruling coalition has obligation, that as soon as possible, yesterday, and not today, we vote on a new delegation of the SE Parliamentary Assembly. And, Mrs. Kolundzhija, you can here, if you don't, I will find you extremely malice, confirm the next thing – the head of the DSS Group Milos Aligrudic, i.e. My smallness, in the last three months, he has repeatedly insisted on you and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic on the agenda. I have told you on many occasions that we are ready, regardless of the reasons held by the SRS, which can be principled, legal, etc., just so that we do not miss the continuity, that we vote for the proposed lists proposed by Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, even if we revote the SRS. That's something I said openly. Now, after the pay phone, I'm telling you in public. I'm asking you, what took you three or four months to get this on the agenda? We have come to the situation that thanks, above all, to the behaviour of Mr Micunovic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, we are discussing their responsibility or irresponsibility in the proceedings, to the poor or difficult results for the state of Serbia, which we are currently coming to, because of our failure to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and we are coming to the conclusion that at this point the DSS cannot agree with the composition. How after everything that happened, how after I was informed the other day that Mr. Micunovic voted in the January session, when it came to Lord Johnston, that now we can easily go over the fact that this person should be the head of the delegation. To be clear, the DSS doesn't belong to this place. We're not looking for him. We believe that this place belongs to the largest political party of the ruling coalition. If you want it, it'll be anyone you've assigned, even if Mr. Micunovic does. The second thing is whether we will vote on it under these circumstances or whether you will vote on it most of the time. That's not the problem. It'll never be. It's a matter of extreme moral nature. [[Applause]] If one of the recommendations required by the Council of Europe, proposed by Lord Russell Johnston, votes with abstention, and the British MPs vote against, there is a list of the Council of Europe, if the DS MPs do not participate in parts of that vote by not putting cards in their parliamentary units in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, then the question arises – can we tie it to the so-called State policy, the continuity of the state policy that DS has. Of course we can't. Does this have anything to do with the behavior of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic today? [[Applause]] Does this have anything to do with the acceptance of Eulex in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because one of those amendments, against which we were all members of the G17 plus, and Micunovic was – for, was that the EU mission was implemented on Serbia's territory. We agreed to all be against that amendment. Mr. Micunović was in. I didn't see it, I was just distracted by it later and yesterday, the day before, I took down the list. I saw what the vote looked like. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how we can solve the problems of the Serbian state. Of course, Mr. Micunovic will be head of the delegation. Most will vote it, but you have to imagine it, how you did and how much work, how much of whose presence was at those sessions? How many individual members of the delegation, despite their verbal commitment to unity, have worked realistically? What does it look like and we will also remove these documents, the presence at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? What does it look like to hire some MPs? Where are the five-day session in Strasbourg, Monday through Friday? Are they located in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or elsewhere? For some, it is easy to determine that they were not reported before and afternoon and that they did not participate in sessions and cards. If we think parliamentary diplomacy is something that's a sign of equality with a black hole, as it's said in the media, and if you think it's nothing, then we can behave any way we want. I think that's significant. I wouldn't define myself to be a parliamentarian in the last term, and I could have agreed with my political party to be somewhere else, that I believed this was a black hole. No one would ever want to sit in a black hole, but I did this out of my own beliefs. Everything we did in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, at least some, we did out of our deep convictions and therefore had tangible results. Every act we took there and every action we took in this relationship had only one goal – to achieve the results. That's what happened. I urge you that when you vote for these delegations, whatever composition you vote, and I would like them to vote as soon as possible, if I can today, although it may be my appeal to all of us in this assembly, to make an effort to complete it, it would be very good to do so, but then we have to make sure that this job is done appropriately in one of our relative agreements between all of us, to identify the state interests and to know what we are doing there, not that the situation is as it is now or as it turned out on Friday last week. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13157	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13158	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true what Mr. Aligrudic told you, by making one mistake that is essential. Mr Aligrudic, please return, you have read the memo to the Council of Europe, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Secretary-General, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. But the truth is different. The truth is, Mrs. Kolundjia, only one. We, our delegation, are forbidden to go only to the Sofitel Hotel because Mr. Micunovic has charged millions in compensation because he slipped in the bathtub once. The other thing is, why are we being prevented from participating there today? Because of the fact that you deceived the Serbian public, Mrs Kolundzija, not knowing the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Europe, that Dragoljub Micunovic deceived Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic and disaved us in our responsible state work, and Mr Aligrudic was wrong, because today, and this was officially taken off the Council of Europe website ten minutes ago, an accreditation of MPs from the old delegation, which is legitimate by letter, but there is no SNS, because it says fine in English who these representatives are. I have to read it for the public, because the Council of Europe does not know any phantom parties, but knows parties that participated in the elections and that give their legitimate representatives. We'll talk about it on the second item of the agenda. It is not a mistake for them as on the site of the National Assembly, such as some who do not know anything before, throws it away. It is a mistake. This isn't a mistake! They only know the parties that went to the elections and who have their own representatives. Well, it says so nicely: "Milos Aligrudić, DSS – head of delegation, members: Donka Banović, deputy member, DSS, member Željko Ivanji G17 Plus, Milos Jeftic DS, Natasa Jovanovic SRS, Elvira Kovac SVM, Dragoljub Micunović DS, Tomislav Nikolic SRS, Vjerica Radeta SRS, Dragan Todorovic SRS, Natasa Vuković DS" and then members of our team, i.e. the secretary of delegation and Ms. Ana Milanović, who is also in the translation secretariat. It won't happen, Mrs. Kolundjia, what you do in the Serbian Parliament. That can't happen in the Council of Europe. He can do it on the first RTS program, and that's an injustice. The party appears every week at eight o'clock, off all terms. Let's get a little bit of equal representation, but that phantom party since last night, every night at eight o'clock, in a rematch, it would be fine if we had all the appointments, and not that some exclusively appear on Sundays at 8:00 and people are watching it, and we're just from the assembly pay phone. Therefore, the truth is one thing and we will now request that Dragoljub Micunovic resign as a moral act. I'm surprised, I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic, how come Mr. Micunović has such energy and it's how he got back. Last year, January 21st, when I was with him and Mr. Dacic, and Mr. Aligrudic was then president of our delegation, traveling to Strasbourg, he said – well, I can't anymore, I'm an old man! In this new constellation, he wants to be a Caliph instead of a Caliph, and in a year he's older, and the increasing energy he has. He wants to be head of delegation. I don't get it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13159	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13160	Madam Chairman, I call on Article 101 and ask that in the day of voting the National Assembly be made known that Ms Natasa Jovanovic was the gravest injured by the Rules of Procedure, because of the way she spoke about Professor. Dragoljub Micunović. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13161	The National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. I would also like to ask Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs who receive the invitation not to disturb the course of the session. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have reported that I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I believe that the violation of the Rules of Procedure has just been done by Mrs. Hope Kolundji in her previous presentations, and here we are now. I do not want to relieve you of responsibility, however, it seems to me that the Rules of Procedure provide for the following procedure – the one who advertises the Rules of Procedure, says, quotes or quotes the Rules of Procedure, points to an explanation of what is hurt and how. You, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are obliged to give your reasons, so if the MP is not satisfied, then ask that in the Parliament's vote on the injury be made known in the day of the vote. I think that's how it works. I think it is illegal and unwarranted to look silently at the insistence of the Kolundji hope, that before you give an explanation of whether or not there has been or has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there is a request for a statement in the day to vote. Whether it's agreed or not, but you are objectively, silently, on your part, Mrs. Kolundjia, amnesty to give an answer whether someone hurt the Rules of Procedure or did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. In this case, Miss Natasa Jovanovic. And for you, Mrs. Kolundzija, I apologize for taking you through your web surfing, it might not be bad for you to come out and say "something in your defense" after what you heard, first of all from Mr. Martinovic. There are some facts here that disqualify in one of the most serious ways everything you said and what you just spilled and promoted from this pay phone. First of all, you talked about the need to achieve political agreement, so as the SRS is not ready to comply with the basic rules, you've taught us lessons about losing mandates and what it is that the MPs lose their mandates. You haven't told us a single word about how MPs get or gain the right to do so. What Mr. Aligrudic put out, in the most serious way, I think it was meant to make you go out for this pay phone and say at least one single sentence. Here you are the greatest advocate and insist on respecting the Parliament's dignity. I think that you have been deluding the public from a moment ago and brought down the dignity of the Assembly because the vast majority of the things you have said do not correspond to the truth, and this is confirmed by MP Martinovic and MP Aligrudić and Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13163	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A clear request has been made to declare the way the National MP Natasa Jovanovic addressed the National Assembly and qualified another MP. If, in any case, when MPs cross the border, it is not an example, since I would give you a warning that the example is, therefore, in their presentation, when they interfere with the behaviour of the MP to whom ad person is addressed, instead of an argument, then probably no one would be able to speak for more than 30 seconds, because after the speaker, the measure of freedom of speech is what needs to be listened very carefully and very carefully cherished. By strictly applying Article 104, you have no right either you or any of us 250 to say what any other MP should or should not do, or to disqualify him morally, or in any way prescribe when he may or may be allowed to talk about or in any way. So, that's strict, I said at the beginning that it doesn't apply to you, because if I thought you'd committed any kind of violation, I'd intervene during the speech. I'm talking at all, because you've started with your exposure one serious topic for all of us. I have a duty to tell you that I consider freedom of speech a top-notch matter to be defended in Parliament and that the strict application of Article 104 leaves many of us behind a pay phone without a single second of speech. I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours with a debate on the first item of the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] We continue our work in the afternoon. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13165	Madam Vice President, I'm reporting for an officer. 225th and 226th, and I'm looking for a notice. Given the very high importance for the municipality of Kovin and also for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and regarding the realisation of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the lease of state agricultural land. The municipality of Kovin has populated towns of Bavanište, Pločica, Skorenovac, Beli Breg, Mramorak, Deliblato, Dubovac, Gaj and has major problems compared to meeting the contractual obligations regarding the collection by the tenants. The large funds are being drained but insufficient control is being carried out, so this way I ask the Minister for Agriculture to request a detailed report and an explanation. I ask, how is it possible and is it true that a large area of agricultural land has been leased, and that the land user, under regular number one, is owned by the Realisation Report on the rental of agricultural land in the state property for a period of 1. 01 to 31. Ten. In 2008, D.O.O. "NIC-KO Agrar", from Banatski Brestovec, who numbered the land at the price of 37,000 dinars, but refused to conclude the 2008 lease agreement, with the reason that the price is high?- I'm sorry. As regards the above, the land issue commission is leased at session 9. 09. In 2008, it concluded that "at any lower price" could be concluded. Who has now authorized the Commission to rent agricultural land to conclude non-judicial settlements? The Ministry can't do that either. Whoever took the agricultural land on the territory of the Kovin municipality, whether it be Gajo, either in Skorenovac, or in Pločica, whether it be Mramork, Dubovac, Beli Breg, Deliblat, Šumark, and not to count further, must pay at the price agreed. If he does not pay at the price in time, it is known that the contract is terminated, the damages claim is filed, for the use of the land for the year in question. For some users, however, where extrajudicial settlements have been concluded, there is room for criminal charges and for the initiation of criminal proceedings. That is why I urge and inform the Public Prosecutor at the Kovin Municipal Prosecutor's Office to take appropriate measures, to request notices and to collect information on this - who concluded the contract, under what circumstances, which area? (President: Speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. I appreciate it. I'll have to take my word again a little later. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13166	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13167	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the camera can probably record the left-hand side of how many MPs are present in the ruling majority, who are and how interested they are in changing these delegations, agreeing with the composition of the National Assembly. I am reporting again under Article 104, and I insist now once again, because I want to see clearly on what principle the parliamentary majority is working on, whether it is working on a number principle or doing what citizens expect of them to do, i.e.. to work under the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the truth. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also showed the truth. So our delegation there today could have been present and could have worked, and as we speak, morals, but that's what those who think it is necessary to defend the interest of the state say. And those who think it doesn't matter say she didn't even have to go, like the president of the ZES Parliament Club, whether she's justifiably absent or not, but she's not there. Today after the new situation at 12.00 hours, the verification of the mandate is more than clear that Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, broke the Rules of Procedure, damaged the state of Serbia because she listened to a man who was strangled by vanity and made him behave like this because it was otherwise impossible to explain, so she listened to his interpretation, his interpretation proved to be incorrect... So Mr. Micunović... On this basis, it is more than clear that even he has absolutely nothing to ask for more in that delegation, because he has misread all the documents on the basis of which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is working. What will he do there if he does not know how the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe works, and where should he be President of the delegation?- I'm sorry. So, I insist that in the voting day, the Assembly declares whether Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has violated the Rules of Procedure. It is clear that because she did not send a delegation, she did not sign the solution, so she did not send a delegation there to represent the interests of the Serbian state, and only because she listened to one man. I insist once again that in that day the vote be made, and let us see how the Parliament's majority behaves according to what is true, whether they vote it or say it is the night-day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13168	The National Assembly will declare this request in the voting day. Neither National Assembly President Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic nor MP Dragoljub Micunovic violated the business procedure in any of the steps in forming a delegation. The Messenger of the people throws it, when it is sent, and not by formation. National MP, you should know that it is in a delegation, which you claim to be legitimate, and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. The minister cannot, on any basis, be a member of a parliamentary delegation. I ask you to use your right to highlight the violations of the Rules of Procedure, but not to deceive neither the National Assembly nor the public, because members of the delegation that you insist should have been in Strasbourg today simply has no mandate, no legitimacy. If there was only one minister in it, it couldn't, not because it doesn't reflect the proportion of the National Assembly. People's MP, Dragan Shormaz, I have already said that the National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13169	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, volunteerism and the arrogant relationship of the ruling coalition, and above all DS, according to this House, towards this country and according to the country's obligations continue. In line with the Rules of Procedure of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Aligrudic scheduled a session of the Committee for 13.45 hours. At 1350, there were six MPs, none of the ruling coalition's representatives found it appropriate to attend the committee. Of course, the quorum was gone and then Mr Aligrudic only explained to the MPs the reasons for launching the initiative that we should have further elaborated. Of course, according to the agreement, coalition agreements and agreements between the heads of the parliamentary groups, that place belongs to DS and of course Mr. Micunovic will be, regardless of everything he has done and should not have done, and should have, continued, the chairman of the committee. It can only be one big minus for our parliament. Because of this relationship, we today do not have representatives of Serbia in the Council of Europe Parliament, although it is debated about Kosovo, although issues of vital interest to this country are being discussed. Of course, Mr. Micunovic, who, along the way, deceived the President of the Assembly that we do not have a delegation, and accordingly she made the decision she made, and this morning we had the opportunity to see that Mr. Aligrudic had checked and found that the verified mandates of these members of the delegation of this Parliament and had the right to be present at the session, to participate in both plenary sessions and committees, committees, therefore, thanks to the boast of one man's relationship, Serbia has been denied the opportunity today to defend its interests in the Parliament of the Council of Europe. When Mr. Micunovic can, why can't Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, who has declared that she will advocate to all forces that no SRS MP will be in the membership of that delegation, that... (President: National MP, which member of the Rules of Procedure do you consider injured? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that in the day of the vote... (President: National MP, which member of the Rules of Procedure do you consider injured? ) Article 225 and Article 226. I ask that in the voting day the Assembly declare whether... (President: Messenger of the People, from whom you request notice on the basis of Article. 225th and 226th? I ask for a notice and an explanation as to why a part of Parliament is being treated so arrogantly? (President: Who are you asking for an explanation? ) I ask that in the day of voting the Assembly be made known about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13170	People's MP, I warn you to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to treat the National Assembly with disrespect and the chairmanship. Please call upon the right to receive the word, and on the basis of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with care, follow our own obligations in the exercise of the right to a word. On behalf of all the MPs, I ask the service, given the information provided by MP Momir Markovic, regardless of which authority and organisation he has asked for a notice, to draw the following from the stenogram: "In the name of the National Assembly, I request a notice from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe," the Office of the Secretary-General and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as the Bureau, "who is in the name of the National Assembly and with what powers and how have we communicated with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the last 96 hours? "And to be sent officially to the Council of Europe. National MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I'm asking you a question, and if you find it appropriate that this question is not in your jurisdiction, then evaluate to whom to forward it further and to whom to direct it. I am asking a question - who is responsible for what is happening to our parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe? We saw that the delegation didn't leave, and the meeting started. Here we have a proposal that includes some MPs who did not participate in the elections. I would like to remind the ruling majority and this authority that this European Union, which you are so keen on, is demeaning the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people enough anyway, as well as all this about our delegation, so we do not need the participation of the delegations, because we are on a certain blacklist with them anyway. It may be a comfort to you and that we are not the only ones the EU underestimates. If you followed, you may have noticed that there is a fair exhibition in the hall of the building where the Council of Europe sessions are held where all countries are represented in an appropriate manner. One of the member states of the European Union, more specifically Bulgaria, has been presented with one sculpture in the form, which is exactly what it says is "shutsugar toilet". Of course, official Sofia and Bulgaria have staged a protest against the organisers of the exhibition. They apologized by that old principle, but did nothing to prevent it, but even that sculpture was not even moved from that hall, but they covered it with a certain black curtain. There is one Bulgarian, our neighbour, who is also a member of the EU, and is symbolically, and is basically behind the black curtain, because we know that many EU officials are talking about Bulgaria being a black hole on the map of Europe. That is why I am saying that if Serbia ever enters the EU, we will certainly be more of a black hole in that map of Europe and in some possible exhibition that will be modified, Serbia may be presented in a worse way – perhaps with some maimed corpse or something else. So I really ask you not to contribute to Serbia, which has negative treatment and a negative situation in the EU anyway, not to contribute to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13172	You have referred me to the question of who is responsible – the National Assembly is responsible, which has not confirmed within six months a decision on the previous composition of the delegation or made a decision on a new selection of delegations, in this case a parliamentary delegation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and both for the Parliamentary Assembly and for all other parliamentary organisations and institutions in which our Assembly participates. Responsibility is common, and the reason for the decision to date is the inability to reach a political agreement on the composition of a new delegation, following the May 11th election and the establishment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is a People's MP, Petar Jojic, and he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13173	Madam Vice President, I will proceed because I haven't had time to explain and ask the question I'm looking for an answer. In fact, many countries from the state fund were leased to individual agricultural producers and certain companies in the Kovin municipality. However, one of these companies is a land user "NIC-KO Agrar" from Banatski Brestovac. He numbered the land at the price of 37,000 dinars, but refused, therefore, the firm refused to conclude a lease contract for 2008, with a reason that the price is high. In this regard, however, the Commission's leased land refused, which it did well, to give, at any price, lower prices, rather than market prices, to rent state agricultural land. I request a notice from the Minister of Agriculture – did he initiate the termination procedure for the concluded agreement? Secondly, is the debt collection procedure in place because it's in possession, and it's not paying, according to this municipality report, so it doesn't pay the rent? The inhabited town of Skorenovo has 12 tenants who have rented land, but do not pay the rent. I'm also asking for an answer, because citizens who intend to use land for agricultural purposes, too, are asking for it at market prices to be made possible, to reparate that land, so that they can take 10, 20, 30 or 50 hectares for rent, and that they also process the country, that the country is not in the parloga, and on the other hand, that the money goes into the budget. As far as these bids are concerned, and as far as the conclusion of the extra-judicial settlements are concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot violate the Law on State Agricultural Land, and this does so from the moment the law is passed to this day. It is not possible to conclude an out-of-court settlement without having previously carried out the skill and assessment of the market value – can this land be leased or not? It's a case in the inhabited town of Plocic. The tablet is a wonderful place in the municipality of Kovin, where there was a strong and well-profit company that was engaged, alongside warfare and livestock. That cattle farm was an example and a reputation for the whole ex-SFRJ. Citizens of the place were unable to participate in the lease of agricultural land here in their place. That is why I ask and ask the Ministry of Agriculture for an answer – what happened, what is the status of agricultural goods that was in this place and this farm? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I've got to get back to you. You won't mind, but I have to ask you to let me do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13174	There's a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13175	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to member 104. I don't understand why you explained it at all. I asked nicely for the Parliament to come forward. You could've gone over it. Then you interpreted something like that that I didn't say at all. So I called on the letter sent to the Council of Europe by the President of the Assembly. What black Hansel Dacic?- I'm sorry. The letter says nicely who was announced as members of the delegation, MPs who were members of the previous delegation in the previous term, and that they now have the mandate of MPs. What black Hansel Dacic, who mentioned him?- I'm sorry. No one mentioned him. I have called on the letter from the President of Parliament, not the previous call of the delegation. Why did you interpret me like that? It's a public deception. Let Parliament declare that. Admit it once. Look up to Boris Tadic, as he confessed to the mistake. The man said – we did, we stole when there was a vote to elect the governor of the National Bank, Neda Arneric was not there, she was in Bodrum. The man confessed! It is the most responsible Bojan Pajtic, who did not answer, is now his vice president and Prime Minister, but admitted. Admit it at that vote that you've already made a mistake. You've made a mistake! No delegation has been sent, and today the Political Committee is the subject of KIM. You didn't send a delegation, and the Council of Europe said the delegation could come and verify the delegation, that's a fact. The fact that you now want to investigate, to see who, in which way, came up with this data and how this Council of Europe could give everyone the information -- so it's called democracy, so it's called the public in the work. Just because you're hiding what you're doing doesn't mean that the Council of Europe is going to hide what it's doing. What she decides is public, she knows. People decided, for them the delegation was a Serbian delegation. They verified it at 12:00 today, whether you like it or not. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic made a mistake not signing the solution and did not send MPs there to do the job they were chosen to do, and that must be known.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13176	People's MP, there were no violations of Article 104. Your presentation made it clear that you wanted all the information and it is my duty to provide you with all the information. This is the only reason why I asked that part of the stenogram be made public, cannot be more public, sent to the relevant institutions, and members of the Rules of Procedures which describe and prescribe the work and president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the President of the Assembly have not been violated. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27 and Article 104. Mrs. Komic, I am sure that you had absolutely no part in all this that is happening to the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but don't, in this case, let's not just take the blame, but rather dissuade or misinform both the Serbian Parliament and the public. What kind of Ivica Dacic you're talking about, what minister, about Albianic and all, I really don't understand, Mrs. Comic? Who even mentions Hansel Dacic and Albianic? They were not in the proposal of Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic to be members of our delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly. You're further saying that's why the delegation couldn't go. That's not true! She did not leave because the Democratic Party wanted our delegation not to go to Strasbourg – that is the basic reason. They have already read to you the composition of this delegation, confirmed by the Council of Europe, on the basis of a letter from the President of the Assembly. Mrs. Comic, how many times do we have to explain to you that the Council of Europe is asking for something from every parliament that sends its delegation. You by letter from Parliament inform who is in that delegation and they assume that we have chosen a delegation, in line with the recommendations made by the Council of Europe. We never had the same number of male and female members. That is why the Council of Europe has not returned us, as Dragoljub Micunovic has also accepted, although Parliament has never voted in favour of the delegation, as did Predrag Markovic's delegation. He just didn't go into procedure. If someone had asked a question in the verification of their mandates in the Council of Europe, then I could have had problems and in some ways that the delegation might not be accepted or certain members of that delegation, but essentially this is a very simple matter, that the DS has deceived the public first and that the DS has prevented the delegation from going to the Council of Europe. The question is, what's the motive, what did she do it for? It's another thing now, but it's the fact that it did DS. I don't know how else to prove it to you. You have a letter from the President of the Assembly, you have confirmation from the Council of Europe that a delegation has been accepted. Only DS took responsibility, which is why we don't have members of our delegation in Strasbourg today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13178	National MP, the composition of a delegation for multilateral parliamentary institutions, a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is the topic of the point of this agenda and the delegation that we are changing is in the following composition: Members: Milos Aligrudic, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Milos Jevtic, Željko Ivanji and Ivica Dacic. The deputy members of the delegations at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are: Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Vukovic, Donka Banovic, Miloljub Albianic and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci. The delegation's secretary is Ratomir Milic. That's the topic of the agenda. We are changing this delegation, with part of the working day being used with full business right to explain the previous issues, and now we are at the agenda point – the delegation decision. Without any intention, because I can't disavow or misinformation in any way, I'm reading to you the composition of the delegation. The MPs want to have all the information and that was why I asked to be delivered to the National Assembly who is with which powers and when in the last 96 hours he communicated with the Secretary-General, the services of the Secretary-General and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So I have expressed myself very precisely with the aim of obtaining all the information necessary for the work of MPs in the National Assembly, and the name of the MP then, and now the Minister of the Interior, the First Deputy and First Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is part of the delegation, which we are changing. National MP Dragan Todorovic says they did not accept him. Here's some new information. In order not to manipulate information about unauthorized access to information, that is why I felt that it was most public that the entire Assembly might be informed of what it was about. National MP Elvira Kovac wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13179	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am one, more specifically the first on the list of speakers on this first item of the agenda and I will speak when we finally begin the debate. I've now reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians earlier, and now the Hungarian coalition, in the previous National Assembly meeting, had three MPs, and now four. Andrea Galgo-Ferenci of 18 July 2007 is not an MP and somewhere in September that same year 2007, the composition of this delegation has changed, so I believe that I, as a deputy member of this delegation, in which I have really worked, hope that in the future I will also have the opportunity to work in this delegation, as I am in the proposals, cannot say that I demand an apology, but I suggest that before you read who the members of the delegations are to check whether, in the meantime, the composition of that delegation has not changed yet. Because of the debate, I don't want to stand on anyone's side, it's funny that in the media and here as well, there's an impression that there's a national side and there's a ruling majority, there's two blocks that are discussing. It's too late. It's too late to discuss this subject right now. Later, when I talk about the agenda, I'll explain in more detail why it's too late. I just want to explain that it's pointless to talk about why this old delegation is now, whether it's legal, legitimate, is, isn't. Indeed, Mr. Ivica Dacic was a member of the delegation, but it is right that those who say, all citizens, and all of us, and I have just checked on the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly site, whose potentials, or accreditations today, are approved on that list precisely because they are no longer MPs, such as Mr. Albianic, who in the meantime became the director of the public enterprise, but the other interested ones, and all accreditations are approved, are now MPs, and most of them, except Donka Banovic, are in the proposal for a new delegation. So we believe that the solution is that no one left yesterday, or today that no one attends the session, I would really not like to use the word "scandalous", but it is certainly not useful for this country and the SVM does not support that we do not have a representative in Strasbourg today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13180	Once again, there is no violation of Article 104. I have read the composition of the delegation that this Assembly has decided for the last time, and that is the composition that we are changing within this point. So, in order to avoid confusion, I can read the names one more time. National MP Dragan Todorovic says – please. Members of a valid delegation: Milos Aligrudic, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Milos Jevtic, Željko Ivanji and Ivica Dačić. Members' deputies: Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Vukkovic, Donka Banović, Milojub Albianic and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci. The delegation's secretary is Ratomir Milic. What is currently under way is a session of the National Assembly at which we are making a decision on the composition of a delegation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Our proposal, and that is the only reason why I have asked for further information on who it is and what powers I have communicated with the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly, with its services, with the President of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly in general, and on behalf of and with the powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The delegation decision is made by us. The jurisdiction of the National Assembly is to change these seven, plus six names, and the seven plus six names I've read is our last will by voting. Today, that is, when we finish all the points of the three agenda, we will vote on the new composition of the delegation. This is the delegation the Assembly has decided on. That's the information I have as official information on the secretary. National MP Vjerica Radeta places a place for violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of Natasa Jovanovic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13181	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising Article 104 because the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, not because you have voluntarily spoken something that is not true, but because of my colleague, Elvira Kovac. In fact, it became a few months later, she will correct me if I make mistakes, the MP of her national party – SVM. We've had an amendment and an addition to the decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared that Elvira Kovac is a deputy member of the delegation, instead of Mrs Ferenci-Galgo, so that what Mr Maksic, secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is simply not true. The decision was amended by amending and supplementing the Decision – instead of Mrs Ferenci-Galgo, Elvira Kovac is elected. It's the first shift. It is true from that delegation that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, given that Mr. Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister, the president of the SPS, was born on January 1st, you already know this, as well as Mr. Miloljub Albianic, who left, and even in Strasbourg he told us that he is looking forward to leaving the post of MP because he is in a hurry to the place where his party sent him, they cannot, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Europe, because they belong to the executive authority and are no longer MPs, to be members of our delegation. So that decision you're reading, or what you have in front of you, isn't true and it's not the last one, because afterwards it was a change and a supplement for Elvira Kovac. Today at 11.00 p.m., the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, based on Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's letter, gave us accreditations. I'm going back to the beginning of the story again this morning. The total deception of both the public and the president of the assembly stemmed from Dragoljub Micunovic. I asked him nicely on Friday, before we finished working on the agenda point and when he needed a memo to address us: is he safe and is he behind that interpretation? You saw that he put an alternative: it could be to deny us accreditation. So he took responsibility on himself, as chairman of the Committee, and as "the father of democracy" for us not being in the Council of Europe today. Who is one man, and where did he get his powers? After that, I also spoke to Bosca Ristic and I said "you are a lawyer, a lawyer, where did Micunovic get the authority to interpret the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Europe"? I claimed Friday that that wasn't true. Mrs. Comic, all of which happened on Friday that this session, which is now on the agenda, was closed and the Assembly voted on Friday on this composition of the delegation, which we are going to talk about, we oppose the party that appears in the new series last night of 2.00 hours, being in the Council of Europe delegation and international organisations. You know, there's no Rosca and there's no ball, no one there to watch what's going to happen. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. That is why it says that he is now a former member of the SRS delegation in front of the SRS. Look, now I'm going to deliver this to you, Mrs. Comic, where Ivica Dacic and Albianic were, there are cartoons now. So there will be filled spaces. I'll continue later, and Mr. Todorovic says he's really exhausted, because so many of our arguments convinced him that a man can't listen to the same thing for the hundredth time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13182	Please remember that there is a Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges us to treat each other. No one can change a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe except the National Assembly. Your pointing out that there are cartoons instead of some names could easily be undermined by the National Assembly. Therefore, only the National Assembly has the power to change the composition of delegations in parliamentary institutions and organisations. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, compared to you, Mrs. Komic, and before that with Mrs. Nada Kolundzija. Namely, in her afternoon announcement, Nada Kolundji tried to explain how the SRS was responsible because we today do not have a delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is not true, and that in a very picturesque way the SRS explained in the morning and, I believe, explained and convinced the citizens that the real problem was that the DS did not want and had no interest in having our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe today. You have also heard all the reasons why this is the case, but Mrs. Hope Kolundji said at one point that everyone sitting in this House today is a people's messenger, because they all have their mandates verified one day. Yes, that's true, but I remind Mrs Nada Kolundji that it was a credible mandate, say Dragic Djokovic, as a DSS MP and at that time, when he was taken by those from the DS, had no political interest, because at that time almost 100% this parliament was against the introduction of those phantom groups. Remember Bogoljub Karic and the purchase of some MPs and the formation of a party group that did not go to the elections. At that time, the DS wanted to prove democratic, so she took Dragisa Djokovic, promised him the MP's mandate, and then changed her mind, so they left him for a while without a mandate, so that "democracy" would not embarrass him. Also, we remember the famous legal delusions of some of the professors of law school. By decision of the Supreme Court, proven plagiarist Stevan Lilic and some other lawyers whose mandate was verified, so when you kidnapped the DSS mandates, the court returned those mandates, and then they submitted resignations, after the resignations submitted, re-conceived, they returned to parliament and then the great lawyers said they were in legal error. So that's what I'm saying to some of the most complex examples -- what you DS actually consider democracy. Just what's in your current interest. Mrs. Komic, I'm sorry, I can see it's been three minutes, but it's amazing how long it takes you to come out with some argument and convince us that you're right and not us, and obviously you can't convince us... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done, thank you. We have been discussing this since 10.00 hours, and you only 15 minutes ago came out with an argument that the delegation today did not go to Strasbourg because it is a member of the Ivica Dacic delegation, who in the meantime became a minister, and you saw that it is not an argument, or that it does not stand on the Council of Europe website. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13184	There's no breach of Article 104. You deceived the public by quoting that I said the reason was Ivica Dacic. Please use our words carefully at the pay phone if we quote others and listen carefully. With insight into the stenogram you can see that the name was mentioned only as one of many, as a reason, very justified, that the delegation should be changed because we are at the agenda point – Making a decision on the composition of a delegation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So it's not about any other kind of argument, but the obvious need for a delegation to be formed by today's decision, that the General Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is informed about it and that our delegation can work in favour of Serbia. The word is by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, Mrs Nada Kolundžija and Mr Dragoljub Micunovic have today broken the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the worst way possible, both misleading the MPs and the public of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, which is why we do not have a delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Fortunately, Serbian citizens were able to hear the real truth, hear facts, arguments, above all from the MPs of the SRS, because we are exclusively facts. The attempt to transfer responsibility and blame on the SRS is more than incorrect, but Serbian citizens are there to assess the work of each parliamentary group and every political party. What am I saying this for? Because I said the elections were only relevant to how many political parties would have representatives here in Parliament. This was undoubtedly demonstrated by Serbian citizens on 11 May. The SRS is simply asking that citizens' will be respected and that 78 SRS MPs sit here because it was the wish of Serbian citizens. In fact, Mr Nikolic knew several times that I would be told that elections in my municipality would be called and the time had come to call, though elections for the councils of local communities, but these are also elections that are relevant and where all political parties participate. You have, Mr. Nikolic, a greeting from the president of the municipality of Milan Cuk, the Serbian Radical, from B92, not from this traitor TV of yours, but from Bačko Brestovac where yesterday's elections were held and where the SRS again, since its 11th term, won nine. Your list, Mr. Nikolic, took part in the elections, as well as the DS list, which won two seats. What Seka Sabljic would say: "Your list has won a concerted action". Citizens of Odjac municipality know how to identify traitors and know that they stand behind people who deserve it, and this assembly majority has managed to deceive Serbian citizens on 11 May, but I am sure that in the next election, it will not go hand in hand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13186	The MP has no injuries to Article 104, but I warn you that your exposure is summed up in words with Article 104, because this kind of use of words and treatment of one another is on the other side of tolerance, when it comes to applying the Rules of Procedure, so I warn you for the next time. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He gave up. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13187	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I call on all MPs in this Chamber to approach the debate on the agenda, because we on the agenda have a composition of these parliamentary delegations and I do not see any need to discuss the composition of these delegations by discussing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I have to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 103rd and 104th because there's a rude insult to DS, Professor. Micunovic and Mrs. Hope Kolundžija. There's an interesting fact in human psychology that a man can understand another man only to the level of his intelligence. The same applies to natural phenomena and natural processes. I understand that it's hard for some to understand, Professor. Micunovic and Mrs Nada Kolundji are trying to accuse the DS of obstructing parliamentary work. But if you don't understand us, I think you understand Miss Marina Ragush. She made it clear and unequivocal this morning that we are witnessing the obstruction of parliamentary work, because you do not want SNS representatives to be in these delegations. I don't want to read what Ms. Marina Ragush told you. I can do that, but I don't think we should waste any time. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: come on. There's no need, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. No eye contact, no eyelashes. I think it is time to approach the debate on the agenda and really sit here and discuss who will act as parliamentary delegations, respecting the fact that all MPs in this Chamber have been verified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13188	There is no injury to the members you have quoted, and for the presentation of the MPs you have mentioned that they have committed an injury, I would like to give a warning, and then the measures to which I am bound by Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is from MP Pai Momchilov, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13189	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, I advertise Article 104. I'm sure we won't agree whether he's hurt or not, but I still want to say two or three things. I'll be very brief. First, it is undoubtedly a major political damage that has been done to the state of Serbia and this parliament by not leaving our parliamentary delegation for a meeting that is under way. To explain doesn't have to be, it's more than clear. What I want to show you is that the central European initiative is one of the European institutions where there are 18 member states and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Central European Initiative was held on 18 November last year. Since I was a member of our delegation, and I was also in the previous meeting, two representatives of this Parliament participated in this meeting on November 18th, our representatives were not denied going to the Parliamentary Assembly of European countries, and we represented our country, the two of us. The head of the delegation was Mr. Ivan Jovanovic, a young man, a DS MP, who represented and led our delegation in one way that he could impote us. At that meeting, our delegation also had something to say and was very observant. We also participated in the Committee on Economic Relations and the Committee on Political Relations. We have imposed the following topic, which will be discussed at the next session of this association, and it has been very noticeable and the presentation of our head of delegation who has also had meetings with other delegations, let's say, with Italian, which is the main one in this initiative. Therefore, your explanations do not stand, they replace the the thesis that you do to justify something that cannot be justified, we do not need. Madam Chairman, I know your guilt did not lead to this misunderstanding, the SRS MPs will not allow you to have someone come out here, so that he may say that Serbian radicals are guilty of it. They have always responded to their mission and participated in all delegations and in one appropriate way represented the interests of both our states and this Parliament. Let me just tell you one thing. When some things are wasted and unsustainable you want to keep by force, you can do even more damage just to do it. Who? I don't want to explain. You think about it yourself. Therefore, I think it is enough elements, that it is quite clear that these reasons you have instructed are not standing, the two existing members of the previous assembly represented our country at the end of last year, and the central European initiative, whether or not you know, is the EU's entertainment or lobby, and the main objective of all countries is that all countries join the EU as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13190	The MP, the way and procedure of forming parliamentary delegations is different for each of the parliamentary institutions and organisations and is currently on the agenda of the parliamentary organisation for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I said they were different for different parliamentary institutions and organizations. Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation – one rule, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Initiative, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Assembly of Orthodox Countries, the Mediterranean Assembly, Serbia participates in quite a number, fortunately, and all sets out by the Assembly, but the procedures are different, these organisations and us, compared to the procedure held by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That's all I'm stressing. I thank you for helping MP Dragan Todorovic. It has nothing to do with the election, but MP Pai Momchilov pronounced it a violation of the Rules of Procedure. There is no breach of Article 104, material for this session and proceedings of the National Assembly, and the Committee president was in line with Rules of Procedure and Article 239 and their powers. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13191	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226, asking the Minister of Justice - who, who, for what reason and on what authority has pulled international warrants for the Shiptar terrorists, Hashim Thaci and Agim Ceku?- I'm sorry. I remind you, warrants against these two terrorists have been raised for serious crimes that are members of the so-called. The KLA subdued the Serb and non-Serbian population before and after the occupation of KIM. Telegraphically, I am reminded of these crimes, 250,000 expelled Serbs, 400 destroyed and defiled Orthodox cemeterys, 150 destroyed churches and Orthodox monasteries, more than four thousand killed and missing, among them and 500 kidnapped who are presumed to have been victims of organ trafficking. I remind you that the Cypriot terrorists killed more than 100 members of the Albanian people who were loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. An international warrant against Agim Ceku and Hashim Thaci has been issued by the Pristina District Court. According to our domestic law, that court was the only one who had the authority to withdraw the warrant. I will read to you the statement by Danica Marinkovic, who, as the district court's investigative judge in Pristina, made a decision to raise these arrest warrants. An APB can only withdraw a court that has betrayed them. The Pristina district court issued warrants in 2000, but did not withdraw them, which means the withdrawal did not respect the procedure. "I have heard all over Serbia 150, 200 witnesses and gathered a lot of evidence. At one point came Justice Minister Vladan Batic and asked me for cases, as the ministry needed them because of The Hague tribunal. I haven't been returned since. I don't even know how the red BOLO pulled. I just know I didn't pull it." I remind you that the warrant was withdrawn at a time when Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic was a member of the DS, and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. Members of the Association of Families of the Dead and Missing from Kosovo and Metohija suspect the withdrawal of the warrants preceded the taking of money by Zoran Zivkovic and Dusan Mihajlovic. I quote their statement: "We suspect the warrants were withdrawn for big money and that the former prime minister and minister were rich over Serbian victims. For five years, we had no idea they were taken off until we read in the paper. "To avoid debt, since time is running out, I remind you of one situation currently in which Serbia is located. Serbia is being kidnapped today by a portion of its territory. At the same time, Serbia is amnesting the ringleaders of the Shyptarian terrorists, who are stealing its territory. At the same time, Serbia is calling a prize for the head of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, people who have fought over the past 15 years for the defence of Serbia's territory, the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13192	National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13193	Madam Vice President, I report in the light of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226, I address you, by asking for a notice – on what legal basis is the social agricultural company Dolovo in possession of land of 764 hectares in the Catastrian Municipality of Mramorak, as well as the AD "Goldar Marmorak" owned by land of 492 hectares, and do not pay the rent, according to the information I received from the Kovin municipality? The municipality of Kovin belongs to the largest municipalities on the surface, which it owns, including the Delibate Cave, and above all to the settlements of Bavanište, Pločica, Skorenovac, then Gaj, Deliblato, Dubovac, etc. But in this municipality, I have to repeat, because I didn't cover everything, use agricultural land, and the tenants don't pay the rent. In the village of Skorenovac there are 11 contracts completed, with tenants owed large amounts of money in euro, and in the possession of these illegal owners there are 1,224 hectares. As far as Plotica is concerned, I must say that this is an area where agriculture was destroyed, an agricultural enterprise, which, as I said earlier, was extremely well managed, and with other villages and settlements in the Kovin municipality. Furthermore, in Gai, they also process agricultural land, and do not pay the state rent. This can only happen in the state of Serbia, that someone enters the property violently, that they will not conclude the contracts, that they will not pay the price, that they will not participate in the bidding, and that the Ministry of Agriculture and the municipality of Kovin amnesty it and allow it to use and be rich in this way. Therefore, I point out that the Kovin municipality is one of the municipalities in Vojvodina, including the 40km-long Deliblat Cave, one of the important and strategic municipalities, but agriculture in this municipality has been destroyed, thanks to the unreasonable and incorrect government of the Republic of Serbia towards individual agricultural producers, who live on it. And industry and businesses, and the Covin sugar company don't work, except for the individual farmers who work fairly. Everything else is fair to you, under question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13194	The word has a national emissary of Elena Christmas-Talian. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226, a question for Boris Tadic: The Serbian Radical Party has information that US Ambassador Cameron Manter is asking Boris Tadic to provide Tomislav Nikolic and his group of citizens who are illegally sitting in parliament with rights that do not belong to them under the Constitution and the law? American Ambassador, Protector of the so-called Advanced parties seek violation of the constitution, violation of the law, termination of the electoral will of citizens, so that at the kidnapped mandates of the SRS Tomislav Nikolic, who are illegally sitting in Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13196	People's MPs, you can charge me with illegal sitting in Parliament in the course of exposure, because that is not the case. So I ask you to make sure when you speak to other MPs. All 250 MPs have a confirmed mandate and all the rights and obligations arising from that mandate and cannot be used the term – you are illegally sitting in Parliament, because it is not true and thus endangering the dignity of the National Assembly, you deceive the public and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13197	Mrs. Komic, until now you have always well quoted the French naturalist and writer Bifon,'stil is a man', and you have allowed your responsibility to be exempt from the way the MP presents and explains what he has to say, and in this case you do not bear any responsibility for what I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13198	I bear responsibility for you endangering the dignity of the National Assembly. MPs were interrupted only when the situation in the Assembly was called illegal, when MPs with a confirmed mandate and called all rights and obligations to citizens, groups of citizens, illegal, illegal. So we used offensive expressions, insulted the dignity of the National Assembly, deceived the public, and crossed the line tolerated by a member of the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes how we treat one another. It's not a style, it's an insult and it's for sanctions. This is why MPs are interrupted, because this Assembly has 250 MPs with confirmed mandates and with all the rights and obligations arising from its mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13199	I'll keep going and you're welcome to stop me if I happen to have an illegal-sit trip again. The SRS has repeatedly pointed out and warned about the direct political influence of US and UK ambassadors and their interference in our country's internal affairs, and this current regime not only allows, but has become an ordinary instrument for the implementation of the will and interest of these ambassadors and known tycoons. We are particularly interested in Boris Tadic and DS because of the growing political convergence of DS and so on. Advanced parties. Vukic and Nikolic regularly get commendations from authorities that the party of Tomislav Nikolic has drawn close in its positions on Boris Tadic. One minister in the Republic Government speaks openly of this closeness between DS and so-called "Staff". Advanced parties in an interview published these days. I quote the minister in question: "Vucic and Nikolic cannot attack Tadic because they drink coffee regularly with him. The wolf sits and makes plans with Gilas. Look, the Belgrade City Assembly is funding Justice. When we talk about the government's reconstruction, I think the approximation of Tomislav Nikolic to Boris Tadic is the only positive thing." This is what the minister in the Republic Government says, and he probably knows best what the ruling parties are doing. They no longer need Vukic and Nikolic to bother to prove that they are the opposition, there is no longer any doubt that they are so-called. The Progressive Party is part of the front of the ruling parties. We saw Tomislav Nikolic working hard to strengthen ties with DS, so he recently explained that he was in a special kind of friendship with Zoran Djindjic. According to the ruling majority's behaviour, we understand that in all possible ways they will try to meet the US ambassador's demands, but we are looking for, regardless of whether Boris Tadic answers whether he will allow the US ambassador to interfere with political life in Serbia this time. Does he intend to meet these requirements of Ambassador Manter concerning the sacred cow, or Tomislav Nikolic and the Progressive Party, and is Boris Tadic ready to break the constitution and the law to make concessions to Nikolic provided him with rights in parliament that do not belong to him? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13200	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13201	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, understand me, please, because of the great importance I want to speak and request a notice about what interests the citizens of the Kovin municipality. In the sense of the provisions of Art. 225 and 226. I am asking a question and request a notice and ask the Ministry of Agriculture to answer the following – which is the statute of pasture in the territory of the municipality of Kovin, and above all in the populated town of Pločica, Skorenovac, Bavanište, Mramorak, Deliblato, Šumarac, Gaj, Dubovac, by asking that, in the sense of Article 9. The law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages for use, determines who is in possession, whether the village or not is a village, whether it is enjoyed and used by peasants, because it is by this law and by Article 9. The law on the return of mornings and pastures is normized and foreseen for both pastures and mornings to return to villages. On which legal basis and who is today, on this day, owned, because citizens in many inhabited places are damaged, they cannot and have no place to drive their cattle to the pasture, and it is known that since Maria Teresa and the Romans, to this day, so to speak, pastures in Serbia have been one great advantage, where citizens could persecute their flocks. So farmers of populated settlements in the municipality of Kovin, the whole of Serbia, in fact, must get their rights, as regulated by the 1992 Law. There's no change in purpose, and I have learned that many mobsters have changed the purpose of pastures, that they've plowed pastures and sown and used as illegals unfounded and without any legal basis. That is how it happened recently in the populated town of Omoliica, strange faces came along with five tractors of the preoral pasture of citizens of the populated town of Omoljica. This has been reported to the police and the Ministry of Agriculture, but other than the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture has come out on the spot, there are no other measures. This is a criminal offence, and they must take the appropriate measures of the state authorities, primarily the prosecution and the police, so that citizens can finally exercise the rights guaranteed by the Constitution on the return of the morning and pasture. We can't let the village mobsters take away the pastures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13202	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a single debate on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. First of those declared for the word, MP Elvira Kovač, and then MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13203	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking for a long time, I've had hours from 10:00 this morning to 4:15 this morning, as we explain why we don't have representatives of the Serbian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today. What to say from that point of view that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and almost the entire Parliamentary Minority Club supports this government, does not insult anyone, and still explain to the citizens of Serbia why this happened. Dear citizens, regardless of what we did today, beyond the agenda, that is to say, the MPs reported themselves mainly in breach of the Rules of Procedure, we heard a lot of arguments on one side and on the other, as to why all this happened. As someone who has also been in the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that is, in the delegation of the Serbian Parliament, I hope in the soon-to-be newly elected one, firstly I would like to appeal to all of you not to look for blames in each other why all this has happened. It is a sad fact that this has happened, that now that the Winter Meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is taking place, we are not there and obviously we will not leave. I'd just like to explain a few half-truths, maybe it's a strong word, even half-truth, but a few misunderstandings about what's been going on with our delegation, or what's going on with our delegations. As we all know, elections at all levels, including parliamentary elections, were held on 11 May 2008, the mandates were verified on 16 June and a new assembly of the National Assembly began its work. The fact that in early September, one of the biggest opposition parties fell apart on our scene, and I don't want anyone to misread me, but unfortunately, there have been problems. I want to fence myself against this being no problem. Simply, the Serbian Parliament has previously succeeded in both committees and delegations choosing agreements on the so-called so-called so-called so-called "Seconds". by consulting the heads of the parliamentary groups with the president or president of the Assembly and we simply came to these working bodies of the committee – the delegation came so-called. The consensus, by compromise, mostly all voted for it, regardless of whether they belong to opposition parties or to the ruling majority. I remember when there was this change in delegations in which I was elected, since there was a change of MPs, I later became an MP in the previous assembly, 212 MPs voted for it, because there was an agreement at the time. Now Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic tried to reach a compromise solution for the election of delegations and members of the RIK, which is the second point of this extraordinary session, the delay lasted until then as we hoped, while it was considered possible to reach a compromise solution. Unfortunately, this didn't happen. I point out once again, I don't want to blame anyone, but I think we knew before that compromise wouldn't happen. We are now in a situation and we hope to finally elect these delegations, that most likely for these new delegations will be voted solely by the ruling majority or by certain opposition parties, certainly not by all MPs. This agenda item could have been put on the agenda a long time ago. This was supposed to be the sixth time I went to Strasbourg, and I don't want this to be a personal promotion, but the minority Parliament Club was the first time in the previous assembly. The SVM had no MPs for a time and was never in a position to get a seat in such an important delegation. Now we got it, and I took my job very seriously, because every time I had those sessions, winter, spring, summer and autumn, from the first day to the last, I attended all the sessions, or sessions of the committees that I belonged to. Unfortunately, during the summer session and the above-mentioned Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in June, there was a problem that we all know, and the public and journalists sent it away – that we had traveled to Strasbourg, we were only in Strasbourg for one day and then we had to go back. So, there was a bad coordination again, a delegation was sent to Strasbourg, so she just had to come back. So, during the summer session, we couldn't do it seriously. The autumn session has passed, no matter what a new assembly was already established back then, we were in Strasbourg, but an old delegation. At that time, we should have thought more seriously and seen that we are in a time-storage, that by January, new delegations were definitely to be voted on, even if only this ruling majority voted for them, however, we failed to do so. Last week was one late attempt to elect a new delegation, but I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, the new delegation was due to apply a week earlier. So we'd be late with her anyway. I mentioned that it is not a problem in people, because the new and old delegation may be in more than 80% of the names of these MPs, it is almost the same people. At least now someone could have left. I was really sad because I think it is for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, who showed on 11 May that they have truly defined themselves as European integration, outrageous and devastating that our country and such an important institution as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia simply does not show that it really wants to co-operate with MEPs from European countries, that it wants to participate in the work of such important institutions. We simply did not show good will and failed to show that we were serious. Now there are statements in the paper that by March the problem will be solved, I don't know exactly, but the other delegations have several sessions over the year, I don't know when it's next. As for this famous one, which we mention most today, the next session is in April. I sincerely hope we find a solution by then. I appeal to all of you, regardless of inter-party problems, that we simply have the strength to show good faith to our citizens, that we really care to extend our policy to foreign fields, to Europe, to want to cooperate with everyone, show good will and choose our delegations. The proportions aren't a problem at all. Every Parliament club has its own MPs according to precisely calculated mathematics. Since several times gender equality has been mentioned, of course there are fewer women in this delegation and there are not even women among the members, they are mostly deputies of members, I just want to explain that there is almost no difference between the rights of members and deputies of the board and that still, which I am partly proud of, our delegation is one of the better ones, like seven plus seven, of which only four women are, because many countries with regard to gender equality don't even have MPs, have a smaller number of MPs. In any case, I appeal to all of you to show good faith, the SVM and the Minority Parliament Club are seeking to remove all obstacles in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that all working bodies, committees and foreign delegations are finally established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13204	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, after which the word has been sent by Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13205	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the President-in-Office, today we should elect our representatives, delegates of the Serbian Assembly in nine international organisations, the largest number of European organisations or only European organisations. On the one hand, it says that this process of European co-operation and integration is not limited to the EU alone, although it is the most important bearer of the process. At the same time, this means that the state must act responsibly to these organisations, as well as to all others, as to its interests, since the interests of the state through these organisations can be promoted, many decisions, declarations and other types of decisions within these organisations can also be defended for the complete process of European integration. Some of them are more important for Serbia, some are less important, but certainly the OSCE and the Council of Europe are the most important among these where we should choose our representatives today. The OSCE, of course, because it is a European organisation for security and co-operation, therefore, is an increasingly important aspect of general European integration, and the Council of Europe because it is an organisation for the preservation, promotion of human rights, democracy, local self-government, etc. The team is rather incomprehensible that this is how we treat ourselves, in this case, the Council of Europe, because it was somehow wanted to hold a session of the Parliamentary Assembly and the relevant committees at a time when we were discussing this matter. We're arguing with each other, and we don't have our delegates there. I say, that's more incomprehensible than that because the whole state and its bodies, this assembly, are ultimately very clearly defined for co-operation in these European organisations and the question is who is now holding the whole thing back, why did this happen in the first place, who is responsible, etc. At first glance, it may seem even weirder that the ruling majority who came to power with that slogan or with the password of European integration, we said that this was an important aspect, in fact it was the biggest brake in having a delegation where we should have one today. It is possible that we may not have been able to reach some consensus on the composition of the delegation, given the specific problem that exists in the Assembly between the two groups, but this should not have been an extremely decisive obstacle that we do not have a delegation in the Council of Europe today, as it is more important for Serbia to be represented there. And, as we know, only leadership, presidency and committees of the Council of Europe don't go so far into the details of how the state has its delegation, whether it's in some continuity or new, whether it strictly implements the procedure about six months after the election of the new Assembly to have that delegation, etc. At the end of the line, if we ask the question why, in six months from the election, and more than six months have passed, we do not have that delegation, why this has not been discussed in the Assembly, again, in the nature of things, the responsibility of the ruling majority. For everything that is delayed, for everything that is not given in time as a proposal for a debate within the relevant committees and within parliamentary clubs, this initiative is given by the Presidency of the Assembly or the President of the Assembly, which is actually the ruling majority in this assembly. This is a very important issue, with the Council of Europe as Europe's most prominent political organisation today, and the oldest. It was founded before the first European community in 1949 and until today it had great influence, great reputation, authority. The Council of Europe had several important conventions and charters in force in the Member States' internal rights. First of all, we take the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the Charter of Local Self-Government. The Council of Europe has a court that is responsible for defending human rights in the final truth. So, a court that can be addressed in the final truth by citizens of all the Member States of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is constantly discussing current political problems in the context of the development of democracy, etc. It is simply incomprehensible that Serbia in the era of its European Renaissance, if I can be a little funny, simply has no delegation. I'm under the impression that there's no basic reason for this to be a pretext that there's a dispute within the Assembly, that the reason might be something else. I can't quite guess what the reason would be, but I just can't believe that one such dispute, which by nature doesn't have to affect this, prevented Serbia from having its own delegation in Strasbourg today and discussing topics that are on the agenda. It has been mentioned more than once today that there is an initiative, in fact a report on Kosovo, which will be, his first proposal, presented to the political committee, to plan from there to create a new resolution on Kosovo. It's really not good, it's very bad, it's bad for the state that she doesn't have any representatives from the start. The question is, if we keep this up, will they have any? We can decide to make a decision on a new delegation or to make a pragmatic decision that would say something about it – if we do not agree on it, then the only way out is that the existing delegation represents Serbia in the Council of Europe until a relevant decision is made by the Assembly. It is less evil than Serbia does not have its representatives and generally when it comes to other topics, especially when it comes to such an important issue as Kosovo and Metohija. Allow me a few more words about an organization where we should determine our representatives, it's the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Today we have the biggest problem with the Council of Europe, because the Council of Europe has already started its meeting, and we do not have our representatives, but it may also be a general problem that we do not have new delegations for everyone else, for all nine of these organisations that we are talking about. When it comes to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it is understood that there is no major impact of these delegations and the Parliamentary Assembly itself on that organisation, on its decisions, strategic and operational, etc. There's a NATO council that's in charge, where they're just members. However, at this point it may be very important that we have a delegation there precisely because NATO is a military organisation that is unusually aggressively performing on this ground towards our country and plays a special role in KIM, which we particularly care about. So, I wouldn't go to the history of all of this, I'd just mention that according to Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and his Anex 10 NATO stands for everything that happens on KIM after the possible declaration of its independence. We had the opportunity to see this even a few weeks ago when the Kosovo army was founded, as the people would paint it or in the official name – the Kosovo Security Force, when we saw that the NATO wing of KFOR actually gave logistics for the establishment of this army and, if we carefully look at Marty Ahtisaari's plan, we will see that NATO has a special role in monitoring the work of this army, in its equipment, payment, in training above all, etc. etc. Of course, some countries will take certain parts of responsibility, but NATO will be the cap of this entire action. We, of course, as the Assembly should have a special discussion about it, but it is now an initiative that we received from Mitrovica a few days ago and I see today that it is neatly seduced in the office of the Assembly and that we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter in Mitrovica. I would not raise a big question about this, but I would draw particular attention to this topic, that today, or some day, we should set out that delegation, that it is very important to make it clear that the country's official position towards military alliances is clearly highlighted there. I would remind you that since the end of December 2007, the National Assembly has had one provision that has established Serbia's military neutrality and that, given this one view, the delegation should step forward continuously repeating the state's stance on Serbia's military status in the international environment. I'm saying this because there's an Atlantic ideology in this country, there's an Atlantic strategy, it blows and winds of government, and there were such advocates during the previous government, etc. It has happened to us that European integration has somehow been magically transformed into Euro-Atlantic integration, and this says that the state does not have a clear, decisive and true view of all these actions that NATO has towards Kosovo. Therefore, the more relevant authorities of the state, the Assembly, the Government, etc. must. to fight this, public opinion of course, but also the Assembly delegation within this parliamentary diplomacy at this level, therefore, and within the framework of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13206	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13207	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise Article 104 and ask some questions in accordance with the article. 225th and 226th of our Rules of Procedure. I believe that in some way dignity and the National Assembly and our fellow citizens are at stake, whether they come from certain social groups or from a certain territory. I'll briefly explain what's going on. So, according to our Constitution, all citizens of this country have the same rights, no matter what color the skin is, what religion, which half, what age or part of Serbia live in. Is it quite so, and is it unfortunately a deficient phenomenon that certain social groups or certain people living in certain territories are being discriminated against in some way? In 2006, a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities was passed. What was done about it? I'm afraid not so much. The other day in Nis, we had an important forum of MPs and organizations where people with disabilities were gathered and I simply have an obligation to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question, in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities? I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as soon as possible, draw a binding conclusion to all institutions and government institutions, public enterprises and state bodies, to adapt all institutions and all buildings that are of public character to access people with disabilities within a reasonable period of six months to a year. The other kind of discrimination I want to mention here is the place of life. So, low-area reserves, but also other Southeast Serbian districts have been seeking equal rights for a year now, as are all other reserves. A few days ago, another one was held in a series of protest sessions of national reservers. I want to ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will the government decide to pay those reserves from the territory of Nisavsky County for the same war logbooks that it has already paid to Toplička County reserves? In this way, she would treat them as well, therefore, there would be no discrimination. The third type of discrimination also refers to a slightly wider area of Nis, and refers to the Niš airport. Please, since it's already out of time, so I don't answer again, I'll be done in one minute, if it's not a problem. So, in 2002, after the bombing, the airport was trained for civilian traffic. Since then, to this day, for six years and seven years it has been, and the airport has not been put on its feet, or has not fully satisfied all function, mostly for reasons the state is obstructing it. JAT, Belgrade airport and lobbys at the Civil Traffic Directorate do not allow free flights from the airport. In this way, not only the citizens of Nis were discriminated against, but also one wider area of southeastern Serbia, and parts of western Serbia, or all of those who are much closer to Nis and travel freely from Nis to any regional and European destinations, unlike those living in Belgrade and have their own airport, and soon they will get others in Batajnica. For this reason, I ask you, or I ask you as Vice-President of Parliament, to transfer the President to Parliament the question – when will you put on the agenda the law confirming the international Agreement on a Common European Aviation Area, in order to remove discrimination against the airport and put that airport in office? This would, of course, allow citizens of that part of Serbia to fly from the airport, but thus allow the airport to also function in the development of the economy and the entire region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13208	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). MP Lapcevic asked for the agreement. He's in procedure in the Assembly. There are two ways -- either us 86 or the government to schedule a session with that bill, because it entered the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13209	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking a question and asking for an answer in terms of the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It is, in fact, crimes committed by the Cypriot terrorists, and the NATO Pact and others in Europe and the world protect these war criminals. I will only refer to a report published on 15 January 2009, when Italian General Vekio, which I will say a few words about, says: "We have kept quiet about the crimes of Albanians against Serbs". Rome: "Albanians have committed terrible crimes in Kosovo, and among those responsible for the killings of Serbs are former KLA commander and Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj and Agim Ceku," says Italian "Panorama" in a previously unpublished text illustrated with photographic material about killing Serbs. The crimes were testified, therefore, by Italian General Maurio del Vekio, who commanded the KFOR contingent in June 1999: "Every morning I received a report on the corpses of Serbs, Roma, left by the road. Whoever didn't escape risked death and kidnapping. The abandoned Serbian houses are burned and destroyed to the ground." He says they shouldn't have published this information. However, the general who was commander of KFOR spoke today, and his conscience came to terms when he said "Some photos are so terrible, that "Panorama" decided not to publish them, like the one on which it is seen -- that Albanians grin when the heads of the dead Serbs are put in a bag. "I ask the question and ask the Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, because there have been attempts to initiate war crimes proceedings and genocide against the Cypriot terrorists Agim Ceku and Ramush Haradinaj, however, they prefer to prosecute those for verbal delinquency, such as the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, but for these crimes and murders they will not charge either to investigate war criminals and the perpetrator of genocide against the civilian population, so I am looking for an answer to my oral question – what about this genocide will the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes take on, because genocide and war crimes, and especially genocide do not go out of date, and here we have the opportunity to answer to my oral question – what is provided for new evidence?- I'm sorry. The new evidence is now also what KFOR Commander General of the Italian Army said, as well as numerous investigators who were then at KIM. That's why I'm proposing and asking you to forward this question to the Special Prosecutor... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Let's see what measures the Special Prosecutor's Office will take to finally initiate the proper criminal procedure for genocide and war crimes against the Shipara terrorists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13210	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13211	Mrs. Komic, I'm going to point out a few provisions of the Rules of Procedure that have been violated, so I would ask you, since you are prone to the bad interpretations of my thoughts and what I bring out of this pay phone, let me tell you, start with Article 160, and start with Article 239 of Article 2 of the last amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You will see, by reading these provisions, and I will take the opportunity to read a part of the provision, how corrupt the idea of today's session of the National Assembly is. On the occasion of this first item of the agenda, we have the most obvious example of abuse of the right to propose a decision. Just to read, Article 239 says: "The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations under Article 1 is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. "Please, what can they consult about – whether a proper proportion is expressed to which political party belongs to the place of permanent delegation and which of these political parties will eventually make a gesture of goodwill, to give up its place, to meet the conditions of gender representation or something which was the subject of debate several months ago, that LDP, which may not belong according to proportion and does not belong to a place, but it is looking for a suitable place in the Council of Europe, because there is a special group of liberals, besides Socialists, peoples, etc. If you look at the proposed decision, you will see that, in addition to the names of the proposed candidates, there is only reportedly a member of the parliamentary group. Please, this is where you must express your belongings to a political party. If this is expressed in the way it has been going, since the submission of the candidacy, i.e. the results of the elections, the findings of the mandate and of the National Assembly, I have warned you of this for three months, you will easily notice that there is no political party here, and you are members of that political party who have been involved in the membership of delegations. Citizens, know why this is done! It is estimated that some parliamentary groups are brazen enough to get a delegation, their man in the delegation, so that she is forced to vote, in order to prejudge some issue that will inevitably come, as far as the mandate is concerned. It's the same hoax, it's been voted on by the budget, so it's passed some funding there in some member where the borrowing is scheduled, and then the bills of the borrowing law come in, so it's said -- well, it's gone into the budget, so it's got to vote for this. No, this proposal was drawn up in accordance with Article 239(2). You must withdraw this on official duty! If you do not, know that you are harshly violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for this is not proportionate to the political parties represented in the National Assembly. When it comes to the proportional representation of political parties in the National Assembly, it is thought of those political parties that received seats in the elections, not the mirage of the party you made to create confusion in Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13212	The first item of the agenda material was drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Article 239, which knows the parliamentary groups equally with political parties. This is therefore also the procedural and political arrangements that the President of the National Assembly has conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the powers of the President of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13213	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, today has finally come delegations on the agenda and it is very ugly that this has not been done significantly before. We had to have representatives, and we had to do it on time. I don't see why it couldn't have been arranged, as it is today, nothing more important would have changed if it had been two months ago. Secondly, I would ask all MPs and MPs who leave as delegates of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which delegation, not to forget Serbia's interest, our common interest and not to behave, as we have heard today that some members of the delegation have been restrained when it comes to Kosovo. That's impossible. Is it possible for a Serbian politician, who represents Serbia, to go, no matter where, to the Council of Europe, to NATO, anywhere to talk and not respect what the Serbian Parliament has brought several times, minors unanimously, with some small exceptions. Therefore, we must take care of what these people who represent us say. These days, we are so humiliated and confused in the world, because we cannot raise our voice, and none of our officials are more important, more important, than our athletes, when they humiliated us, underestimated us in Croatia, when they stone our cars, throw our athletes, beat our buses, rip our buses, and burn our flag publicly, and we certainly give some sharp protest. Enough harsh protests?- I'm sorry. They're building an army in Kosovo, and we wrote a sharp letter?- I'm sorry. What does that mean? We turned very hard. There's no such thing as our edge! At the moment when they are building an army of independent Kosovo states, our politicians are visiting primary schools, as Tito pioneers, for the weekend, to see what children do, to chat with children and to talk, to take pictures. That's very ugly. Some of our politicians are immature to realize the moment, that they lead a country in the hardest days for Serbia. These are tough days for Serbia. This isn't harmless in Sandzak. It's not harmless to the Vojvodina either. Great division, fear in the people, big problems across Serbia. Big problems in many productions, workers run out of work, politicians who run the country and say – fight for the workplace, save the job! And those who are poor come to work and find a list and say to them, "From tomorrow you cannot enter a circle." How to fight for a job, in what way, how to protect it? He says you're defending the workplace. How do we defend?- I'm sorry. Is that an invitation to something else? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I've come forward as head of the Parliament's Group on delegations. (President: I apologize, MP, it is a misunderstanding. I did not say "injury" to the Rules of Procedure, but answered as head of the Parliament's group on the agenda, which is at today's meeting. I would ask all of our members of the delegation to be unique, to agree, not to fight and fight and somewhere when we go outside so we don't show those habits we have here in Serbia. See for yourself, there are big problems. This in Croatia does not go on the soul of a democratic state that is constantly showing Croatia. How much longer to tolerate such behavior? Is a country like Croatia matured to organize any kind of gathering, and we think it is immature, because these problems are always experiencing. What will our basketball players do in that Adriatic league, if they have rocks every day, if they can run in the halls of "kill Serbs", Serbs on willows and everything we hear. What are they going to play in that Zadar? We want to make our league, the Serbian league, which will be strong and significant in Europe and that we mean something in the world and Europe? We can no longer experience these humiliations, underestimations, all of which our politicians are calmly looking at and not addressing at various meetings of many European and world institutions to say what this is about. You've seen Thaci's speech, no one's responding, how much he's attacking Serbia. If we had violently usurped Kosovo's territory, we wanted to do something, and they finally defended themselves from Serbia, which has been present in Kosovo for centuries, which has its sanctity over 600 years old in Kosovo. We have to fight and not complain, no more crying for those who won't, and who's causing us trouble. Our key government people are always going somewhere and signing some agreements. The Secretary of Defense instead of taking out his General Staff, taking out the army, he's just running around and signing something, some alliances, agreements, etc. We accept everything and everything, and that's, we disarm our army, we destabilise, we divide, we destroy, we disband, while others in our territory are building their own country, because it's inexplicable that in one independent state, someone is making a state, and now they're making an army. In this parliament, it has been promised that it will never be allowed to come out of the framework, to enter these waters, which is making the military, that NATO will not train the paramilitary formations that are being made in Serbia's territory and also arm them. These are very serious topics and our delegates and our delegations, who start from Serbia anywhere, have to talk about this all the time. We're a democratic state. When did someone in Serbia stone a Croatian team, a club, when someone set fire to a chess shop here? We had so many problems because of a broken window, you know which embassy. Our flag of gauze, fall, our people, our athletes stone wherever they appear and talk about democracy and they enter the EU, why is it a reward for them, for those who have driven the Serbs from their centuries-old hearths. Why not make a condition for all Serbs to return to their hearths or be adequately paid for their property. So, we're being humiliated, we're simply being trampled out and we're being swept off the floors with us wherever we appear, and that's what our politicians, who are humbled, who are abstaining when they vote against an independent Kosovo, who in politics are neither clear nor loud to us, nor to the people what they want, let alone the world. No one understands us. We want to get through it all, get everybody in touch, and we don't know what we want. Half of Serbia doesn't know what our government wants in individual decisions. Here, as far as Eulex is concerned, a story has been told – Resolution 1244 is respected. Now we see he's disrespected. We see now what the role of Eulex is, what we were talking about. That's why the government fell, that's why the elections were. What happened? The Ahtisaari plan was fully accepted. You want to, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, to say or not, the Ahtisaari plan is being implemented entirely. Look at the results of Ahtisaari's plan. Now the man has also won the Nobel Prize, now he is called on to solve these problems in Croatia and Slovenia. So let's not fool ourselves, get carried away with some ideas. Serbia was dignified even when it was most difficult for her. You think it was easy for us when Solana started coming to Serbia, to run various delegations, to negotiate with our politicians, and we all know that he commanded NATO forces when Serbia was bombed with poor uranium. Now all over Serbia, boys and girls of leukemia die, from cancer, you saw children in primary school. Let's take an example of Chuck, where 235 tons of explosives were dropped at the very center of town, because of the military industry we have. How many young boys and girls from elementary school have died these days? Here's the story, Mr. Todorovic reasoned that individual statements, very influential in the world, were taken by the authorities, traded, killed, that many politicians and military commanders were horrifying outside what they saw in Kosovo. Who was responsible for that? Nobody! Now some of our politicians come out and talk – we have to deal with Belgrade and Pristina's relations. With terrorists who have done such acts and have not been punished, gentlemen?- I'm sorry. It's possible that something could happen against the will of the people, that some of them would do something, but that's not punishable here. Haradinaj is a senior official of the Kosovo government. You've seen all the positions they've got, and now we need to keep our mouths shut. We must, our delegations must present this wherever they appear, warn, speak, speak, and always be clear and loud, to defend a part of our territory, because we have been kidnapped and we know it well. Do not react, you gentlemen of the ruling coalition, do not constantly explain that you are right, do not constantly attack us from the opposition that everything we say is wrong. We're not attacking anyone. Mr. Micunović, don't laugh. I received a statement from the head of the delegation that you were abstentioned when it was voted on by an independent Kosovo. We'll look for a listing to see if you've been held back or not. If he lied to me, then it's his sin, then I apologize to you, but if it was possible, it's inexplicable in this House. We'll look for a listing and make that question clear. Can a representative of a large party, which is the headquarters of the coalition, vote like that or not? If you're right, Mr. Micunovic, I deeply apologize. If you're not, there will be some sanctions and we'll ask that question to be resolved. I mean political sanctions. I don't want to delude now, I just said that the head and member of our delegation can't, let this be a lesson for the next delegations to leave, to have some disagreements. We must be unique and represent this Serbia as it deserves. I repeat, we have many enemies. Don't get too carried away with the EU. You see, everything you've done with them, you've remained short sleeves, gentlemen. You went out with the "win Europe together" theory, "go after Europe." That's what the people from this pay phone used to say. There's something Europe doesn't want you, I don't know why, you need to talk to her. You've got a problem. What's the problem? We want to work together with Europe, but as partners, to respect us, to respect us, to respect the sovereignty of our country, to respect the dignity of the Serbian people, not to humiliate us, to underestimate us. Let them solve your problems. We will see if Croatia will experience any sanctions after all that has happened in Croatia to our athletes. It's not the first time. That's what it's like to play a game on Croatian territory. Is Croatia mature to play international games? Was there an incident in Serbia during the war? Never, no matter what, we were never the ones who hit cars, shot fans, stoned players. Serbia has always been dignified. I say, sometimes there are hooligans, but a small number, but the people have always protected athletes from every country when they come to Serbia and they will protect them. Serbia has always been dignified and will continue to be dignified, but this terror will no longer be tolerated. We can't talk about Kosovo, we can't talk about anything if a Serb in Kosovo doesn't have a basic, i.e. freedom of movement. Can we, gentlemen, as MPs go for a walk in Pristina? We can't. Can we show up for a rally and talk in Pristina, Gjilan, Peca? No, we can't. We're going to get embarrassed. That Europe must also know how to take certain measures. So I ask you to be serious, to ask our politicians to protect us very seriously, to ask the relevant institutions to put this on the agenda and to discuss this. How is it possible that the Security Council is not discussing the situation now in Kosovo? Is the formation of an army of independent Kosovo under their patronage or not? What kind of talks do we have with NATO if in part of Serbian territory it violates Resolution 1244, forms a force and arms a terrorist army with the largest terrorists in Kosovo's territory? Is that why the presence of international forces is down there, to train those who killed Serbs by yesterday wherever they arrived? It's not! That's gotta be explained. So I ask you to seriously discuss this and let our defence minister take it – wherever he goes, he has to discuss this issue, which is NATO's role, and not just run, nod, we come here and sign some agreements. What kind of agreements, if they don't respect us as a nation? Our government had to hold a session and instruct the Croatian government, ask for a meeting with the Croats and see if this would ever happen again. That's not gonna happen. We are being played by a mayor of Zadar, who, for God's sake, is all happy that it happened. As far as I've been following his statements, he's lucky it happened. It's a kind of campaign for him, that he's doing well, etc. Please, we sent our children, our team there to stone it, to break it. What do we do with them on their fields, in their halls, in their playgrounds? Therefore, we need to talk very seriously about these topics. I thank you, but once again, I warn you that delegations show one seriousness and protect and defend wherever the interests of our country of Serbia and the dignity of this people are, not that we allow everyone to humiliate us. People from the ruling coalition, after all this in Kosovo, stop for at least 15 days, don't talk – European Serbia, we are all European, but how Europe humiliates us. Talk to them. It humiliates us the lowest, the meanest, the most corrupt. How are they not ashamed to do what they do in Kosovo?- I'm sorry. Did any of our people talk about it in Brussels? Djelic can't even represent us in kindergarten. How's he going to Brussels? Who sends him more to Brussels? What's his role in Brussels? What are the results of his eight-year work? Dinkic is still sending us some of his businessmen to talk business. Now let's make parallel embassies all over the world, let experts and economists go by the world's best finance minister? It's a disgrace to Serbia. All this is what this people pay for. We need to take care of how and how to do it. We have embassies, we have people in embassies in charge of economic relations with certain countries, what are they doing? How do we make parallel diplomacy now? We're making political diplomacy and economic diplomacy completely separate, like we're from two countries. Please make sure of that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13214	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. You're giving up. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, Nikola Savic, Natasa Jovanovic, is not there. Zoran Krasic. The word is a folk letter from Elena Christmas-Talian, in the order of the registered speakers, and after that, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that the representatives of the ruling majority, and above all, I mean DS and so on. The Progressive Party is campaigning against the SRS. The ruling majority, in breach of the constitution and the law, ending the election will of citizens, has allowed Tomislav Nikolic to form a parliamentary group at the SRS' kidnapped mandates. The ruling majority, and above all DS, legalized the theft of the SRS mandate. Now, he is trying to build on this injustice some right that allegedly belongs to this group gathered around Tomislav Nikolic. The SRS opposes the participation of the group, gathered around Tomislav Nikolic, in the Council of Europe and international organisations. The ruling majority has violated all the rights of the SRS and now our attempt to protect citizens' rights in a legal and legitimate way, protect our rights, what according to the Constitution and the law, you declare the worst possible obstruction. You say that our legal and legitimate struggle to protect the electoral will of citizens, for what belongs to us, for the respect of the Constitution and the law, is "the destruction of the interests of citizens and of our state. "That's what DS officials declared yesterday and today. What you are doing is destroying the interests of citizens, overcoming citizens' rights, ending the electoral will of citizens, and ending democracy at the very end. It is not surprising that the DS is doing the SRS, as the DS also took part in the preparation and planning of the impact on the SRS. Boris Tadic and Nikolic and Vukic are together in this business from the beginning. I would remind you that in the parliamentary elections, held on 11 May 2008, politics and ideology of the SRS, the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj electorate, won 1,219,436 votes and therefore belonged to 78 seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must repeat that the list holder was Dr. Vojislav Seselj and you can see this, all this information, on the official website of the Republic Election Commission. I purposely point out this because it is scandalous what all DS is used to artificially ensure the legitimacy and legality of the group gathered around Tomislav Nikolic. Recently, Boris Tadic pronounced such a fiction. To the journalist's finding that Tomislav Nikolic's party was deprived of electoral legitimacy, Boris Tadic replied: "they have legitimacy, since Tomislav Nikolic was the bearer of the SRS list in previous elections and has unequivocally defined the legitimacy of the party that was created in the meantime. "You are able to make such a lie for something that is very easy to verify. Then what are you capable of doing with information that is more difficult to access to the public? Tomislav Nikolic was not the bearer of the SRS list, but Vojislav Seselj, and even if he were the bearer of the list, it would have been on behalf of the SRS, even in that case, by leaving the SRS he would have lost his legitimacy and legality. I will also remind you of this fact, all MPs from the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj election list, in accordance with Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has irrevocably placed its mandate at the disposal of the SRS. In early September, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic realized a prepared blow to the SRS. The plans and preparation of this failed coup included famous tycoons in Serbia – Miskovic and Beko, the top of the DS, US Ambassador Cameron Manter and British Ambassador Stephen Woodsworth. Nikolic is often in his interviews, and recently we had the opportunity to hear it again, we were making up this fiction, that Seselj never wanted to come to power, and only Nikolic successfully played the role of the Trojan horse and made it impossible for the SRS to participate in power. Everyone knows that this selected society, which I have listed, the tycoons and the American and British ambassadors, has formed this government. The confirmation for this claim is also a meeting of Miskovic with Olli Rehn, who praised Brussels for Miskovic's role in forming the current government. Miskovic, via Nikolic, managed to prevent an attempt to form the ruling SRS-DSS coalition. It was one of Nikolic's tasks, followed by an open blow to the SRS. Nikolic and Vukic have received huge amounts of money for the dirty work, the realization of the impact on the SRS and the formation of the new party. I recently listed the amount of one in a series of cash prizes these two received. Tomislav Nikolic received threem euros from Miskovic and Aleksandar Vukic 1.5m euros. When I brought these facts to the public, Vukic announced for days that he would file criminal charges against himself and would "jump from the top of any building and do so on his head. "It was his clumsy attempt to deny that he received 1.5m euros from Miskovic. It is indicative that Vucic did not attempt to deny, in any single sentence, that Nikolic received threem euros from Miskovic. Nikolic, contrary to Vukic, did not have a suicidal instinct. Without any moral dilemmas, he evidently enjoys this extremely dishonestly earned money. I will also remind you that the mandates of the SRS have been kidnapped. In early September, Nikolic, with the support of the ruling majority, formed a "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group with 18 kidnapped SRS mandates. Nikolic then declares that he allegedly lost MPs' resignations, whom they irrevocably placed their mandate at the disposal of the SRS. Tomislav Nikolic actually stole party documentation. The ruling majority legalises this theft of Tomislav Nikolic and at such a violation of the Constitution and the law of Nikolic, with the support of the ruling majority, and above all DS, forms the Parliamentary Group "Forward, Serbia". He's meeting with the American and British ambassador in public right away. On the question of journalists, why has he not met publicly with these two ambassadors so far, Tomislav Nikolic has answered – "I have so far respected the ideology of the SRS. "We are increasingly hearing from individual ministers in the government the praises given to Tomislav Nikolic for changing his policies and accepting Boris Tadic and DS's policies. Boris Tadic himself notes satisfaction with the political turn of Tomislav Nikolic. So Tomislav Nikolic cannot possibly lay the right to mandates won by the politics and ideology of the SRS, which he gave up publicly and not only gave up the policies and ideologies of the SRS but took over the diametrically opposite DS political programme. The ruling majority, and above all DS, is ready to challenge the rights of legal representatives of the citizens of the SRS group gathered around Tomislav Nikolic to provide rights that do not belong to it. The Serbian Radical Party will not allow that. We will use all legal and legitimate means to protect the electoral will of citizens and to protect the rights that belong to us according to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13216	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13217	Ms. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was injured by Article 239(2), as well as Article 1. A Rules of Procedure which speaks of the rights on the obligations of MPs and Article 104, which was injured by Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I have just received the document of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe under the designation 11792, and it is my obligation, because Mr Micunovic has deceived both you and all of us, and the President of the Assembly voluntarily interpreting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to order again today in the finality of this debate to the entire Serbian public, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that today we remain in Serbia only because of the independence of Dragoljub Micunović and DS he represents. Namely, the document says – considering the accreditation of members and deputies of members of delegations. The report, President of Parliament - in accordance with Rule 6, Paragraphs 1 and 3 on the procedure, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe received the accreditation of members and alternate members for the first meeting in 2009, which were forwarded by competent persons with the authority of members of these countries' parliaments. At point two is said, we will talk about this tomorrow, about some names listed in the disputed function, until I get all the information, and then it is said that according to objective consideration, so the documents received, which was done by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, by sending a letter on 16 January and by telling who the representatives and whose political parties are in the delegation for this meeting, are proposed to confirm to the Serbian delegation members: Milos Aligrudić – DSS, Željko Ivanji – G17 Plus, Milos Jeftic – DS, Dragoljub Micunović – DS, Tomislav Nikolic – SRS, Dragan Todorovic – SRS and no more. A name is missing for another member, which has not been delivered, but it is a delegation in the mole, I would say to the composition, since Mr Ivica Dacic could not be proposed, because he is the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and President of the SPS, and for Deputys Mrs Donko Banović – DSS, Natasu Jovanovic – SRS, Elvira Kovac – SVM, Vjerica Radet – SRS, Natasu Vukković – DS. Mrs. Kolundzija, Mr. Micunovic, this isn't funny. This is today confirmed at the first point of the regular session at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Now you, as a moral man, will resign, as a moral act, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. (President: Time. That's what I'm proposing and that's my suggestion. That's what I'm going to suggest to you tomorrow at the committee session you called, not yet applying to be president and head of our delegation. Besides, I'll repeat last year when Mr. Dacic Ivica, my smallness and you traveled to Strasbourg, because you didn't know that there would be an extraordinary parliamentary election, so that you should be a Caliph instead of a Caliph, instead of Mr. Milos, you said that you were an old man and that you didn't know what you needed to do anymore and to sit in Paris and travel to Strasbourg. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13218	I asked you to pay attention to Article 104, which binds us to the rules of mutual conduct. As regards the objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the President of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Dragoljub Micunović, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 239, with their powers, prepared material for this session and acted in each of the procedures to which they were required and for which they were authorised, so that there are no injuries to Article 104. The word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Shami, from the list which was declared for a word, after which the messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. The DSS has 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13219	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I am not mistaken today is January 26th. I hope Mrs. Comić agrees with me this time, and this assembly was built on June 11th, which she will say, exactly seven and a half months ago. I would like to hear one single reason why in seven and a half months this assembly could not determine, as is the order of consensus, nine delegations for various European and world congregations. Among them are fewer, there are those that are more important, such as a delegation to the Council of Europe, or a delegation to the OSCE. There are also those that are less important, but in any case it was our turn to define these delegations at the time when we were establishing the committees of the assembly at the time. Why is this not done, doubtless guilty, sorry, the ruling majority, or its official representative in this House, and that is the president of the Assembly. This is usually the fifth delegation we choose. So far, we have chosen four delegations, two in the federal parliament, while it was still the jurisdiction of the federal parliament and two in this parliament. It's interesting to remember how we chose these delegations. Two delegations were elected legitimately, by Parliament's decision. The second delegation, elected in 2004 in the Federal Parliament, was then president of parliament and head of the delegation, elected at the first meeting after a constitutional session, at the same time as we elected the committees of the Assembly and was selected without discussion. The whole point lasted maybe two and a half minutes. There are more people sitting here, who were MPs in Parliament at the time, and they can confirm what I'm saying. Also, the last delegation at the time of Mr. Dulic's chairmanship is regular, if memory does not deceive me, chosen in this parliament on the basis of a consensus made among political parties. Then let me tell you that this consensus is not difficult to make, because the rules are not ours but the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Europe, so that they make it very clear that the composition of the delegation must correspond to the composition of Parliament. So, you can't have a party that has 10% to get 30%, or vice versa, and there's some more oscillators about gender equality, etc. There are rules to the game to which it is done. It is an expedient circumstance that one delegation is not elected, but nine delegations, so when some decimals come to it, it can be overcome immediately with good will and a good methodology. There is no excuse for the ruling majority and for Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who was the first to be cast out in that field, why this has not been done in the past seven and a half months. I know, you're going to say the problem, though, I'll remind you, that problem was only created in September, if memory doesn't cheat on me, but also that problem that came up and was the problem is that it solves the ruling majority, not to push the problem under the carpet, and when you start to push dirty things under the carpet, then eventually the house stinks somewhere. There have been past days, and to say, several extremely inappropriate and inappropriate different statements concerning the composition of the delegation. First, to make it clear to everyone that everyone who has been elected to the delegation, whether among those first seven or among those other seven, and then I will explain why, if he wishes, he has the right to attend a meeting at the plenary session of the Council of Europe and the composition of that team that travels to the plenary session is not a matter of any of our assembly committees, this goodwill of the Assembly, to send or not. That's normal. Look, we are full of Europe's mouth when we talk about an EU that covers 27 countries, in the Council of Europe, I'm sorry, there are 46 countries, of which only Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe, and those of the largest ones, such as Russia, Great Britain, France, Germany, to those of the smallest ones such as Andorra, Monaco, Luxembourg, etc. It is undoubtedly our interest to take part in both the Council of Europe and the OSCE and not only the plenary sessions of the Council of Europe, but also important committees such as the Political Committee or the Committee on Legal Affairs, etc. It is not a matter of goodwill, whether someone will travel or not, the ruling majority, but it is simply the right of MPs to travel. Secondly, here we are talking about seven members and seven reserves, to be clear to everyone, I'm not sure that everyone knows that, law and members and those who are reserves is the same as the discussion. So each of those 14 people, as many as we have there, can apply for a discussion and, of course, discuss it if it comes to order. You can check with Mr. Ruzic, he's discussed several times even though he was a deputy member of the delegation at the time and there was no problem to discuss, only that our country has seven votes, so you, like when you set a team in the handball, say that day – this seven should vote. You can set up any of these 14 members. So, I think it's a big shame that today our representatives aren't in Strasbourg, the damage has been caused by seven and a half months spent for nothing, literally for nothing, and it's been created, let's be well-intentioned, based on the wrong assessment that we're not necessarily there this time. Let me say, to be well-intentioned, because I'm afraid it's not some slightly different reason, that perhaps we weren't meant to attend the first reading of the Kosovo and Metohija resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13220	National MP Tomislav Nikolic is answering for a word. Is it like a breach of the Rules of Procedure? As president of the parliamentary group. Then, MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13221	Mrs. Comic, I will no longer answer about this issue about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but I insist again, please, put in the voting day that Dragoljub Micunovic broke the Rules of Procedure and now I am going to give you further arguments, I did not arrive just now because of the time. It's nothing personal, Mr. Micunovic, but because of the fact that you are in that position. I don't really know that any MP from any political party is acting as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it's a great burden, a great responsibility, for you to make the decision, to see that all day is debate. You see, when the debate began on all international delegations, every MP who reported here was just talking about why we're not in the Council of Europe today. It's not your fault, Mrs. Comic. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic did what she had to do in this vacuum. But who made the decision? We, the Serbian Radicals, are not a majority, no one has decided on any committee today that we are not there, because you see, Mrs. Komic, in this document that I have just read, which was adopted once and which has been accredited by the names of members and deputies, and rightly so, Mr. Shami, we all have the same rights and the same obligations there, we must work on committees and participate in parliamentary debates on points, especially those concerning our country or our friends, as is the friendly and brotherly Russian Federation. The day after tomorrow, the two resolutions will be discussed, the humanitarian consequences of the Russian-Georgian war and the implementation of the Resolution that the Council of Europe wanted to pack up in October's session, because it protects its national state interests. Therefore, someone also has to explain to me to the members of the SRS, I see that this is what members of the other parties who are in the delegation are asking, why we have been disabled, when not only have ratified our accreditations, based on this letter, but have even called on this document that they are not at all entering into what is happening in the Assembly and they, as I told you, do not know any new parties, because besides the name Tomislav Nikolic, who has been excluded, who has issued the SRS, writes the SRS, because they cannot write there "Forca Italy". How are they gonna write? I mean, to write something, because they don't know what's going on here, because if you know it, they can't as a Council of Europe whose role is to protect democracy, to protect choice, to get reports. Please, Mrs. Comic, after 11 May, they received a report on the May 11th elections in Serbia, results, received the RIK report, the Republic Statistics Institute. Well, it's not an international body that's been around for so many years, with so many member states, that it's playing with citizens' election will, but someone's been playing with the state of Serbia today. A statement has been issued, and I will conclude, signed by the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Secretary-General, which is what SRS MPs, Mr Todorovic, Mrs Radeta and my smallness agree on today, but we could not be in Strasbourg... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... and make a statement about it, and it's about the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust that's being marked tomorrow. That's why Serbia has such a rating, and that's why you humiliate us more and more, because the whole government is in the hands of one party and one man, DS and Boris Tadic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13222	National MP Dragoljub Micunovic did not harm any member of the Rules of Procedure by acting and procedures, and in the appointment of the Committee and all the obligations it has as chairman of the Committee, as well as the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The additional question is, why aren't we there? Because we do not have a delegation and that is why we now have a session of the National Assembly at which we are making a decision on the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Article 104 has seriously injured the dignity of the National Assembly, the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia has been shamed and shamed by one man's actions on the Serbian Parliament's misfortune, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Thanks to his likely failure to do so, Mr Micunovic denied Parliament's delegation's right to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at a time when Kosovo and Metohija were already being discussed today, when the interests of the Serbian state were seriously at stake. Mr. Micunovic, as far as we could tell, was also deceived by the president of the National Assembly, because he said we do not have a delegation and the lady accordingly has cancelled the delegation's trip. Today we see that the credentials are confirmed, that they are neat, we see that this delegation that exists until we choose a new delegation could do the job at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and today we see that thanks to the will of a man, a single man, Serbia is not represented in the Council of Europe. Today we had a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was scheduled by the vice president, because the president did not find it appropriate, he found it the other day, and then it was cancelled once, then the second, and then the third time, and, since today at 1100 hours we could not hold a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have tomorrow, at the invitation of the President, Mr Micunovic. Mr. Micunovic, that agenda that you predicted for that session will have to wait a little while, to discuss what you did, not us, not the delegation that was supposed to go, what you did to the state of Serbia, and to explain to us, first to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so together we will explain to the MPs why this happened, how it happened, how much damage it was from your boss, and we will finally discuss it. I know you have 126 and whoever has 126 can say that the ball is fourth, that the cube is round, that the country is fourth, but it won't be long. You will have to face yourself, in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in front of the mirror, Mr Micunovic, that man is the best to discuss. I know there are some here who can't look themselves in the mirror, and I expect you to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13224	National MP, MP Dragoljub Micunovic, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, did not violate any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or in the appointment of a session of the National Assembly, nor when preparing material for the agenda. In my previous report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I said that I would warn you in the manner of conduct and the obligation to respect Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I repeat this warning in order to keep the measure necessary for the competence of treating one another. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I gave my word at the meeting of the chiefs of Parliament's clubs that I will not insist at this session on the silence you will have to provide me at the first session of our legislative activities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13226	Excuse me, MP. MP Nikola Savic, I give you a warning about the interference of the speaker and the violation of Article 104! Tomislav Ljubenović, I give you a warning about disrupting speakers and beating objects about inventory! People's MPs from the sixth to the ninth order, I give you a warning for the demeaning of the National Assembly, and I ask you to stop banging things about inventory, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! Choose ways of political struggle differently, not by demeaning the institution of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13227	Today I am repeatedly injured, not offended, as a man of many...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13228	Excuse me, MP. People's Messenger to Srboljub Zivanovic, I give you a warning about hitting the inventory case! Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13229	Of those of whom, at the very least, I didn't deserve it, and what I'm going out now is because of my family, because of people who know me, because of people who love me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13230	People's Messenger, Dobrislav Prelicu, I give you a warning about hitting the inventory case! Excuse me, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13231	I believe that the citizens of Serbia would remain deprived of this today's pay phone date, and I am convinced that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13232	People's MP, Dejana Mirovic, I give you a warning about the inventory and the interference of the MP and the violation of Article 104! Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13233	If I'd known he'd be like this... This is going to last today. So, I can handle anything...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13234	Excuse me, MP. National MP Jadranko Vukovicu, I give you a warning about the inventory and violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13235	So, I'm gonna make it through a lot because I was getting ready for this, and I knew when I started leading my life and my politics...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13236	Excuse me, MP. People's MP, Sladjana Myaljević, I give you a warning about the impact of the inventory and violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13237	There are those who don't beat, the chairman, that's interesting. They don't respect the warrant. I knew I'd be exposed to the harshest insult...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13238	Excuse me, MP. People's MP, Milan Avramovic, I give you a warning about the inventory and violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly! Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13239	We're completely saved by the people who did it, you can't get us out of the beat, you can't kick us out, we left a 19-year-old there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13240	Excuse me, MP. People's MP, Suleiman Spaho, I give you a warning about the impact of the inventory and the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly! People's MP, please don't throw away, I'm trying to apply article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to ensure... I ask the MP Natasa Jovanovic not to disturb me in holding the session, and I warn her that it is the basis for a warning and application of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm trying to apply Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and because hitting cases on the inventory of the National Assembly and obstructing speakers, any speaker, are forbidden to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For several weeks, so-called three months, the will of the SRS parliamentary group takes place to express its political stance by hitting the inventory case. Enough time for us, who are chairman, both President and colleague Nikola Novakovic and I, to see who violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by hitting cases on inventory and that is the basis for giving notices per article 106, because of the reputation of the National Assembly. By beating up an inventory case you do not express any of the other fellow MPs, you do not express a political attitude by banging on the inventory, simply demeaning an institution where we all sit together and where we all have to work together. So, learned to notice which of the MPs struck by an inventory case, I will give notices on the basis of Article 106, because it is a threat to the reputation of the National Assembly, the demeaning of the National Assembly, and something that we together, 250 of us should not tolerate and endure. Excuse me, MP to stand by the pay phone, please. Time's gonna run out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13241	I congratulate you on the courage that so far no one has shown the leading sessions of the National Assembly. I didn't think I was taking my word for it because it's very important that these delegations be elected and because never before in the 18 years of the multi-party system in Serbia is debated. For seven years we have chosen these delegations and never, nor in the election committees have we discussed anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13242	To the MP Natasa Jovanovic, I give a warning about the interference of the speaker!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13243	We really wanted the delegation to be elected as soon as possible, to travel to Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13244	National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, I give you a warning about hitting cases in inventory and violating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as the People's Messenger to Lydia Dimitrijevic!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13245	So we are not satisfied with the way we have been represented by all the presidents of the delegations in Strasbourg so far. I am speaking for Strasbourg, for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for the behaviour of certain DOS MPs who now accuse each other of sometimes not doing something in Serbia's interest. It happened very often, and they knew about it while they were together in power, while some led the state through the government, others through the president, or while they were together in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So I find it somewhat immoral that you are now accusing each other of what you did at that time, and you did not report here to the Assembly that, for example, a member of the delegation acted beyond the decisions made by the Assembly. By warning the Assembly that we have entered an organisation in which an MP is free to vote on his will because he has his mandate in the Council of Europe, because neither the countries from which they come can order him to discuss, how he will vote, or in which group he will be a member. This should already be the end of the discussion, and we should turn to what life is. The latest information suggests that Fiat has completely given up building a factory in Kragujevac. I warned you a month and a half ago, I said - we'll build you monuments if that factory starts working, but you'll be the biggest conmen in the history of the state if there's nothing from that factory. Free action, cheaters, you've won the election on several promises the people were so eager to take for them. Today it's so far from us. There's an army forming on KIM. You all shut up, let the Serbs on KIM fear and move slowly. The Croats humiliate us as a people, as their neighbours, as people with whom God wants them to have sports competitions in ancient times, so during these competitions, they stop being hostiles, and you here act like little children, as if everyone in Serbia has good wages, as if everyone in Serbia had new shoes to beat them on the bench, as if they all had good suits, as if everyone in Serbia were satisfied, only you to return the SRS mandates that do not belong to them. So I left everything to you there, I just took my life, my mandate and my ideology that you didn't deserve, because I could have won three million votes there. The person who issued the party would have reported that a warrant would have one of you come out for a pay phone when it was the most important rally and knock down the ratings, knock down the number of votes so the SRS wouldn't be in power. We could win two million votes in the election, and Seselj would declare Kostunica the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic the Deputy Prime Minister, and we should stay this way for Parliament. So think about it, my dear brothers and friends, what you're getting into and who betrayed the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13246	People's MP, the time has been used to say injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13247	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all day long listening to the debate, I've been trying to come to the conclusion that it is in the interest of which it is in the interest that our delegation does not go to Strasbourg today at the Council of Europe Assembly. It is certain that the parliamentary majority for some reason did not respond. Dragoljub Micunovic as the first exhibit, i.e. as head of delegation, had to carry out the warrant, but now after Mr Nikolic's discussion, it seemed to me that there were really little fingers involved between the US and English ambassadors. Manter and Woodsworth must have given the order to the ruling majority and Tomislav Nikolic, over little Vukic, not to appear there. What gives me for right? Mr Nikolic's claim, even though he knows it himself, said that Mr. Micunovic did not vote on the agenda of the KIM resolution, which means that he did not agree with the resolution, that it is necessary for the delegation to have such a composition to be even more Micunovic, to be more Micunovic than those who would vote in the interest of the Serbian state. Now, that's the only reason why it didn't go out today in that old band, but it needs to be a new composition. And who knows, we will see, when this assembly is finished, what was at hand, what was under points concerning Russia and Georgia, if there was any need for support from the Serbian delegation, as we have returned to some important state issues of support for their delegations. There's probably some tycoons who found some interest. This story that little Vukic presents every day to Tomislav Nikolic, saying that they are allegedly concerned about the difficult life in Serbia and the story of expensive suits, I don't know whether or not who has a more expensive suit than Tomislav Nikolic and whether he has more property than he does. Let's all get together here. I don't think there's a more difficult man than he is about that. So here's the answer, Miss Natasha asked that question - why didn't our delegations leave? Because English and American ambassadors didn't want that. Time will show why. And who were they working through? Through DS and Tomislav Nikolic, who, of course, must carry out all the tasks of Boris Tadic and these two ambassadors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13248	The word has a People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13249	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 101. The delegation did not leave because the new assembly did not elect a delegation. The old composition of the delegation is not legitimate. It is much greater damage and shame for this country to show that Parliament does not care that it respects the fact that elections have been held here, that after these elections some changes have taken place in this Parliament and that, based on the state of parliament, it elects its own delegation after the election. The reason why delegations have not been elected so far is because after the election and the constitution of this Parliament, as usual until then, we have had consultations of the heads of Parliament clubs and established proportions and proportions based on the representation of parliamentary groups in this Parliament and what parliamentary group has members, deputies etc. in all international delegations. After that, the division within the SRS took place and, as set out in the proposal submitted by the SRS itself to the Speaker of the Assembly, it proposed, in the composition of permanent parliamentary delegations, on the basis of its representation in Parliament in the number of 61 MPs. And on the basis of their proposal and agreement reached by the representatives of the SRS, they have exactly as many members and deputies as they have suggested. So, what happened then? The SRS did not dispute the right, or proportion on the basis of which it has 61 MPs, but the SRS disputes the fact that there are 250 MPs here, so there are 19 other MPs who are not SRS. You have not disputed this with your proposal, but what you now want to challenge and why this delegation has not left is that representatives of that group of MPs, 19 MPs, have their representatives in permanent delegations in international organisations and institutions – that is a simple reason. So, on the question why we don't have a delegation -- we don't have delegations because they haven't been elected. The delegation did not leave because there is no delegation that has legitimacy. We're on the agenda today, and that's exactly what we have. When we vote these delegations, then we'll have delegations with full legitimacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-26-0.u13250	We're finishing work for today. The paper will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours of debate, in accordance with the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in a single search on the proposal to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, tomorrow, 27 January at 10.00 hours. The first in that order is the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. By applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs, or more than one third of MPs, have been found present at this time, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session in the morning part of the following MPs: Dr Nikola Krpić, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Riza Halimi and Laslo Varga. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS (addition) We are continuing on a reminder for this first item of the agenda. Compared to yesterday, the word will be given to the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Just before the start of the afternoon session of the National Assembly, we received a notice from RTS, addressed to the National Assembly Secretary, Mr. Veljak Odalovic, saying: "We inform you that on Tuesday, 27 January 2009, from 10 hours, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in direct transfer to the Second Programme of RTS, due to the transfer of the tennis match Dokić-Safina. The transfer will continue after the match is over. On the same day, between 15.20 and 17 hours, we have an obligation to transfer the handball game Serbia – Macedonia, and from 18 hours – to play the basketball game Cup of Europe, Red Star – Pames. Since 20 hours, we're going to be transferring to the Festival Academy. ''I apologize to the MPs for reading the RTS programming scheme, but we got a notice about this right before the beginning of the session, so I wasn't able to call a meeting of the president and president of the parliamentary groups, to make a deal in the work. Accordingly, by sharing a firm decision that the work of the National Assembly is public, I set a break of up to 12 hours, and at 10:30, in the first floor hall, I ask the presidents and presidents of the parliamentary groups to come to the meeting, or consultations, to agree on the course of today's work.
