ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28815	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH OTHER SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 26th October 2009 (The first day of work) (The session began at 14.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 199 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Lazic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Laslo Varga. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representative, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, called for the members to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Justice Ministry and Jovan Ćosic, head of Justice. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed putting the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 141 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 141 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat high-tech crime be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 142 MPs, 121 declared themselves. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities be put on the agenda. I'm asking you to make a statement about this law. Of the 141 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I also find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law establishing the maximum number of employees in the republican administration. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal as well. Of the 142 MPs present, 124 declared themselves. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the list of candidates for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and citizens' associations be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 142 MPs present, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information suggested putting on the agenda of the list of candidates for the members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, following an urgent procedure. I'm asking for a statement. Since 142, as many of us as we are in the O.R., 126 has been declared, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft loan agreement on the agenda (Corridor 10 Highway Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 20 voted in favour. I find that we have not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Of the 128 MPs, two voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Regulation of Courts be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 125 have been made known to this proposal. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law establishing the maximum number of employees in the local administration. Of the 133 MPs, 124 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, it's 118. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Milisav Petronijevic proposed that the draft law on the approval of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (ERENA) be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 125 have been made known to this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint principled examination of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities for the Combating of High-Techn Crimes and Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy; 2. Joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance; 3. Joint principled examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of a maximum number of employees in the Republic administration and the Proposal for a Law on the establishment of a maximum number of employees in the local administration; 4. Joint principled search on the draft law on classification of activity, the draft law on official statistics and the draft law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, the 2011 List of Agricultural Law; 5. Joint principled search on the proposal for a law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11, the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and the distribution of gas pipelines, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act and the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity; 6. Joint principled search on the draft bankruptcy law and the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants; 7. Joint principled search on the Proposal for a Marks Act, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars, Proposal for a Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights; 8. Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (carrying – multi-part electro-motor garneries) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank of Serbia (Improvement of the Power Network of Serbia), Proposal for a Law on the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on the Credit for the Implementation of the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia (Create for the Assistance of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Treaty on the Assistance of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Treaty on the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Amendment to the Convention on Amendments to the Amendment to the Convention, Proposal for Amendments to the Convention on the Law on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, A joint single search on a list of candidates for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and a list of candidates for members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28817	It's not just a proposal from MP Vlatko Ratkovic. There's another suggestion. Please stick to the members of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28818	Please, I have to finish this first, because before you answer, I put you to the vote. Of the 132 MPs, as many as we are, 125 is for. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Proposal to merge the debate. A group of 21 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party - Vojislav Kostunica proposed that, on the basis of Article 90, paragraphs 3 and 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do: 1. Joint principled examination of the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors; 2. Joint principled search on the 2011 List of Population, Households and Apartments Bill and the 2011 Agricultural List Act; 3. Joint principled search on the draft bankruptcy law and the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants; 4. Joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars and the Proposal for a Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design; 5. Joint principle search on the List of candidate members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens and the List of candidates for members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute; 6. Joint principle search on items 28 to 39 of the agenda; 7. Joint principle search on items 37 to 48 of the agenda; 8. Joint principle search on items 49 to 51 of the agenda. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28819	I'm not going to ask for a special breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to point at her during this three-minute exposure. Namely, when a group of MPs propose a common principle search, the principle of priority and temporas is first seen, the mire in iura, which means that the first proposal that has arrived for the merger of the agenda points must be discussed first. Article 91 The Rules of Procedure say – about the proposed amendments and additions to the agenda, a search is being carried out in which only the proposings of the agenda change and the draft act, etc., and the debate may take three minutes. So there's a debate. If you have two equal proposals, it is necessary to read both proposals and open the debate, by participating the proposings or the mandated representative, and then deciding on them. You have come to the situation to decide on changes and amendments to the agenda, and then to read the proposal of a group of 21 MPs. What do we decide now? Let me ask you, what should we decide? If this decision were to be made, she would have derogated the previous one. So, by making this decision, a previous decision would have been made, and that would have practically meant that this agenda was adopted. It's an extremely incorrect act of conduct on your part. In the end, you have proposed such a agenda, you have proposed such a merger of points, which did not surprise us too much, just in time for this assembly not to be able to discuss the Statute of Vojvodina, because it is a painful point that bothers you and you do not know how to deal with it; not to rebalance the budget, but to be reportedly preparing the budget for next year, although by law you are obliged to do so; that there should be no debate on the proposals of the law, which you did not even propose on the agenda, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, plus NS MPs, such as – the transfer of the powers of Vojvodina; that there would be no words on the proposed solutions, such as the Law on the National Assembly, etc. So, you buy time, you buy it in a shameless way, and then, by manipulating the way you run the session, you put us all in a position that we can't seriously discuss the proposed agenda. The points you've brought together, although you've been very stingy this time, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, yet you've suggested that they join in a way that's inappropriate for a quality debate. The way we suggested joining the dots is a rational way of joining the agenda points, where you can see which points of the agenda are really conditioned, within the meaning of Article 142(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We may have made only one mistake when it comes to the merger of dots, and the law on the confidentiality of data and the law on amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance could have been joined. This is the way you work. This is the way you do not represent the role of Parliament in this society, and this is the way you think, not only you think, but you run the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a disgrace to this country. The only ones who are real agents of shameful action are you and the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28820	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am voting on Mr Aligrudic's proposal. I ask the MPs to come forward with a proposal from a group of 21 MPs. Of the 154 MPs, 25 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. We're moving on to the agenda. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 131 MPs, to be said, 127 is in favour, so I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to Fight High-Technology Crime, 6. Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy, 7. “ The Bible’s View of the World, ” 5 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, 10. Proposal for a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, 11. Proposal for a law establishing the maximum number of employees in the local administration, 12. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 13. Proposal for a Labour Classification Act, 14. “ What Is It? ”? 4 / 15 Proposal for a law on censuses, households and dwellings in 2011, 16. Proposal for a Agricultural List Act 2011, 17. Proposal for a law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11, 18. Proposal for a law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of hydrocarbons, 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, 20. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, 21. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, 22. Proposal for a Law on the Single Election List, 23. Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality, 24. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, 25. Proposal for a bankruptcy law, 26. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, 27. Proposal for a trade mark law, 28. Proposal for a law on the protection of topography of integrated cars, 29. Proposal for a law on legal protection of industrial design, 30. Proposal for a law on copyright and related rights, 31. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (cars – multi-part electric furniture) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 32. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Improvement of the JP "Electro Network of Serbia") 33. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of the "Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Assistance Programme through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies", 34. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the EIB's activities in the Republic of Serbia, 35. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Statute of the International Monetary Fund, 36. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 37. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Sweden on General Provisions and Conditions for Development Co-operation, 38. Proposal for a law confirming the Development Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic, 39. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on General Provisions and Conditions of Development Co-operation, 40. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 41. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus, 42. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on exemptions from the free trade regime under the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Free Trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Russian Federation of 28 August 2000, 43. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 44. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, 45. Proposal for a law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, 46. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 47. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, 48. Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on International Exhibitions, 49. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex XVIII to the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of Specialities of the United Nations Agency relating to the World Tourism Organization, 50. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, 51. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Republic of Serbia and the Syrian Arab Republic, 52. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the temporary employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Belarus and citizens of the Republic of Belarus in the Republic of Serbia, 53. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and activities of the Regional Office of the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Serbia, 54. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on scientific and technological co-operation, 55. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in imports of irradiated nuclear fuel from a research reactor in the Russian Federation, 56. Proposal for a Law confirming the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA), 57. List of candidates for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of domestic NGOs and citizens' associations, 58. A list of candidates for members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. Before we go to work on the established agenda, or at the first point, I'm setting a break of an hour. We'll continue our work at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move to paragraphs 1 to 6 of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITIES, THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITIES, THE PROGRAMME OF THE COUNTRY AND THE AUTHORITY OF THE STATE ORGANISATION OF THE COUNTRY AUTHORITIES IN THE CRIME AND THE COURT OF THE COURT OF CRIME (joint principled search) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of the People. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Đuro Peric – Publisher's group of PUPS, MP Djordje Milicevic – MP group SPS-JS, MP Miroslav Petkovic – Parliamentary group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vlatko Ratkovic – Parliament group of ZES and MP Aleksandar Martinović – SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled search on those points of the agenda. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Before I give my word to Justice Minister Snezani Malovic, MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 141. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which reads: ''The bill, before considering in the National Assembly, shall be considered by the committees responsible and by the Government, if it is not the legislator. The competent committees and the Government, if not the legislator, in their reports or opinions, may propose to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the draft law in principle.' Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, speeds and dynamics that change the laws of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia really cross every reasonable line. I don't think there are any people in Serbia today who can accept that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is stable and that the justice system works without any problems. I doubt you can find a student who studies at any law school in the Republic of Serbia who can, without question, tell you the status of judge, public prosecutors, what their rights and obligations are. In this situation, we are now starting to consider a set of amendments to the addition of judicial laws, in a semi-camera atmosphere, where the ruling coalition MPs have very little, without the opinion of the competent committee, the Justice and Administration Committee. I think it's scandalous. It is an extremely important law issue, and I think it would be the turn, Mrs. Komic, that, before we begin to discuss these bill proposals, the committee of jurisdiction, the Committee of Justice and Administration, and that its opinion on the proposed laws, otherwise, will not make any sense. In general, everything that happens to the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia says that the regime is ready to create complete lustration and a cleanup of inadequate personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28823	It's been two minutes. People's MP, there's no breach of Article 141 which, from your explanation, did not follow. So you quoted item 1 as saying that the bill before the National Assembly is considered by the competent committees and by the Government, if it is not the legislator. The same Article 141 also holds a 5th position – unless the committees deliver reports, i.e. the Government has an opinion on the draft law, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions. The Legislative Committee considered the first six points and the report on the conclusions, i.e. on the work of the Legislative Committee, which was delivered to the MPs, so either you had no idea that the report had been delivered, or that you deliberately misused the right of Article 100 to speak of something that the other 249 MPs had different information about, as reports on the work of the Legislative Committee were delivered. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28824	Mrs. Komic, a member of the 79th century, two, three and four of this Rules of Procedure has been injured and, automatically, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Your explanation to Mr Martinovic that he was sitting the Legislative Committee is not necessary, because the objection was not applied, of course, not to him, he knows it well, on the Legislative Committee, but to the parent board, which is the Committee on Justice and Administration. For the sake of the public, it should be known that this committee was scheduled past the Rules of Procedure, at 13 o'clock, but at that time the vote on the points of the previous session was held. Then again at 1:30 a.m., it was tried, i.e. After the vote, he tried to meet the committee, in a way that the opposition MPs were not informed at all, at least the SRS MPs. We accidentally passed and saw the ruling majority MPs trying to organise the quorum, but failed, because the ruling majority MPs did not attend this illegally scheduled session of the Justice and Administration Committee. Why did I call on article 79? Because as a member of the Committee, I was not in a position to, as provided for by Article 79 in my last position, set out my opinion and explain it as a member of the Committee here before the Members of Parliament and to use the Rules of Procedure for five minutes. You are also thus trying to deny the MPs to do their job, because the ruling majority do not want to do their job and because they do not want to attend board meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28825	Two minutes. There is no breach of Article 79, and there is no violation of Article 104. I have already read the final point of view of Article 141. Therefore, the laws will be considered, regardless of whether they are considered by the competent committees and by the government. I will ask you to refrain from your claims of what they want and what other MPs think, no matter what MP group they belong to, because this is a violation of Article 104 and a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28826	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about a short replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28827	People's MP, you know for sure, much better than I do, that you have no right to do that. Thank you. Does anyone else have a desire to spot a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I ask, does the representative, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, want a word? (Yes) Please just sign in. Here you go. Snezana Malovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28828	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this united debate on six laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, prepared by the Ministry of Justice, I would like to stress their importance in the further process of judicial reform. These bill proposals, along with the laws already passed, need to round up the organisational reform of our judicial system. At first, I'd like to present a draft law on the Judicial Academy. The new laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and that the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, as well as the Law on Public Prosecutors, provide for the right of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors to be trained professionally, and that this right will be governed by a special law. Also, a special law provides for training of judicial and prosecutorial staff, both those working in administrative affairs and judges and prosecutors' assistants and trainees. In view of this, it is necessary to pass a law which will educate a special institution responsible for judicial training, as well as a system of training of judicial and judicial authorities. I would remind you that there is already one such institution in the Republic of Serbia, which is called the Judicial Training and Training Centre, whose founders are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Association of Judges of Serbia. The National Strategy for Justice Reform is designed to transform this centre into a Judicial Academy, which achieves not only the exercise of the rights guaranteed by those laws, but also the establishment of an important objective criterion in the election and promotion of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, but also employees in the judiciary. The Law on the Judicial Academy is proposed to create a clear normative framework that will regulate training in the judiciary, which will contribute to the creation of a modern, efficient and impartial justice system and further improve the introduction of clear, objective and measurable criteria in the selection and promotion of judicial institutions. The general objective of establishing a judicial academy is to contribute to the development of expertise and professional legal culture, while respecting the needs of the Republic of Serbia and the more effective conduct of judicial proceedings, all in order to exercise citizens' right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable time. In addition, the bill also fulfils the obligations made by the Republic of Serbia as a member of the UN and the Council of Europe, which are contained in certain documents of these organisations. These documents highlight the close link between the initial and permanent training of judicial holders with the independence and efficiency of the overall judicial system. I would like to note that the draft law on the Judicial Academy, which is today, has been drawn up by a working group composed of judges and public prosecutors, as well as other prominent experts in the field of education of judicial officials and with the support of the OSCE mission in the Republic of Serbia. Now I would like to brief you on the most important solutions that contain the draft law on the judicial academy. The bill contains seven parts: general provisions, activity and organisation of the Academy, training of judges and prosecutors, training of lecturers and mentors, special training programme of judges and prosecutors assistants and trainees, training of judicial and prosecutorial staff and transitional and final provisions. The first part of the bill contains provisions relating to the establishment of a judicial academy. Its objective is legal status. The aim of the establishment of the Academy is to provide professional, independent, impartial and effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions and to carry out the tasks of judicial and prosecutorial staff effectively. The judicial academy is defined as an institution established by the Republic of Serbia and which is active in the exercise of the rights laid down by law and has the property of a legal person. This status of the Academy also establishes an institutional link between the Academy, the Government, presented through the Ministry of Justice, as well as the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, as bodies which, under the Constitution, are guarantees of independence and independence of courts and judges, or the independence of public prosecutors. The work of the Academy is not limited only to the organisation and implementation of training, but also to the establishment of co-operation with domestic, foreign and international institutions, organisations and associations, as well as the publication of publications, research and documentation works, through the documentation and information centre. This solution is accompanied by the best practice of modern judicial training, which increasingly implies active co-operation not only with training centres for other related professions, but also with judicial and other countries' schools, as well as with various international organisations whose members are members of the judiciary training institutions, such as the Lisbon Council of Europe Network or the European Network for EU Justice Training. As the authorities of the academy, the board of directors, directors and programme councils have been designated. The most important competence of the Management Board is the adoption of the training programme. In addition, the Management Board shall give consent to the appointment of members of the Board of Reception and other Permanent Committees of the Programme Council, decide on the level of compensation for the work of lecturers and mentors and shall adopt statutes and other acts of the Academy. The Programme Council shall be defined as the expert body of the Academy responsible for establishing the programme of initial and permanent training, i.e. the training of lecturers and the identification of the programme of entrance examinations, in accordance with the practice of most countries with judicial training institutions and with those international standards. The composition and conditions to be met by the members of the Programme Council, which are called the Management Board, provides both the judge and the public prosecutors and the judicial and prosecutorial staff. The bill regulates the initial and continuous training of judges and prosecutors. The number of users of initial training for judges of a criminal or basic court, i.e. the Deputy Prosecutor General, shall be determined by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, according to the objective needs of the judiciary. The candidates for initial training shall take the entrance exam, which shall include a practical and theoretical test, as well as a personality test. Users of the initial training programme attend training in courts, prosecutors and institutions outside the judiciary. At the end of the initial training program, users take the final exam. The High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors are under the obligation to propose to the National Assembly for the functions of judges of the basic court, criminal court or deputy in the primary public prosecutor's office of candidates who completed initial training. If there are no candidates who have completed initial training, only then can they be proposed candidates who meet the general criteria for the selection of the judge of a criminal or of a basic court or of a deputy in the general public prosecutor's office. The law stipulates that the user of initial training is based on a working relationship at the Academy during the duration of training. The scope of the rights and obligations of users of initial training is accompanied by solutions that exist in most European countries. Permanent training of judges and prosecutors is envisaged, in principle, as voluntary, unless other laws provide for it as mandatory. Another deviation from the principle of voluntary training is when the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Major Prosecutors prescribe mandatory training. This refers to cases such as: change of specialisation, substantial changes in regulations, introduction of new work techniques and the removal of shortcomings in the work of judges and prosecutors seen in the evaluation of their work. Data on the ongoing training programme are provided to the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and will have an impact on the progress of judges and deputy public prosecutors. The bill also regulates a special programme of permanent training for judges and prosecutors who were first elected to the three-year term. The purpose of this training is to make it easier for judges and deputies of public prosecutors who are elected for the first time to act and allow faster involvement in the work. In addition, the bill regulates the training of judicial and prosecutorial assistants and trainees, as well as judicial and prosecutorial staff performing administrative tasks. The special paper is a solution whereby candidates for judicial or prosecutorial trainees are obliged to take the entrance exam in order to be accepted to carry out the traineeship. In view of the standards of the Council of Europe regarding the representation of judges and prosecutors in the management bodies of the institutions responsible for training the holders of judicial functions, as stated in the experts of the Council of Europe on the draft law on the judicial academy, it was necessary to amend the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, which allowed judges and public prosecutors to be members of the Administrative Board of the Judiciary Academy. For these reasons, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have proposed a draft law supplementing the Law on Judges and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, which introduces an exception to the rules that a judge, a public prosecutor, a deputy public prosecutor cannot be in office in public service bodies. The exemption also concerns membership in the managing body of the judicial institution, and on the basis of the decision of the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors. In addition, in order to comply with these bill proposals, the government has submitted amendments to the article. Seven and eight. Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy, which shall be governed by the composition and chair of the Management Board of the Judicial Academy. These amendments suggest that there are four judges elected by the High Council of the Judiciary, two public prosecutors, or the deputy public prosecutor, appointed by the State's Major Prosecutors and three members appointed by the government, on the Administrative Board of the Judiciary. The amendment also suggests that the chairman of the Management Board must be of the order of judicial holders. I would now brief on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. As you know, a new organisation of judicial authorities in the RS began work on 1 January 2010, so it was necessary for these reasons to harmonise all the laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities with the new law on the regulation of courts, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. It is therefore necessary to implement certain amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure. The bill has made certain changes concerning the war crimes prosecutor's organisation, in order to comply with the new public prosecutor's law, which, unlike the previous law, also listed the war crimes prosecutor's office as a special prosecutor's office. With regard to the organisation of the courts, there is a necessary alignment with the new law on the regulation of courts, by laying down the jurisdiction of the special court department in Belgrade for the first-degree trial in the war crimes proceedings for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the jurisdiction of the special court of appeal in Belgrade for the second-degree trial. The paper is about determining the specific conditions that the president and judges of these special departments must meet. In addition, given that the latest amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act have been introduced by the Institute – a plea agreement, the bill gives the possibility to apply this institution also in the war crimes procedure. The bill also specifies the application of the Institute of Witness Associates, due to the specificity of the war crimes proceedings in relation to the organised crime proceedings. The draft law has carried out a necessary provision to regulate the inclusion of time spent in detention before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, as well as the question of placing defenders under official duty in the war crimes proceedings. Also, the bill provides an opportunity for the main search to be conducted and video-recorded, as well as for the recording of the main search to be conducted, in order to make public presentations. Finally, I would also like to present a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat high-tech crime. As I have already cited when presenting the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, and in this case it is necessary to comply with the new law governing the organisation in the judiciary. In addition, the bill introduced a new alignment with the new amendments and additions of the Criminal Code, given that new terms in this law are introduced into terms such as "accounting system" and "computer", so these concepts need to be entered into the concept of high-tech crime. Also, the bill provides for an extended application of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat high-tech crime and to criminal acts against business, where computers and computer systems, computer networks and computer data appear as an object or means of enforcement, i.e. other crimes which may be considered criminal acts of high-tech crime because of the means of execution or use. The extension of the jurisdiction of the national authorities to combat high-tech crime allows for more effective and faster detection and prosecution and trial for those crimes. In the end, I'd like to introduce you to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Courts' Law. A new law on the regulation of courts, which was passed in December 2008, which begins on 1 January 2010, established a new organisation of courts in the Republic of Serbia. This law confers jurisdiction on the conduct of criminal proceedings in the first instance between primary and senior courts. The Supreme Court is responsible for the trial of criminal offences for which, as the main penalty, has been prescribed in prison for more than 10 years, as well as for certain tax offences, regardless of the height of the threatened sentence. This list of criminal offences tried by a senior court, regardless of the level of the prescribed sentence, also requires the addition of certain forms of criminal offences for which, according to the applicable law resolution, the primary court is competent, since they stand out in their own seriousness. These are crimes: promise of an powerless face, promise of abuse of position, kidnapping, trafficking of minors for adoption, violent behavior at a sports event and taking bribes. For the serious forms of those offences, a senior court is in charge, and the proposed solution would be responsible for all forms of these crimes, so that the proposed solution is justified for reasons of efficiency. In addition to that, the jurisdiction of the High Court and of disputes under the Public Information Act is extended, since, according to a valid solution, jurisdiction is divided between basic and higher courts. It is therefore proposed that the High Court also be in charge of disputes over violations, bans on hate speech, protection of the right to private life, or the right to personal record and the failure to publish information. This results in the specialisation of senior courts in disputes concerning the Public Information Act. Given that the latest amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act have significantly extended the application of a reduced criminal procedure, it is proposed that the Court of Appeal be in charge of the Court of Appeal, instead of a higher court, for reasons of integrity, which will achieve a greater uniformity of case-law in the second instance. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted, which will round up the regulatory framework for the start of a new judicial organisation in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28829	Before we continue to work on the work by giving the words of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 142, the notice of authorised representatives: the LDP parliamentary group, the authorised representative is the MP Nebojsa Rangelović, and the MP groups Forward Serbia-Vučeta Toskovic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? I remind you that the presidents, or authorized representatives at this session, have the right to use 10 minutes, or 20 minutes from the time available to them. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28830	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, distinguished government representatives, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, although I am the authorised representative of one opposition parliamentary party, I will not use the time foreseen by our parliamentary group for the general criticism of everything and everything. I'll also try to focus on the positive attributes of the proposed laws and ask some questions whose answers might explain, in my opinion, some under-explanatory parts of the proposed laws. When we discussed a set of judicial laws, i.e. amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, I asked the previous question and pointed out the logic of joining certain points of the agenda into one point. Now I'm not going to ask that question, for the simple reason that I think this time the merger of these dots is in one point that is really going to be debated. Namely, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors, function as a paper in our judiciary, which is called the Judicial Academy. So, I won't stick to the texts of the proposed amendments and the additions of those laws, because I think they're technical and they're necessary for one of these laws to come to life. As for the law on the Judicial Academy, which is the very institution of the Judicial Academy, I can say that LDP MPs will and how to support this intensity of change in our judiciary and of some of the currents of European law. I believe that the introduction of the Judicial Academy is a useful thing and, accordingly, I will ask the question: how much French experience has contributed to the creation of the text of one of these laws? In accordance with French experience, I will also ask a question concerning members involved in public competition and reception conditions for initial training. Indeed, French experiences, in my knowledge, are positive and allow judicial functions to be worn by those who are the best. I believe that the reason for the existence of a judicial academy in our country is the same, i.e. that one such law and such an institution should enable the best among the best to be holders of judicial functions. So, according to our support for an institution like this, I'd like to ask a couple, you could say, both technical and essential issues. In particular, it concerns Articles 28 and 29. In this regard, Article 29 states: “The aim of the admission exam is to establish the degree of expertise necessary to attend the initial training programme and the ability to perform judicial and prosecutorial functions. ” Article 28, which treats the conditions for admission to initial training, states: “The conditions for entry for initial training’, among other things, are: ‘the legal exam passed, the fulfilment of general conditions for the work in the state authorities’. I have the impression that there is some overlap and unnecessary repetition, because what is in Article 28 indicates that students, according to current legislation, already meet the legal requirements of being judges, or prosecutors. I would ask that this issue not be seen as a criticism of the law and as a criticism of the institution of the judicial academy, but as a criticism of the existing judicial exam, which I consider to have survived the institution and that the way it was laid down has become obsolete, and that this institution must be accompanied by the contemporary assets of European law and the intensities offered by such a bill, i.e. with the intensities of the change and acquisition of our judicial system. So I would ask the government's representatives to give a brief explanation, is this just an necessity, that a new bill would not come contrary to what already exists as legislation and practice, and I would ask for an answer – will there be any change in the perspective of what I've been talking about, because I believe that such changes would be in function and in the service of what we have before us, which is the Bill on the Judicial Academy? Finally, I would add that, as an authorised representative of the LDP, I will not act on the established clichés of representatives of opposition parliamentary parties, i.e. – let us criticise everything the Government proposes and take advantage of all the time available for discussion, i.e. for exposés. I said what I thought was important, I asked questions that I think are essential and, eventually, in the final word, I took advantage of part of the time left for our MP group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28831	The word has the People's MP Djordje Milicevic, the SPS MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28832	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are before us six legislative proposals concerning the area of justice. First of all, I would like to say that the MP club SPS - JS will support the proposed law on the Judicial Academy, because, by supporting this law, we want to support the objective of adopting this legislative proposal, which is to ensure professional, independent, impartial and effective performance of the judicial and prosecutorial functions and professional and the conduct of the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff, as listed in Article 2 of this legislative proposal among other things. Of course we want to believe that, after the adoption of this legislative proposal, it will be bypassed and left aside any possibility, or possible possibility of political pressure, political bias in selecting the holders of judicial functions. This legislative proposal provides for clear normative frameworks governing training for judges and prosecutors, which is, among other things, foreseen by new laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted in December 2008 and, in order to say, the creation of effective, impartial and modern justice. On the other hand, this legislative proposal improves and clearly formulates criteria for the selection and promotion of judges, i.e. simply, after adoption of this legislative proposal, it will be very clear who can and under what conditions, under which criteria to be elected judge or prosecutor, without any influence and pressure on the choice itself. In fact, this legislative proposal defines the frameworks for training, aimed at forming objective, realistic and measurable criteria when it comes to choice and progress. The Academy, as we could hear, is opening a competition for admission to the initial training program and formulating the general conditions for registration. A test for enrolment at the Academy, which includes a practical, theoretical and personality test, is foreseen. The Commission shall establish the ranking list according to the results of all three parts of the examination. The academy lasts 24 months and the final score is the sum of each part of the training and evaluation from the final exam. The legislative proposal also provides for users of initial training to establish a working relationship at the Academy during the duration of training and have the right to pay, as far as I can see, at 70% of the basic salary of the judges of the basic court. It's precisely formulated by a member of the 40th legislative proposal. As regards the number of users of initial training for judges of criminal and basic court, i.e. as deputy public prosecutor, it is determined by the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, in particular, by the objective needs of the judiciary, which is of paramount importance. What should also be pointed out, which is defined by Article 40 of the proposed legislative solution, is that the High Council of the Court, i.e. the State Major Prosecutors, is obliged to propose, when proposing candidates for the selection of judges of the criminal or basic court, i.e. the Deputy Prosecutor General, a candidate who completed his initial training at the Academy, and according to the success achieved in that training. If there are no candidates who have completed their initial training among the candidates reported, the High Council of the Court of Justice, i.e. the State Major Prosecutors, may propose a candidate who meets the general conditions for the election. When it comes to this legislative proposal, I would also like to say that the justice reform strategy foresees that the judicial centre is transformed into a judicial training institution and that the initial and permanent training of judges, public prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial assistants and trainees, as well as training of employees in the judicial and prosecutorial administration, is fully arranged. When it comes to the very authorities of the Academy and the competences, it is envisaged – board of directors, directors and programme councils. The law, as is clear, enters into force on 1 December 2009. After that, he will be appointed acting director, who should prepare everything necessary from the conditions for the start of the Academy's work and the transformation of the Justice Centre. Otherwise, the law is scheduled to apply from 1 January 2010. The Academy's board of directors consists of three representatives appointed by the High Council of the Judiciary, one of whom appointed on a proposal from the Association of Judges, three representatives appointed State Major Prosecutors, one, on a proposal from the Association of Public Prosecutors, the government. If we are talking about the very competences of the Management Board, such as, among other things, in the opening presentation, the most important is the adoption of the training programme. Essentially looking, bearing in mind a set of seven judicial laws adopted at the end of last year, i.e. in December 2008, after the adoption of the Law on the Judicial Academy, we want to believe that we will round up one continent when it comes to reforming the Serbian judiciary. Since I have already pointed out at the outset that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support the proposed law on the Judicial Academy, it is therefore quite logical that in the voting day we will support amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutors, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. What is being achieved by the proposed changes has already been said. The legal basis is created, the possibility that the judge, the public prosecutor, or the deputy prosecutor, may be members of the judicial academy management body, given that it is an institution responsible for training in the judiciary, and, on the other hand, bearing in mind the knowledge acquired by practice, which is certainly owned by both the judge and the public prosecutor, that is, the deputy public prosecutor. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, following the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was adopted in December 2008, a new organisation has been established, and jurisdiction between basic and senior courts has been shared for the conduct of the criminal proceedings in the first degree. With this legal proposal, the list of crimes for which a senior court judges add certain forms of criminal acts that have so far been the jurisdiction of the primary court, which are being set aside in their own seriousness. As for the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is to say, the decision on the appeal under the shortened procedure, the proposal is to have the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal instead of the Court of Justice. Essentially speaking, this is about legitimately proposed solutions, in order to be effective, as stated in the explanation, bearing in mind the new law on the regulation of courts, which was adopted in December 2008. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, the applicable law should be in line with the Criminal Code of Serbia, the public prosecutor's laws, the arrangement of courts and seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. What is proposed applies to the proceedings against war crimes indictees, serious violations of international humanitarian law, as well as to aid perpetrators. In a few lines, I'm going to say which papers are introduced with proposed amendments and additions to the law. Circumstances are specified in which someone may have a given witness to a co-worker in war crimes proceedings. Provisions for the conclusion of a plea agreement have been specified, regardless of the threatened prison sentence. It is possible for the media to record and broadcast court proceedings publicly, in accordance with the proposed Article 16a. this legal proposal. The time spent in the detention of The Hague tribunal will not be included in the duration of the detention procedure before the domestic court, but will be included in the sentence that the court will impose. In line with the new organisation of courts, war crimes cases have been specified to be in the jurisdiction of the High Court and the Court of Appeal and the provisions concerning the election of prosecutors and deputies have been defined. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support and the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat high-tech crime, because, fundamentally speaking, this is about harmonising that law, first of all, with the laws on the public prosecutor's office, on the arrangement of courts, on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28833	The word is issued by MP Miroslav Petkovic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28834	Madam Chairman, Ms Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the High Council of the judiciary was adopted in December 2008 and, after today's vote, the fact is that it has not yet been elected in full. Namely, the candidate of the Law School, Mr. Tomic, is not elected today. However, the DS has today stepped down Mr. Miroslav Bojic's choice for State Major Prosecutors, so we are in a position to fire before re-election of judges without the full composition of the Supreme Chamber. According to the rules in force and according to what you predicted, a re-election of judges should be carried out in December. This means that the number of judges and criteria for their election has been set by the incomplete High Council of the judiciary. I remind you, it's almost 2,500 judges, that we ignore the fact that over 600 of them will be out of a job. As of New Year's Eve, a new system, a new network of courts, needs to be functioning by appeals courts, and since the New Year's, the Supreme Casation Court should also function, but I'd like to know from what new year. In February, we heard from the Justice Department that all of this would come into effect and start working from January 1, 2009, and then you've made it all a year. I'm really worried and I'm not sure our judicial system will be able to work fully from 1 January 2010, we warned you about that. I also remind you this time how much the DSS Parliamentary Group has affected the revision of the Visa Council Act and that some solutions, which we thought were good, and which you accepted, should be incorporated into that law. Meanwhile, the number of cases has increased. The presidents of the courts asked for more judges. There have been many problems in the functioning of individual courts. We've received a reduction in the number of courts and complete uncertainty as to whether this system will function. To be clear, it's our desire for the system to work. We are not looking forward to this not being able to work since January 1st, but the facts suggest that it will. We believe that the commitment to the rule of law cannot be just a political phrase, but a constitutional and legal obligation that we should all adhere to, and you as a minister, and we as the MPs, and, of course, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the dependence of the judiciary on the government, on politics, on people who are subject to both corruption and crime, and we have had the opportunity to make sure that this is happening, too, by liberating judgments to those who have harshly violated the law, that led to a desperate situation in our judiciary. I think it is a devastating fact that only 5% of Serbian citizens believe in the Serbian judiciary. Thousands and thousands of out-of-date cases, over a thousand cases, criminal proceedings, that last for more than ten years. The police have done their job well in the past few years, but I believe that those people who made decisions on behalf of the people have not done their job properly and there should be some changes. If more than 90% of the convictions and prison sentences imposed on drug dealers are below the legal minimum, or at the limit of the legal minimum, if more than 80% of the sentence of corruption at the border, or within the legal minimum, I think we really have a big and serious problem. What we are discussing today is a set of amendments to six laws, of which, five amendments with amendments and additions, which is about 42 members within these five laws, together with transitional and final provisions, and I am sure that tomorrow the President of the Assembly will come out and say – we have adopted five more new laws. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts has five members and we agree with some of the laws that we adopted either in May of this year, or at the end of 2008. The draft law on judges has only one member, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office has only four members, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure is a little more extensive, 21 members, and the bill on the jurisdiction of state bodies to combat high-tech crime has one new member and seven words are changed in that law. It is clear that it complies with the laws already passed, but it is sad when someone brings together at the end of the year that this congregation has worked hard and has passed over 300 laws. What is very important is the new draft law on the Judicial Academy, and that is the strategy for judicial reform. We believe this law should be passed, but not in this form. That is why, through the amendment, we have tried to correct this law, extremely well-intentioned and professionally responded, and you will see it in the amendments that we have submitted. We believe that if you accept them, they will indeed bring about some improvements. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in detail, but just to suggest in this principle debate, that you have time to consider, you and your associates, from the Justice Committee, to the very statement of certain matters. We believe that, first of all, in article 19, the question arises why a mentor could not be one of the lawyers. We believe that representatives of the law profession have both expertise and experience in order to be able to do this job in full quality. Don't think of a lawyer only when it's necessary to make certain suggestions when you're trying a shortcut through the Attorney's Chamber Management Board, not the Assembly of the Bar Association, to make a proposal for the High Council of Justice. We believe that there are capable and professional people who can do this job in a good way. On Article 28, we also submitted the amendment and responded to the intended solution, because the legal exam passed so far in our judicial system was, practically, a crown; so, after the traineeship was carried out, people passed the judicial exam, and after that, we were also doing court cases, elected judges or going to the bar. Now, after two years of traineeship, you're taking a blood work to pass a judicial exam, which lasts between four and six months, and you're taking an entrance exam for the Judiciary Academy to train for another 22 months! Then let's cancel the bar exam, or we'll cancel the entrance exam for the Academy. Look at this solution, the DSS MPs think it's too long a period, that people should go through certain training, they should be educated, but these two solutions, parallelly, should not exist. Also, as for Article 49, on the admission exam for trainees, which refers to a special training programme for judges and prosecutors and trainees, we believe that it is not the matter of this law and that this norm should have been found either in the Law on Judges or in the Law on Public Prosecutors; I do not know how it was found here, it was probably something in the previous period, but there is the possibility that it could be intervened. Article 61 We think it's too short a deadline for the Judicial Academy to start working. In fact, this law is due to enter into force on December 1st, and in 15 days, an acting director of the Academy should be elected. I totally understand, since the new system is due to come into life from January 1st, but I don't think it's possible for this to work. After all, next year, practically, by November 2010, the Judicial Academy is due to perform its full function. We find it unrealistic to expect this job to be done properly in a good way in the next month. Also, it explains that financial resources are not needed I am afraid that there are not sufficient resources for the functioning of this body, because, by transforming the Judicial Centre, I do not know how much resources they have left at their disposal, given that this assembly is not going to discuss budget rebalancing, but that Mrs Dragutinovic is going to pack, rebalancing along with the new budget, into one pile, and that this will be adopted in the National Assembly in return, as has happened so far. I think it's going to help people we want to help, who we want to allow to work normally, and that future judges and prosecutors are really going to be educated and perfected at the Judicial Academy, create a huge problem, because of some unrealistic estimates, and maybe the political points that someone is trying to collect, and I don't think this law is the right place to do that. Mrs Malovic, to be clear, we do not want Serbia to be a country of lawlessness, legal uncertainty and obedience. We're afraid this whole process is continuing, so I don't get it. I am absolutely certain that the judge cannot and must not speak of the case on which he judges, but, honor of exceptions, the fact is that judges are not allowed to speak at all about the situation in the Serbian judiciary because of all this. That is why we believe that the key thing for a judge is his human dignity, his dignity and his expertise, and when you allow some other influences and you put people in a position to crush it, then these people cannot judge and decide in a correct and legal manner either on your right or on my right, or on the right of any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So please look at the DSS amendments. If you have a good will and understanding, which you have shown so far, adopt it, because it is our desire for the Judicial Academy to really live up to the justice reform strategy, as we have predicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28835	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know what practice it is when the draft laws in the area of justice are explained. With all due respect, Ms. Malovic, to you as a lady, I cannot understand that you understand your role as a minister as a mere reader of other people's text. All MPs in this congregation are able to read the explanation of any bill that comes into the procedure of the National Assembly. We don't expect you to read, we can do it ourselves, but to convince us that what the bill says really represents the best possible solution in the given area. But you don't. You settle for it, whenever you come to the National Assembly, yes, almost by looking up, read something that someone else wrote. I don't think it's a good practice and it's falling away from some good parliamentary tradition. If at least what it says in the explanation of the Bill on the Judicial Academy, which you most spoke of, is true, and it wouldn't be such a problem, but it's not true. Look, Mrs. Malovic, first of all, it is a completely wrongly cited constitutional basis for the adoption of law on the Judicial Academy. It says – the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the judicial academy is contained in the provisions of Articles 97 and 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the freedoms and rights of citizens, proceedings before courts and other state bodies, as well as other relations of interest to the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution. Explain to me what the work of the Judicial Academy has to do with the exercise and protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, and in particular what does it have to do with the proceedings before courts and other state bodies? It doesn't matter. The Judicial Academy is not a court, the Judicial Academy is not a prosecutor's office, the Judicial Academy is neither an authority of the administration and has no grounds to appeal to Article 97 as a reason for the law on the Judicial Academy. Furthermore, Mrs Malovic, you mentioned a syntagm often used by the ruling coalition, which is that judicial laws are often to be passed, changed, harmonised with European standards, in order to ensure the right to a fair trial and to be tried within a reasonable time. Mrs. Malovic, you are the minister of justice for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for those who support this government, and for those who do not support it. Among other things, I would like to remind you that at this very moment, the right is being violated both for a fair trial and for a reasonable trial within a reasonable period of time by a citizen of the Republic of Serbia whose minister of justice you are, and this is the case of SRS President Vojislav Seselj, who has been tried in The Hague tribunal since 2003, and still has no idea when the trial will end, although it is already the end of October 2009. It would be good for you, as minister of justice, or another state body to raise your voice against the fact that one citizen of the Republic of Serbia is violating this right to a fair trial and to a reasonable trial. We have reason to suspect that the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable period of time will also be denied by Dr Radovan Karadzic. It would be good for you to be interested in that subject as well. It is not worth being abstractally advocated for the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable period of time without taking care of living people, on whose examples the fundamental legal principle is drastically trampled. Mrs. Malovic, another remark. You're saying there's a law to be passed on to the Judicial Academy because it's an international legal standard. In the light of the Bill's proposal, you have listed some international documents that allegedly require us to pass a law on the Judicial Academy. See from which year these documents date – Basic principles concerning the independence of the judiciary, adopted by the UN 1985, Recommendation of the Council of Europe, not to read all, the European Charter of Judges' Status, European Declaration No. 1 Advisory Council of European Judges and Declaration No. 4 The Advisory Council of European Judges on Initial and Permanent Training. These are all documents from 2001 and 2003. The SRS parliamentary group wants to know how it is possible that this now suddenly becomes an international standard, and it was not the standard of 2001 when you joined the first called Serbian judiciary reform? How come it wasn't the 2008 standard when you also passed a set of judicial laws, but suddenly became a judicial standard at the end of 2009. One more thing, we really can't understand how you imagine legal certainty in a country where, literally, every year, several amendments to the laws governing judicial and other legal proceedings, the court's position, judges, public prosecutors, etc. No, Mrs. Malovic, no student who studies at any law school in Serbia who understands what the RS justice system looks like. Imagine that the Ministry Act, which applies among other things to your ministry, is passed several times over the year. How would you feel as a state official? I'm sure you wouldn't be comfortable. Imagine how a judge is feeling about what kind of newspaper some smart-ass is going to come up with in some new bill of law. You're not consistent at all. Whenever you propose some law in the field of justice, you say – this is now complete, in line with European standards, there are no faults, there are no shortcomings, this is reform law, etc. It doesn't take a few months, you're accessing changes and supplements. Is it binding on you what you said six months ago, that it's finally over with judicial reform, that the laws are perfect, that they're effective, that they've all agreed to these bill proposals, and domestic and international factors, and that now it's just staying that these laws are being implemented? Now that the time has come for the laws to be applied, you are proposing amendments to the law on the regulation of courts, on judges, on public prosecutors, etc. And bring as a newspaper into our legal system some judicial academy. I was really trying, Mrs. Malovic, to figure out what you were going to say with this bill, but believe me, I didn't make it. First of all, it's incomprehensible for me to start an institution without even stating what its activity is. Therefore, in Article 1, you state the subject matter of the law, in Article 2 – the aim of establishing the Academy, in Article 3 – the status of the Academy, etc. When you start an institution, I guess it's the primary thing to define what that institution does. There's no such thing in this bill. You say, "The aim of the establishment of the Academy is to provide", watch the wording, "professionally, independently, impartially and efficiently perform the judicial and prosecutorial functions and professionally and efficiently carry out the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff". Does this mean that if this assembly does not adopt the bill, Serbia will not have a professional, independent, impartial and effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions, because it says here that the Judicial Academy is the one who should provide it? So, if there's no Justice Academy, there's no such thing as what you're saying? How is that possible? I guess quality laws in the field of justice provide professionality, independence, impartiality and efficiency in performing judicial and prosecutorial functions, not some judicial academy. I would understand that you said – The Judicial Academy contributes, but that it itself provides, which means that our judicial system is in a major crisis. Since we still don't have a judicial academy in place, we don't have a professional, independent, or impartial, or an effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions, and we will have if you adopt this bill. In Article 3, you say that the provisions of the laws governing public services will apply to the Judicial Academy. From the very name, Mrs. Malovic, when an institution is called – the academy, I guess, is an educational institution, I guess, it educates someone, I guess, contributes to some knowledge, in this case, legal knowledge. How is it possible for a judicial academy not to apply the law, let's say, on higher education, and here you mention many institutions that exist in the system of higher education, evaluation, commissions, mentors, exams, etc.? Now you have all these institutes, but the Public Service Act applies. So, the same laws applicable to municipal enterprises, centres for social work, etc. will apply to the Judicial Academy. I'd love to see how that judicial academy works. Furthermore, in article 6, you say – the authorities of the Academy are the Management Board, Director and Programme Council. The Judicial Academy, Mrs. Malovic, you wrote that in the bill, will primarily operate with funds from the RS budget, and not with small funds. There are serious indications that the Judicial Academy is formed only to house someone in it, because, you will admit, it is easier to teach at the Judicial Academy than to meet the norm in a court of law. Is that right? I don't understand where you're being given the Supervisory Board. Who's going to control how these budgets are spent at the Judicial Academy? You've predicted salaries for lecturers and mentors, you've predicted to use initial training, to receive employment at the Judicial Academy, to make a profit, and who's going to control all this? No one will, and there may be numerous abuses. In Article 8, you say -- the chairman of the Management Board, among other things, presents the Academy and submits an annual report on the work of the Academy to the High Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors and Government. First of all, I don't understand the difference between the presentation of the Academy, which is to be carried out by the chairman of the Management Board and the representation of the Academy, which is to be realized by the director. I guess in our legal system, it's standard for one who represents at the same time. No, you have the director representing, and the chairman of the board of directors represents. I'd like you to explain to me what the difference is and how you think in practice you can separate these two functions. Next, where is your grandfather's National Assembly in this annual report? The National Assembly, Mrs Malovic, established the Judicial Academy and the National Assembly, through budgets, provides funding for the Judicial Academy, but does not submit an annual report to the National Assembly. What's the National Assembly got to do with what's going on at the Justice Academy? There's the VSS in the back of the line, there's the state's bigger prosecutors in the back of the system, and there's the government, and there's the story ending. The National Assembly, a place where all social problems are discussed publicly, in front of the eyes of all Serbia, has nothing to ask about how the Judicial Academy works. Article 9, as elected by the Director of the Academy by the Management Board, says – The Management Board shall elect and resolve the Director of the Academy. Well, cleaning lady, Mrs. Malovic, in the municipality you can't accept without having to call a competition, and you will be the director of the Justice Academy to choose without a competition. By what criteria, how is it possible? You said, when you passed the Law on civil servants, that there was no more politicization, no more state administration, no more justice, but everyone at the competition, so whoever meets the conditions, will be appointed. The director of the Judicial Academy will now be appointed, or appointed past the competition. Imagine all the abuses that are possible in practice. Here's how the board of directors works, how you figured it out. It is said – The Management Board shall hold two sessions a year. Watch out, two sessions a year, and look at the responsibilities of the Management Board in Article 9, almost one entire page, or performs a whole series of important tasks. Practically, according to your concept, the Management Board is the most important authority in the Judicial Academy. How many times does he meet? At least twice a year. How do you think the Management Board responds to its tasks if it meets at least twice a year? The director of the Academy is, in your opinion, Mrs. Malovic, the executive body of the Academy. How can you apply the term "executive" to an entity that actually performs management functions in an institution? Since when was the director anywhere executive? I guess it's a business organ. I guess it's a management body. The government is an executive body. The director can't be an executive, because then it means - if you have an executive body, you have to have a legislative authority at the Judicial Academy, and a judicial authority, and you don't have one. So you used completely inadequate terminology. Article 14 states that the Director represents the Academy. Now we are going back to that problem again – that the chairman of the Management Board represents the Academy and that the director represents it. Explain to me, Mrs Malovic, to me and the other MPs, what is the difference between representation and representation? How do you think, in practice, if you apply this law, you can separate those two functions? Then will the chairman of the Management Board tell the Director – you only represent the Academy, and I represent it? The director will tell the chairman of the Management Board – no, I represent the Academy, and you only represent it. I guess it's a fundamental principle in our legal system, and in all the legal systems that whoever represents, it represents, and vice versa. As far as I know, you're the first to separate the representation function from the representation function. I'd like to say something, Mrs. Malovic, about a nonsensus. First mentors and lecturers at this judicial academy of yours will be people who don't have a completed judicial academy. Now imagine at some law school a regular professor being someone who hasn't even finished law school. Is that possible? It's not possible, and this is where it'll be possible. It'll be possible for someone else to teach, and I didn't finish any judicial academy. Now there's one more question to ask. I am asking this question not so much because of the MPs, but because of the judges, the deputy public prosecutors, and, in general, because of all the people who are studying at any law school in the Republic of Serbia. If you're reading this bill, it turns out it's not enough to graduate from law school. It's not even enough if you're in law school, you're a master's degree or a Ph.D. Not even enough if you passed a judicial exam. Now you have to finish some kind of judicial academy. Be careful what a nonsensent is and what a degradation of our legal higher education! Now you're going to force people who have finished law school, who passed a judicial exam and who probably have a certain number of years of work experience, to take an entrance exam for the Judicial Academy. Chuck says you predicted some sort of personality test. What does that mean? This means that you question the fundamental intelligence of people who are due to be judges and public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia tomorrow. To what extent you humiliate judges and public prosecutors! Then why law schools? Then why post-graduate studies? What's the law on higher education, what's the legal exam, if someone still has to pass an entrance exam for the Judicial Academy? Who's gonna question him there? Someone who didn't finish law school. It's a vicious circle of complete nonsense. In Article 23, you say what is the aim of training judges and prosecutors – training judges and prosecutors is organized acquisition, number one is acquisition, then perfecting practical and theoretical knowledge. If someone, Mrs. Malovic, only at the Judicial Academy should gain practical and theoretical knowledge, it is difficult for us, the difficult justice system of the Republic of Serbia, to judge these judges. I guess there's both practical and theoretical knowledge at law school. Eventually, some knowledge can be renewed at that judicial academy. For example, you can put an accent on a practical part of legal knowledge, but only at the Academy is knowledge – that means that we no longer have a law school in the Republic of Serbia. That means our system of high-level legal education is in total crisis. In Article 28, you provided that – in order for someone to be admitted to initial training, they would have to have a legal exam, to meet the general conditions for working in state authorities and to have a accepted initial training exam. So it's not enough for you to pass a judicial exam. You know, Mrs. Malovic, how delicate and complex and how many real legal cases there are. Someone has been struggling to finish, two or three years, a traineeship practice in court, in the prosecution, or in another institution, to pass a judicial exam, and that's not enough right now – now you have to take a preliminary exam. That would mean someone's finishing any college now, and then they're taking an entrance exam to get him into primary school. Where's that logic? How is it assessed on the entrance exam? The oral and written parts are evaluated from one to 10. Mrs Malovic, in the education system of the Republic of Serbia, you do not have such a range of grades. Where is one to ten estimated? Is it graded in elementary schools? No, I don't. Whether they are graded in high schools – no. Is it graded in colleges? No, I don't. Where is the estimate and where is that range from one to ten? Imagine what abuses in practice can occur during such a range of evaluations?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28837	Twenty minutes. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, authorised representative of the Group of MPs, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28838	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this draft law on the Judicial Academy, which represents mild plagiarism, almost from word to word, the Macedonian law of 2006, is one of the worse legislative proposals and will not be able to regulate many problems in this area, nor contribute to the goal set by the Proposer himself in Article 22 of this proposal, i.e. to ensure professional, independent, impartial, effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions and professional and effective conduct of judicial and prosecutorial staff. The reason is that the law is not based on the example of countries that have a regulated state of justice and high-quality trained holders of judicial functions and judicial and prosecutorial staff, but rather on the model of Macedonian law, a country law which, by the way, cannot be praised by the state of justice. Which is why the legislator seemed to have made this very Macedonian law the best solution, not a country that has passed such a law much earlier and corrected a number of shortcomings that occur when the law is applied in practice, remains unclear. Even the regulations governing the area in the former SFRY republics are better than the Macedonian version, for the reason they were brought before, had several amendments and additions and are comprehensive, regulate and training for lawyers, legal interns. It remains unclear why the proposer did not apply these regulations when drawing up the proposal. Maybe because it's a good part of these regulations in the form of sublegal acts. All in all, it could and should have been copied some happier solution in this area, when it is already choking on every good idea that penetrates this society and tries to implement a good attitude, with the speciality of this body and this people, and the Priory is taken as well as anything that comes beyond the borders of this country. This area must be approached with great care and take into account the large number of legal and sublegislative acts that regulate it, agree and lay down rules on the basis of which to be created tomorrow, above all, high-quality lawyers, in the form of future judges, prosecutors and lawyers. In addition to having a number of shortcomings and failures in its provisions, from its ideas and objectives to ensure professional, independent, impartial and effective performance of judicial and prosecutorial functions, it further complicates, red tape the existing situation and brings new high costs to Serbian citizens, and ultimately devises the judicial academy itself. The lack of the bill also relates to the fact that it had to and could regulate and harmonise the entire legislation relating to the judiciary, and one regulation was obtained which does not comply with many laws in this area, the Law on Judges, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the conduct of judicial examinations. As far as the failure is concerned, there is no regulated question regarding training lawyers of interns, judge and prosecutorial assistants at all. Don't say anything about training candidates for judges and deputy prosecutors. It is very important to note the failure of the legislator to specifically prescribe training for judges, deputy judges and prosecutors. Namely, it is necessary to single out an area that will deal with training candidates for judges and deputy prosecutors, as the proposaler has constraintly regulated the area. Although in the part of the law under no. III – The training of judges and prosecutors, he talks about, remains unclear whether it is only training for judges and prosecutors or for initial training can be applied for example. Lawyers, lawyers with a legal exam, but as the proposer himself wrote the criteria in Article 28, because, under Article 28 of this proposal, it is about the initial training of candidates for judges and prosecutors, not about training for judges and prosecutors. Given all this, it is necessary to make a clear distinction in this law between the training of judges and prosecutors and the training of judges and prosecutors themselves. As regards the appointment of members in this bill, it is necessary to start from the very beginning, so that, after the opening provisions and the provisions on the effectiveness of the organisation of the Judiciary Academy, provisions should be put in place on training of trainees, then assistants, then candidates, then judges and prosecutors. Given that the purpose of the law to lead to an impartial election of judges and prosecutors, the proposer himself, in Article 40, devises this law, so that, above all, in a vague way, determines the rights and obligations of the candidates, gives the High Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors to propose candidates who have not completed initial training. First of all, the law should deal with trainees who need to pass a judicial exam, because at this very moment training begins for the future judge, prosecutor, lawyer, so that, with serious and sincere reform of the judiciary, it can be started from the beginning, in order to get as high as possible when future holders of judicial functions. This law must lay down clear provisions on trainees and regulate this area in more detail, comply with the law on judicial examinations. As rules on judicial examinations, it is necessary to determine how many trainees are required to attend the Judicial Academy in order to be able to pass a judicial examination and to prescribe as clear as possible training programmes for trainees. This law should also allow legal interns to be trained at the Judicial Academy, because lawyering is a specific part of the judicial system and the state should be more heard about these professions. As this law should contribute to a better judiciary, it should also include provisions relating to training and training of lawyers, attorneys as acts of public interest, which is a specific and necessary part of the judicial system. This problem can be accessed with two aspects. The first is – to allow both initial and permanent training of lawyers at the judicial academy, and to allow lawyers, through the Bar Association, to participate in the work of the Judicial Academy as mentors and lecturers, but also in representative bodies, or to allow them to establish a legal academy, which is a worse solution. The Proposer in Article 40 regulates the rights and obligations of users of initial training and calls into question this legislative proposal. Because, given this member, the question arises – what is the meaning of the Judicial Academy? The fact that someone has received confidence in completed training can only be a condition for the user of this training to become a candidate for a judge, or prosecutor, and must comply with the law that prescribes general conditions for judges, or prosecutors. They are completely unclear in Section 8 and 9 of this article, which is said to be – the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Major Prosecutors, is obliged to propose a candidate who completed his initial training at the Academy and according to the success of initial training. What about the High Council of the Judiciary and the High Prosecutors? He doesn't propose a candidate who finishes initial training. This position should be regulated so that it is possible to propose only a candidate who has completed initial training, and according to the success achieved in initial training, so that there is no abuse by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and, in the end, so that the whole legal proposal on the Judicial Academy is not derailed. "If there are no candidates who have completed their initial training among the candidates, the High Council of the Judiciary, or the State Major Prosecutors, can propose a candidate who meets the general conditions for the election. '"This attitude should be cast out, because it remains unclear what training will be left if it is not mandatory when electing a judge and prosecutor? Because if we're changing the existing system and we're looking for a better solution, if we believe that better solution, we have to set it up as the only one, and we don't allow an alternative, and that's how we figure out both the legal proposal and the Judicial Academy. Furthermore, it is very vague and attitude 7, which says, "After the initial training, the candidate is required to compete... ". This attitude must be precise and better elaborated, because it remains unclear what a sanction is if he does not carry out his duty there. If there are no sanctions, is it even necessary to cite this member? After all, why would someone go a very difficult, thorny way to the judge and the prosecutor without ultimately competing for that place? This legislative proposal does not present a newspaper on the choice of judges or deputies. The High Council of Judges and the State Greater Prosecutors are still only proposing, and the Assembly is selecting, which opens up space for many political abuses, thus obtaining images that the Proposer had no intention of radically changing this area and affecting the choice of judges and prosecutors by expertise, but, by definition, by the cosmetic embellishment of this area, which does not achieve an alternative target, which is the choice of judges and prosecutors exclusively by expertise. It is also a vague attitude of 11, which says it will take into account the fact that no one, not three years after the initial training was completed, was elected judge or prosecutor. It remains unclear whether what awaits a long advantage or a flaw, is that his training goes out of date. It must be said specifically that a candidate who waits three years has an advantage over others, and vice versa. Article 1 is not sufficiently precise. The subtitle says – The subject of the law, so it must be more precise and must contain everything most important that this law speaks of, or regulates. Article 1 reads - this law establishes the Judicial Academy and regulates its status, activity, governance and funding bodies, as well as initial and permanent training of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, training of judicial and prosecutorial assistants and trainees and training of judicial and prosecutorial staff. The word "funding" should read: "training of judicial and prosecutorial interns and assistants, then candidates, and judges and public prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial staff". Speaking of regulating the training of assistants and staff, that training needs to be said in the law itself. It should be said that the goal of the Academy is to organise and implement more professional training for judges and prosecutors, as well as training for judges and prosecutors. Article 43 speaks of continuous training, which may be voluntary and compulsory, and states, among other things, that it is mandatory for judges and prosecutors who are first elected to the post without attending initial training. Articles 44 and 45 continue to talk about general and special ongoing training, and in particular the ongoing training required for judges and prosecutors who are first elected to the post is being elaborated. It should be made clear that, in the context of specific training, mandatory training is being developed for judges and prosecutors who are first elected to the post and have not completed initial training. As regards the trainees' entrance exam, in Article 49, it is very discussionable how these candidates will be tested, how they will be taken into account that candidates cannot be checked in professional knowledge if they start working relationship as trainees. If we want to ensure professional, independent, efficient, impartial performance of the judicial and prosecutorial functions and professional and efficient conduct of the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff, it is necessary to arrange this area much more seriously, with more knowledge and energy, comparative practices and a broader view, so that we get a comprehensively better law than the one offered to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28839	The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28840	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have been thinking about whether I should discuss this at all, since I'm not a lawyer, but listening to what's going on in the judiciary and following these laws and the appearances of certain people from the judiciary, I've decided to say a few words about something that is not my profession, because you in the judiciary have so complicated it, dazzled and dazzled that you don't even know how to get out of this wagon. We keep making laws, we talk about laws all the time. We keep saying – the EU imposes, we approach Europe, we make new laws, etc., and there are more problems in Serbia. There are more and more unresolved disputes, more and more very serious crimes for which no one, for a large number of them, is responding. Now we're going out with a package of laws that's been talked about a lot, it's announced a lot, it's expected a lot, but I don't expect anything more important, considering that all this, which is also the discussion of my predecessors, some exposure, showed, is going to be done again by some chain wheel, that nothing serious is going to happen in the judiciary, as has not happened in previous years. I expected that in the judiciary, which is the foundation of a single state, the foundation of a really healthy foundation. We cannot come, Madam Minister, to Parliament and say – this is the EU's position, these are the laws that bring us closer to the EU. Personally, I believe that the judiciary in the EU is nothing. It now shows the law, it shows their laws, the prosecution and the court that are in The Hague. If that's your leadership in the judiciary, it's hard on us. We've heard here from my predecessors that we've been having disputes for six or seven years. People are lying there, they're not being tried. The dispute is interrupted when someone turns and says, "Stop it and continue when someone has ordered it." Those who have caused misery and great problems, let us take the example of Kosovo, Haradinaj, Ceku, many, have been cleared of the charges. Why? Because someone was interested in getting them released; they turned the phone number and said. Some of us here, where there were indications of being accused, have become like bugs, can't write and no one touches them, and others are responsible for ten times less. Some must not touch, for they have become obedient, and all those who have been worthy, who have come forth justified to defend themselves, they have been killed and sentenced to fat slaves, as our people say. That's a fact. The Karadzic trial is now being speeded up. Why? You don't give a man a chance to prepare for defense. How in Serbia can we expect something better when for years in our judiciary people who sit at the top of government and deal with law have their offices, and well-developed, who do excellent work? We can't say now that the judiciary is impartial if your best friend sits next to you, for example, in the ministry, and his best friend has a chain of law offices. Everyone gets kidnapped, they say – go, go, go, go, go, it's all gonna be settled, it's gonna be over, it's gonna stop. You saw that dispute in Sartide, it lasted for years, and in the end it all became obsolete. No paperwork, no paper, no contract, no nothing. It's all gone from the government, and it's very bad. Now we expect something radical to happen, of course, in the judiciary. But I hope it happens to one of these organizations as it is. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, don't just applaud. You hear the EU being mentioned and applauding immediately. I am for the European Union. I repeat, New Serbia is for the EU. We fought for change and we were at the head of this fight for change, but let's not like a sword in a well, let's first see what's going on, how and what's expected of us. You're here discussing a series of problems that were, and we're going to solve them all now with this set of laws. And after all this, I'm afraid something's gonna happen that we can't fight, not to build a party judiciary. I'm very afraid of that. A good sign that there will be a party judiciary and that they will get rid of the honest, good and real judges, who are doing their job responsiblely, it is this judicial academy. Imagine now passing a judicial exam. How can an honest and good judge not be receptive now? It can't be accepted, because you see who will be members of the Management Board, that the government appoints over 30%. And, what is this way, what were we talking about, that a man who's a doctor of science, a master, who's graduated from postgraduate studies, who has so much work experience, now has to take some entrance exams, sit with someone and tell them -- I'll give you a green light, or I won't? Or one of the politicians will give a list – let these go, there is no problem. I doubt that, taught by great experience, and I don't think that's good. So we have a series of disputes that haven't been settled in years. Now you're going into one action - the fight against violence. There's so much to push and talk about, and some thugs I've known for years have never answered anything in court disputes. They've got good money, moms and dads, they find good lawyers, and it's always been the end of a liberating verdict or some little punishment, unless that dispute ends with a murder in the end. The other day, you saw it in Chuck's shooting, etc. What's going on? Can't a young man be stopped in a court dispute, convicted? It's better than pushing it to the end, until it's overworked, overslept, and until there's a murder, or attempted murder, etc. It's all wrong of the judiciary. Why? The police do their job, do the investigation, bring the man in, everybody knows he's a drug dealer, they finish all the jobs, and he gets home before they take him. He turns his lawyer on the phone, he comes in and finishes everything in a minute. I remember not counting here now, what disputes were when I was a member of the government, when responsible people in the judiciary worked against the government's interest and they spent huge budgets. Why? Because they had great authority to complete trials, which cost the country over 30m euros, through lawyers who were in contact with the judges. They gave it a nice split and everybody made sure, took care of it, and ended it, and the state had to pay huge money out of the budget. That's exactly what I was talking about. A great connection between the government and the judiciary. That's not good, Mrs. Malovic. That's not good. We can't work so that a man who's a minister of justice today, or performs the most functions, becomes a lawyer tomorrow, runs his offices, conducts disputes. His half of the people stayed in the ministry, the judges he named; phones work and it all ends the way it has been going for years. This poor people who will, they will raise him from pay, and they will not be able to get out of this. Therefore, it needs a relationship, it needs protection, it needs political support to end something. It's the same in finance. You can't get a serious loan today if you don't have support from the ruling summit. Imagine going to the bank and having a fantastic project, you're all right, you've jumped everything, you've taken care of everything, and the director calls you and he says in four eyes, it's great, everything's fine, but, brother, if I give you a loan, I'm not here anymore. He turned me around and he told me. I know when the highest politicians turned the phone for some heavy criminals to let go. That's what's happening right now, it's always happened, and it's going to happen. We have to fight it. No academy will bring us any better in the judiciary. In the judiciary, you as a minister, with the party you come from, have to clean up some things around you, explain that there can't be party courts. No one can get a criminal report from today's prime minister because he broke the budget law. Why? There's been an elemental accident, he's broken the budget law and he's got a criminal report. Madam Minister, how do you spend your resources now that you've broken the budget bill to the ceiling? No one's answering anything. Why aren't you doing rebalancing? Is anyone in this government gonna get a criminal report? Is it possible to break the budget so much and move on, push on, take credits, patch up, throw in? We don't have a clue here, we're just hearing about the Morning Programme -- today comes a billion, tomorrow half a billion, three billion, four billion. You're just bombing us with numbers, and we have no idea. After, of course, the ruling coalition, which these poor people will sit there, come, bring them, like this morning, to vote and vote it. All adopted and mutilated. They go home to people so they don't have any problems. Of course, they have to call it all. Is there a basis for a crime of fraud? For example, when someone comes out on TV, a senior state official, and says -- all Serbian citizens will get thousands of euros; get in line and sign in, bring in ID cards, home numbers and finish it all. When it's all over, he says, "Pull the dots, it's not working." He's going home. Is that a classic scam? Is there a bigger scam than to fool five million people who are going to get in line and days to sign up, with a direct transmission, with interviews, with media monitoring, and tomorrow he says – you know what, I was joking?- I'm sorry. What did you believe? There, I played with the people, five million people cheated. That's how he's gonna cheat on apartments. This morning I listen, Secretary of State Homen stands out – he sold one apartment in downtown Belgrade, the whole building, sold all the apartments 10 times, certified everything in court, everything, has a stamp. Everyone's right, and now the poor people are here to disappear. He who is stronger enters the dwelling, and the weaker ones remain in the staircase. So do something. Is it possible for the same people to cheat on those apartments for 10 years, five years, to give them people criminal charges? Some have a hundred criminal charges. No one's responding. All the good lawyers take care of everything, put everything in the drawer, everyone tends, and they still cheat, and they get the media, and they defend themselves, and they explain themselves; well, what difference does it make? We sold ten times the same, and there's no problem. Do you believe now, for example, that many companies held by certain tycoons, who have committed a series of crimes, pay no one anything, cheat on the people, give false documentation, papers, false guarantees, etc. How many people are asking today if I don't count here right now so someone won't be offended?- I'm sorry. One, for example, I know, owes only one part of the trustee 400m euros, and good lawyers always fix it, end it, and nothing to anyone. No one can tell a man – if you're normal, destroy the state, tomorrow someone has to cover it. Not to talk about those who cheat on poor peasants, buy the raspberries, buy the strawberries, buy the cherry, buy the plum, pay nothing. Should the mobsters give us fruit? The biggest scum and scum, drug dealers, who have money to pay for the ransom, they do export, and that's why it's all gone. You know how miserable it is when in the evening trucks, tractor trailers are lined up, people are brought in what they picked up, they're ready, and he comes in all rough, and he's late and he's only around ten o'clock in the evening, and he says, "You know what, at half price." If you don't want to throw it away, if you don't want to. Then everyone, poor thing, where they're gonna, what they're gonna do, they're gonna have to do it. These cheaters do it every year, people sue them, report it, and it all stops; good lawyers finish the job, and nobody gets anything done. Therefore, can courts do their work in a timely manner, in accordance with the law, and is justice the same for all? No one sued me as a minister, and then Gilas already sued me a few times these days. Whatever you say, he sues you, you can't say anything, just applaud and say he's the best, he's a genius. He is the biggest genius in the country, with 11 employees made hundreds of millions of euros in traffic. Well done, genius, you should be holding an academy, like this judicial academy. I would suggest that we build a Gilas Academy, that he train this people how to do business, how to make money. We need to change something, if we can, we need to set something up to do it differently, and that's what the results are. So, please, if you can do something about it, get some people out of the judiciary who have been making trouble for years and sitting there. In particular, I can tell you sometime, if you're interested. Not one judge, the president of the court, is now the judge of a county court, and his lady who lives with him out of wedlock, who has the most respected law firm, to do what they do. All the disputes that come to court, they all go to her. She doesn't even have to show up in court; she sends some kids there just to take the note and say, "Send us to Mike, Žika," and they say, "Thank you very much, everything will be fine, don't worry, just save the money." So, there's something that needs to be done, if you can. So this judicial academy is humiliating for a lawyer. This is the biggest humiliation and degradation of the law school, certain institutions that have existed in the field of education for years. If I were a professor of law school, I'd be so disappointed, I'd feel humiliated if someone sat down tomorrow on some committee and my best student, or told the best judge – you didn't pass the exam. What he, poor man, shall not lay down, and a man shall perish, he shall not judge any more. Therefore, someone has come up with a good idea to do a negative selection in the judiciary, to put similar ones where they should come from, to maybe do some jobs, not professional ones, not quality ones. Imagine someone who finishes college, who finishes grad school, passes a judicial exam, who's done everything, who's the supreme judge, and now needs to go to some checkup, to have someone tell him again – sit down here for a little while, let's see if you're up for it, or you're out in this election. It's a disgrace, it's humiliating, and you shouldn't have let that happen. I expected a lot from you, Madam Minister, I expected someone you may have resented, not you personally, but one of the politicians, to be punished now. But what you're going to do is this isn't some kind of change that's expected to change a lot. I hope this power, this coalition won't last long and we'll have a chance to put the judiciary on its feet. As you started, I expected a lot from you, and I didn't expect you to go out and defend this party, as I would call it, a judicial academy and some other things here that don't lead to good. Do not be a role model to our judge, neither the EU, nor the Hague tribunal, but rather to be a role model for our righteous judge, who for years have tried and shared justice, risked their lives and their health in order to get something to the end, to be a model for honest and fair lawyers, who have put this country on its feet for years and brought it to the status it had, when it was valued and respected, and not for some who are corrupt, who are in Europe, to be our role model. Don't be a role model for Carla del Ponte, so let's say now - you know, our prosecution's gonna be like her. Then we all failed in the package. Therefore, I am personally disappointed and think this is not good for Serbia. How can the Constitution in Serbia be disrespected? How can the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, adopted in this House, be disrespected? As the president of some country, here, today was with Mrs. Djukic, to come to our media and say – I finance the highway and that and you have a traffic development strategy, you have a spatial plan. (President: Time. It's not there, but it doesn't matter what's not there, the man said. Therefore, the law must be put first...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28841	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28842	Thank you. Madam President, the Honorable Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, one of my predecessors spoke about the fact that Serbia's judiciary enjoys extremely little public support, spoke of some five-six percent and cited a dreary statistic of the number of outdated criminal cases in civil matters; I think it cited the length of the proceedings as the biggest problem. That's exactly what the reasons are, and I think the colleagues who have spoken so far, and from opposition MPs' groups, have given one extraordinary argument that such a law should be passed. So our intensities to reform the judicial system, which we started this year by passing a whole series of laws in the field of judicial, judicial and prosecutorial organisations, and our intention will not be rounded up unless we adopt such an important law as the Law on the Judicial Academy. The expertise, training and dignity are the characteristics of a judge, i.e. the holder of a judicial office, therefore, both judges and prosecutors, and their deputies. The skills, as one of the references, to use that term, which must be borne by the holder of a judicial function, are also obtained through training, i.e. training. The aim of this law, ladies and gentlemen, is to normably regulate training for legal holders. Through training, previously acquired knowledge, whether at university or in judicial practice, is perfected. Again, a judge or prosecutor with a constantly improved knowledge, through the various visions he prescribes and norms this law, will surely be more quality in running an object that is assigned to him and, ultimately, the principle of justice and justice, the principle of trial within a reasonable time, will be easier to achieve than to have this law. So it's not so relevant that this law and these solutions that we have ahead of us rely on certain documents, and the OSCE, and the Serbian Government Strategy, and relevant documents of international organisations. It is important here to point out that the continued improvement of judicial institutions is necessary. As with any other profession, both in this and the judges, and prosecutors, and their deputies, but also administrative staff, must be in one constant process of perfecting, gaining new knowledge and applying rights in practice. What is also important to point out is that the status of the Academy, as defined by the bill's proposal, establishes an institutional link between the judicial academy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Justice, but also the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, as bodies that, under the Constitution, are guarantees of independence and independence of courts and judges, or the independence of public prosecutors. So exactly the opposite of what we have heard from individual speakers in the current course of the debate, this law will make it impossible, or eliminate any political influence and influence of political parties on judicial flows, whether it is the very conduct of disputes or personal solutions. The work of the Academy is clearly defined by the bill and it is not just training judges, prosecutors and their deputies, as well as administrative workers in the judiciary. It is also an important aspect of establishing co-operation with domestic and foreign international institutions, organisations and associations. One aspect is the publication of publications of research and documentation activities and the formation of information centres. My colleagues have already talked about different levels of training, about initial and permanent training. I would point out that here, in the first place, it is the right of the holders of judicial functions to perfect them, not to impose, on some normative and legal obligation to attend the Judicial Academy. A whole set of these laws, and in particular the law on the Judicial Academy, I am primarily talking about this law, given that these remaining five laws represent amendments and additions to already existing laws and they rely on and elaborate on certain norms of the law that we have already adopted, will certainly contribute to the reform of our judiciary, the reforms that we, i.e. The National Assembly, this government and this ministry run by Mrs Malovic, began a year and a half ago by adopting a whole series of laws. The law on the Judicial Academy is necessary. It enables and allows judges, prosecutors, their deputies and administrative staff to constantly and continuously improve. They must perfect themselves, they must acquire new knowledge, so that citizens, for which these laws are passed, have access to justice, so that justice is equal for all. As a member of the DS, as an MP for the ZES Parliament Club, I support this legal project and I want to express my satisfaction that this law has come before us. With it, we practically round up the set of these so-called so-called. Organizational laws regarding the judiciary. Of course, we still have a big job ahead of us, both in front of the justice minister and the Serbian government, concerning the new law, the law on litigation, the law on notaries and several other laws. Anyway, the law on the Justice Academy is necessary. We have also heard from opposition parties that they welcome the adoption of this law and that they will eventually try to correct it through the amendment procedure. What should be one constant and criteria, it is a constant and continuous improvement of the holders of judicial functions. If we do so, if our judicial authorities follow this intensities, which this law also contains, as well as the laws that we have passed, it is certain that we will not have thousands of outdated criminal cases, and the litigation proceedings will not last for five, ten or more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28843	Thank you. As no one calls from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups – ZES, New Serbia, Forward Serbia, DS and the SRS, and the word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28844	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities for the Combating High-Technological Crime and the Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy. As a professional lawyer, I would like to welcome the Ministry of Justice's efforts to bring this set of laws before the MPs of the Republic of Serbia and to try to continue to correct the situation in society and the situation in the judiciary. I would like to refer with a few words to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. I think it is a good thing that this amendment and the addition of the Law make certain changes in terms of jurisdiction for criminal offences, regardless of the level of the threat of punishment, and particularly criminal acts that are set out in their seriousness. These are crimes of promise over an powerless face, a promise of abuse of position, kidnapping, trafficking of minors for adoption, violent behavior at a sports event and the use of bribes. Also, this bill defined that the Supreme Court would be in charge of disputes over violations of hate speech, protection of the right to private life, or the right to personal record and the failure to publish information, for all those disputes under the Public Information Act. Another good thing, according to my assessment, is that, given that amendments to the Code on Criminal Procedure have been significantly extended to the application of a reduced criminal procedure, it is proposed to decide by appeal in a shortened procedure, to be responsible for the appeal, instead of the High Court, because there will be a greater harmonisation of the case-law in the second instance. I would now refer to what has been the central theme of all the MPs who have been speaking so far, and this is the draft law on the Judicial Academy. We can ask ourselves if we are satisfied with the situation, the present situation, in general, in Serbia's judiciary. I'm not talking about the last year, I'm talking about the last few dozen years. I was able to face problems in the judiciary, more than 24 years ago, as a graduate lawyer, as a legal intern. Here, we are now witnessing that we are coming to such an organisation and any other reform of the judicial system that needs to establish a system for the future. I think it is important to all of us that, apart from the organisational things, material conditions, all those who are in charge of justice have sufficient expertise and that these people who perform such significant functions are constantly perfected, and that this depends not only on the will or special engagement of individuals, who have so far been able to perfect themselves, but that, by establishing a judicial academy, and institutionally setting conditions for people who want to perfect themselves, they have an institution where they could do so in an adequate way. Here we have in some way beginners, on the one hand, who have finished law school, regardless of what academic knowledge they have acquired, whether only graduate lawyers or doctors of law, are in a position to approach those practical knowledge that should contribute to a graduate lawyer being also a good judge, a good public prosecutor, or a deputy public prosecutor. To do this, it is necessary to establish one such institution, to define the activity defined in the Bill's proposal and in the way that it has not been done so far, and it is obviously a problem in the former exercise of the functions of the entire judiciary. In some ways, conditions are created for us to be in a position to constantly promote justice and people who are engaged in justice. The fact is, in this period since I've been a lawyer, in the last 25 years, a lot of regulations have been changed. I was able to learn from each other the way we should work and how to turn her, the mahom in theory, the knowledge we came to in law school into practice. I think the bill adequately defines the work of the Academy, where a good part of the law is dedicated to the organisation itself of implementing a decision to regulate the organisation of training. However, the work of the Academy should also cover the establishment of co-operation with domestic, foreign and international institutions, organisations and associations, as well as the publication of publications of research and documentation works through a documentary and information centre. All of us who have dealt with law enforcement know how much it is necessary to have an institution where we can reach certain knowledge based on which to be better tried, better perform a prosecutorial function, but also that a whole army of young graduate lawyers who claim to deal with the judiciary be able to learn how to apply theoretical knowledge in practice. It's a big deal for a graduate lawyer to train him to be a good prosecutor and a good judge. It is precisely the goal of setting up the Academy to provide professional, independent, impartial and effective exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions and to effectively carry out the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff, as it is not possible to carry out effectively without the knowledge and maximum professionalisation of the staff to monitor them in the work. Permanent training of judges and prosecutors is envisaged, in principle, as voluntary, unless other laws provide for it as mandatory. We all know that the mandatory training of a judge is provided for by the Law on juvenile offenders and the protection of minors and the Family Law. With regard to certain things that we are facing in practice, which are the change of specialisation, the important changes in regulations, the introduction of new techniques of work and the removal of shortcomings in the work of judges and prosecutors, that is precisely what is provided for in the draft law, to allow for such cases and to justly prescribe mandatory training between judges and prosecutors. With regard to the specific programme of permanent training for judges and prosecutors first elected to a three-year term, the fact is that the purpose of this training is to facilitate the participation of judges and deputy public prosecutors who are elected for the first time in office and allow faster involvement in the work. The fact is, with regard to all those bodies that need to be active in the work of the Judicial Academy, the exceptional impact of those who have the richest and greatest practice. These are experienced judges and experienced prosecutors. If we look at the proposal for legal solutions, we will see that the profession has just been given priority, that those who can learn the most about others who need training are those who are supposed to participate in both the programming bodies and the board of directors, in a way that does the judicial academy as best as possible. As MEP of the ZES Group, I propose to all my colleagues that, no matter how much we are in the opportunity for amendments and these good legal solutions, possibly, to further improve, in the day of voting, we support this whole set of judicial laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-26-0.u28845	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. We've got two and a half minutes of direct transmission for the book fair event, so I suggest we continue tomorrow's work at 10 o'clock. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic would be the first speaker tomorrow.
