ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24319	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 111 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we move on to the regular and rules of procedure specified during the session, I remind the MPs that the government of the Republic of Serbia declared Friday, July 17th, a day of mourning in Serbia over the death of our citizens in a serious car accident in Egypt. I ask the National Assembly to pay our respects to our victims in Egypt for a minute of silence. Praise them. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Zeljko Tomic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I hereby inform the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 88(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to representatives of Nebojja Bradic, Culture Minister, and Snezana Malović, Justice Minister, to attend and Nadica Momirov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Predrag Bladjevic, Culture Ministry Secretary Tatjana Bojić-Juric, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture and Natasa Vuković-Lesendrić, Assistant Culture Minister. On the occasion of the next agenda points, in addition to the proposing representatives, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, also attends Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, an independent adviser at the justice ministry. We move to a common principled search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Information and Proposal for a Law on Culture The Word has a National MP, Željko Ivanji, followed by a National MP, Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24320	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice-President, Honorable Ministers, when we talk about amendments to the Law on Public Information, we have to ask one basic question, and that question is – what does that mean to be free? Certainly, my freedom does not endanger someone else's freedom. Freedom also means responsibility. Being responsible is a character trait, but in our language it means responsibility and answering when you endanger other people's rights, rights defined and protected by the state, to which we transfer a great commitment, which is that it reacts instead of us when we are threatened by a right. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe, which we are so proud of, literally stands – everyone has the right to freedom of expression. That's the first attitude. In the second position it literally writes – since the use of these freedoms entails duties and responsibilities, it can be subject to formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties prescribed by law, necessary in a democratic society. The view then sets out examples in cases of protection of public security and, among other things, for the protection of morals, health, protection of reputation and the rights of others. The state of Serbia could have a problem if these amendments and amendments would not have been passed, because personally as a member of the Legal Committee of the Council of Europe, a committee dealing with human rights issues, with a bracelet of something that calls itself a public vote, I can go to Strasbourg and ask the Committee a question – Why does Serbia allow all this. It is hardly that any human right remains preserved against the vomit it calls a newspaper produced on a daily basis. On the first pages of certain public messages you have the promotion of the most disgusting things, the promotion of incests, the killings, but what hurts most from the point of view of human rights violations – no protection of minors. The other day, a picture of a child killed herself in his father's grave was published, and the day after that, we have a picture of a father who killed himself on his child's grave. The front pages also filled the photos of a torn-up minor in a bear cage, and when we consider that all this was happening in the city center at the Calemegdan Fortress and the beer festival, with a prize game – find a beer box, whose maintenance in the historic part of the city allowed who knows who and for what reason is asking one logical question – are we normal? The media needs to see the essence of the problem, not to throw a brutal consequence into our face. What if that consequence in this case was thrown into the face of that tragically deceased boy's family? Is that what those who, with breakfast in the morning, are thinking of tearing away a piece of bread, stared at the grief of a family that avoids news trades, are those quasi-intellectuals who gained the status of a writer inspired by the bombing of Sarajevo while writing about tourism, and journalists' careers are used to blood and grief reports from wartimes? What if someone calls me a thief on the front page and happens to be my judge and my executioner? What if that's what my daughter sees, who buys her favorite candy on the track, and the saleswoman says, "Hey, say hello to Dad, and the neighbor whispers," they steal everything? Can we let them be the same judges and executioners of our families? All the thieves will tell those who cut off their fingers, which we're very well informed about with all the photos. They read the newspaper, together with professional analyses of independent economic analysts, one of whom was, for example, Karic's witness at the "Mobtel" arbitration, and another owner at the pyramidal bank that was shut down, fortunately and thanks us. There's a lot of people who hate us for a reason, because we broke their dirty jobs. This law provides maximum freedom for free and professional journalism and maximum restrictions and sanctions for lie promoters, for the fabrication of untrues, slanders, for the endangerment of minors. It is rude to compare this law with Vucic's law, because while Vucic visited Belgrade in search of satellite antennas and a desire to tax the world window, with the same passion with which he is visiting European wineries today in order to facilitate the acceptance of the value of Europe, the media in Serbia, which promoted basic human rights, the values of civilization, democracy, were brutally shut down, with special assistance, so-called. A regulation that prevented the spread of defetism, and Curuvija was killed on the greatest Christian holiday. Today we have a public record that, like the former state media, has the same logic of the charges, from being an agent of the CIA, that he's a traitor, that he's a Gestapo, to a call to a lynch and a grave. We're still fighting the same thing today, what's anticivilizing, what's a lot of blood, lies, slanders, what insults common sense, family, what's stupid, retrograde. What he publishes on the front page – the kiss of a famous person entitled “pulling out tonsils”. We fight hate speech, discrimination on any basis. I don't want anyone to believe a lie, those who enjoy jumping off a terrace, who are lonely, so they'd like to share with us the happiness of being alive, or those who enjoy every smoke of marijuana from a minor child, but also those who cool themselves in the wine cellar, who spread lies, but also those who believe that the road to Europe leads by paveding the way in their native village. Let each one at last answer for his actions. To answer, he must own property. If the circulation raised a lie about me that I was a thief, by calling the Assembly a barn, and thus encouraging me to cut off a man's finger with spoken words, they stole everything. Finger shot, statement taken. Then for that, after that daily edition, my son and his child will cry because his father is a thief, and his father won't have a finger on his hand that caress him, the punishment that he'll have to pay with that tiara for the one who invented my thieving, to which he provoked the one who cut off his finger. It's not this law to defend the character and the actions of any politician. About the image and the work of any politician or statesman should be given by the court of history, devoid of stupidity, which the media also once published, imputing words to a man of fatigue – watch over Yugoslavia for me, in words that we had to kill the king and queen and so on. These things were also made up by certain media at the time. After five dead rulers whose murder was half preceded by a hack, unless it's impossible to respect civilization values today, with the fear of not making a mistake, in any case it's better to play music all day long.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24321	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. After that, the national emissary of Jelena Trivan. Please, MP Markicevic, just to register in the electronic system. I don't have a registration of your name, MP, in a board of words. It is possible that this parliamentary unit is in failure, as happened yesterday with seven parliamentary units. No, none of the three MPs the MP tried to activate give a signal. You have the right to use the pay phone, if you wish, for your time, if you do not wish to sit elsewhere. The parliamentary unit is obviously malfunctioning, as was the case with the first two rows, or seven parliamentary units from field six. Please request the right to a word. Please, MP, use your first word for it using the National Assembly pay phone, because the problem is either in the card or in some MP's unit. The right to receive word by application is undeniable and I must be assured. Here you go. The time available for the New Serbia parliamentary group is one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24322	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I protest Madam Vice President, because of the failure of the electronic system, I am forced to speak back to Mr. Minister, which was not my intention. In these minutes I have only a few things to tell you, until we get to those amendments, so New Serbia will have even more time. Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you that the Kingdom of Serbia 900 and some years had an information law that had one member – the press is free. That's all I can tell you in this minute. I warn you, Madam Vice President, that you do not share from this place the citizens of Serbia, don't share the MPs and when we mourn some people who have tragically lost their lives. I would like to remind you that yesterday a parliamentary group, an MP, asked for a minute of silence in order to honor and drink to the citizens of Serbia who lost their lives in Egypt. Did you need the government to tell you that today is a day of mourning? The day of mourning was yesterday and being, especially for those families, for all time. Please don't share us anymore, even in such a difficult and sensitive moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24323	The word has been given by MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24324	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the LDP parliamentary group, as said yesterday's group head, Cedomir Jovanovic, will not vote for the law. We are against the media, which in the jargon we call the udbo-mafijak, which is not only "Kurir" which is the subject of this law, because it ripped off its old employers, because we remind that the newspaper was used to destroy the government of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic by the party that is now proposing this law. We against these media, gentlemen, have over 100 lawsuits, and our party and leader of our party have been on the line for years. No one in the government was excited about it, but now that the devil has come for himself and the dog that was fed has begun to bite those who fed him, now suddenly a law that is inappropriate to European standards. We can't vote simply because it's a public interest above the party. Our party interest would be to vote for this law, no doubt. Instead of hundreds of lawsuits that we have against these media and wasting time in courts, we would be interested in putting order into what's called media and not respecting basic standards of profession. However, the public interest tells us that this cannot be done if we want to adopt European standards and if we want to go to Europe. It's just that this is one repressive law. At the moment that Europe has honored us with visa liberalisation, we are showing a desire not to respect European standards and therefore the LDP considers this to be a mistake. We don't think this law will apply. We think this law will violate Serbia's reputation in European institutions and because of this public interest we are not able and ready to support it. We think that freedom of the media is one of the fundamental and fundamental European values and we think that this government has been able to apply existing laws to make the media respect ethical and professional standards. We regret that professional associations are unable to establish order among their members and their professions, but this incompetence of professional journalists' associations cannot be an excuse for such a law. That it was hasty with this law and was written in haste, all the opposite of the original version of this law that the experts of 2002 made for several months, I know by the circumstances, because I was in that commission, too, unfortunately, is proof of the many amendments the government has accepted and whose law it is trying to fix. But it's not enough. It is not worthy of Serbia that wants to join the EU, it is not worthy of the government that says it wants Serbia's full membership in the EU and I deeply believe it, although the majority may be found in the voting day for this law, that this law will have to change very quickly. Simply, many things that we are not currently able to do, let's say, restitution and return of property, will very quickly wait for us as some conditions from Europe, because we cannot marketing and only through visa liberalisation prove that this is the Government of Europe and that it is on the European path. No matter what the legislator, or who proposed the law, wanted this law, we think it will not be achieved, and the only thing that will be achieved is the country's credibility and Serbia's commitment to European standards. We regret that the law on culture, which is truly a fundamental law, has served here as a mask, in order to push the pace of changing the information law. We think that the law on culture really deserved a special point of the agenda and debate, but if someone decided to sacrifice the law on culture just to pass these amendments to the information law and to deal with someone with whom he was a partner and a co-worker yesterday, it is only proof as much as this ministry of culture and this government really wants fundamental changes in Serbia. Unfortunately, the sacrifice of the law on culture, in order for the government to deal with what few insubordination media, we of the LDP think there are other laws, there are laws that allowed order to be introduced. The party who proposed this law thought differently and all responsibility for all that followed was in the government and the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24325	The remaining time available for the LDP parliamentary group is one minute and 30 seconds. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic. The time available to the G17 parliamentary group plus is 10 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24326	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information is certainly one of the most sensitive topics that Parliament can discuss because it treats one area within the Constitution guaranteed rights, i.e. freedom of the media. However, one stable democratic society does not need from anything, including the freedom of the media, to create taboo topics, as well as from laws that regulate the area. In fact, a mature democratic society should occasionally or continuously review the validity, efficiency of the legislative regulation that regulates this area. As with most other laws and the Public Information Act, as it has so far been in force, it contains a balance between the rights and obligations of all participants in the public information process. That also applies to public opinion. The moment the balance of the disturbances arises, problems as we currently have in the media space and on the media scene of Serbia. What exactly is the situation in Serbia today? The largest number of public hearings and actors working in them act in accordance with their own professionalism, based on professional ethics and do not feel any difficulty in constitutional and legal solutions as they exist. However, a small number of votes, using the lack of and imperfection of existing laws, in particular its sanctions provisions, simply instrumented and turned into a means of manipulating public opinion, adopting a methodology in which targeted mud and discredited individuals, especially public officials, particularly politicians, their political ideas, projects that are even state-owned, stand in the way of interest. What are these interests behind these messages? They can be contained in profits, so in achieving as many circulations as possible by spreading scandals of staged affairs, to attract as many readers as possible. But even more dangerous is the fact that most often behind these media groups are different stakeholders. They are political, parasecurity, and even organized criminal groups, which we have a very negative experience in the past. In this way, an ambience was created in Serbia where the stake was already set and each individual could be placed at any time, if found on the path of these stakeholders, primarily on the front pages, and then placed on that stake and dragged through public opinion for days and months. Does this assembly and Serbia today have an answer for a solution to this situation? The existing and proposed amendments and additions of this law to all those who have read this bill by no letter, no single grain changes the corpus of the rights that the public read so far, but certainly establish much more precise mechanisms and rules for punishing all those who violate the law. G17 plus we don't see what the problem is. In fact, these amendments and additions to the law get this law on its efficiency, which should also be the goal, that the laws we adopt actually apply. Untasteful and incorrect comparisons of this law with the totalitarian, repressive 1998 law of Aleksandr Vukic, which was aimed at suffocating the elemental civil and democratic freedoms, and the last thing we can allow is respecting party G 17 plus. We, as a political entity, either in the form of NGOs or parties, have made huge efforts during our ten-year work, our people and ideas in building the foundations of democratic, civil and civilised Serbia. We will always be against the atmosphere that has been created today, and that is the atmosphere of controlled chaos, which may also be appropriate to some sitting in this assembly, the collapse of elementary civilization norms and communication in public space. The current ambience and atmosphere that exist are the continuity we have since the creation of a multi-party system in Serbia since the 1990s, with someone's desire to systematically compromise the democratic system and its institutions. In one place, you have a compromise of parliament, elected representatives, other institutions in the country, but in the end it also comes down to the compromise of freedom of the media. The G17 plus will always be for civil and democratic principles and therefore the G17 Group of MPs will support such a bill, firmly confident that we are strengthening the foundations of democratic, civilised and modern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24327	The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, the time available to the DSS parliamentary group is 11 minutes. After that, MP Tomislav Nikolic is after her, as reported MPs give up in the meantime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24328	Dear People's MPs, long-ending and extended and short-lived, the law on culture, which is before us today, we do not know exactly in which version and what government will add to this law at some phone session, is certainly neither systemic, nor thorough, nor roof. It does not offer solutions that provide frameworks in which specificities of theatre and film art, archivistics, protection of cultural monuments, etc. could be developed. In his opening statement, the minister said that the cultural development strategy is one of the most important newspapers of this law. We don't know anything about strategy at this point, when the law is passed. We won't have a strategy for at least a year, as long as the ministry has given itself time to write and propose it to the government. The law we are deciding today will become more concrete only in three months, when the ministry writes 12 sublegal acts necessary for its implementation. So, all deadlines to be respected, and this is rarely the new law on culture, which we are discussing backwards, in a joint search with the most embarrassing information law in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, we will not have another year until we adopt the strategy and write a sublegal act. I believe this government will not have enough time to complete the work on the cultural law. We've been waiting for this law for years, hoping to bring us new system solutions, the necessary state in which the regime changed. They're gone. Everything's more or less the same, except for what's worse. One thing I didn't understand for all these years how long we've been waiting for the new law on culture: why do all culture ministers act like the laws on culture don't exist at all? Because culture would then be governed by laws, even old, old democracies don't change their laws for a hundred years. Our culture ministers prefer to manage this country's culture according to their discretionary rights and according to their interests, personal and party interests. In his opening statement, the minister noted as a significant newspaper the establishment of a national cultural council. I agree that the National Council for Culture would be an important newspaper if it had been given more and more precise jurisdiction in law, that the Council's council's advice was prescribed to listen to or at least to bear on, so that the public knows what the minister's advice did not accept and therefore concludes what kind of policy the minister does not want to lead, what his real intentions are. The National Council for Culture, as defined in the law, is a bulky and non-operational body, for which you do not know exactly what it will do. I am personally concerned about the national institutions of culture: The National Theatre, which has been looming for years in unresolved problems; the National Museum, which has been closed for seven years, and the valuable images have been compromised because none of the cultural ministers has been able to settle for what deposit is most favourable to the paintings or to the minister; for the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad, it has been so long as a building, that it can hardly function minimally. Only those national cultural institutions that had good directors-managers for directors were saved. Such directors were replaced or assigned by the acting directors. Why the minister replaces successful directors, only he knows that. In the new law on culture, national culture institutions are not mentioned by reference. We won't, when the law is passed, know what institutions they are, and by yesterday, we knew perfectly well. The law does not specify how it will be financed, according to programmes and projects. It's absolutely inadmissible and not enough. It is in the general, general and public interest that national institutions of culture carry out their work according to the highest standards of profession, European and global, to provide them with a legal framework and adequate funding. National cultural institutions cannot only be provided with funds for employees' salaries and on everything else discreetly to be decided by the minister on the basis of a programme plan they present to him, which is what the new system-based, roof-based law on culture says. There are actions in culture that must not be left at any cost for insufficient budget financing or leaving the market. If we don't protect our cultural monuments, and those on KIM, of course, permanently and properly, if we don't process and save for future scientific studies, we'll lose our past. We'll become a country without culture, and we've had a culture that's been growing for hundreds of years. We won't be able to build an older and better past. We will become faceless, and as such we will not be good to anyone, nor to the EU, for which swearing Europeans would do anything, even at the expense of their own people and countries. In his opening presentation, the minister also cited the decentralisation of culture as a very good solution in the new cultural law. Transferring to local self-government burdens that she cannot bear, trusting her with tasks she has no means of carrying them out, because she needs them for folk cuisine and social giving, and there's no money for that either, is not decentralisation. It's the oppression of culture outside Belgrade. Sounds paradoxical what I'm about to say, but it's not. Decentralisation can be done in some respects, not all of them, from the centre, and from the ministry, from the government, from Belgrade. We could give up a few million dinars for "Bitef" or "Belef", which often end up in the pockets of people close to the authorities, and renovate some theater or some home of culture, what kind of tents across Serbia today and build in Piroth or Prepolje perhaps a music hall. Regional Institutes for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, for example, should remain in the jurisdiction of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, and the Ministry should provide him with funds and a legal framework to protect monuments throughout Serbia's territory, including KIM of course. About the failure made in the new cultural law, from which cultural goods are left, the first degree of protection, which represents 80% of all cultural goods that we have, that we don't even talk. The new law has decided to protect only good from exceptional importance and world heritage. What else are we going to say to the world? The DSS strongly advocates decentralisation in culture, as diplomatically new talks say. decentralisation in culture, we understand, among other things, that the state by law, money, the practice of the ministry allows cities and municipalities outside the capital of the same or at least the approximate conditions of enjoying the top cultural achievements that citizens of Belgrade have. decentralisation in culture is not even when a cultural event is held once a year, which is spent on all means, and for the rest of the year, the city or the municipality of the mosque in the cultural darkness. The "Milivoje Zivanovic" theatre festival is dear to the Požarevljani, but they might be even more pleased to provide funds for the renovation of the old, real, baroque theatre, which the old Firefighters built by private means, and under our administration of collapse and decay for decades. The solution is neither "Serbia in Serbia" nor the arrival of Belgrade shows in the province, from which it earns we do not know exactly who it is. That's nice, though. The cities and municipalities of Serbia should be given the opportunity to cultivate local talents and cultural life to take place all year round. The new law on culture doesn't touch the privatisation problem, and it would have to. Privatisation in culture should be prescribed by law on culture, not by others related to economy and factories. But privatisation is money, big money, and when it comes to money, culture is the last thing the government thinks about. The term "cultural industry", cannot be more worldly and European, is not mentioned in the new cultural law. Why would industry be financed from a modest culture budget, the private ambitions of artists close to policy options in power are financed? They should not be financed even when they are undoubtedly great artists. We're not that rich. The modest budget for the culture we have at our disposal must be spent rationally, domestically for the most necessary, what we will not be able to recover when it fails.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24329	People's MPs, time available to your MP's group has been used. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. The time at the disposal of the Progressive parliamentary group is 15 minutes, followed by MP Branimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24330	Representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24331	People's MP, we are currently in session when a word is given to MPs by word. So now you can use the 15 minutes available to your parliamentary groups, and the time of the president of the parliamentary group when the list of speakers is exhausted, and according to the application for a word, as well as others, on the basis of Article 94.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24332	Can I leave my discussion to the end, to connect it to the discussion, as a representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24333	No, now, during the session when we speak according to the application for a word, your parliamentary group must use 15 minutes or not, and your right as president of the parliamentary group for 20 minutes after.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24334	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the minister's behaviour, the chairman's behavior, are very well described in the book of Morris Jolie, which conducts the imaginary dialogue between Makijaveli and Monteskje. He says Makiyaveli: "Freedom is the right to do what the laws allow, and my laws will only allow what is necessary." He also says: "The press in most parliamentary countries tends to resent the whole world because it is corrupt, unfair. Without any generosity or patriotism, it simply prevents self-will from doing power, forcing all officials to be honest, to be modest, to respect themselves and others. It gives everyone who is oppressed ways to get angry and to be heard." Many things can be forgiven by an establishment that, despite so many abuses, provides unforgivable and so many services. But what will you make of Makiavellia when he says that in future a decree will order that no newspaper can be launched without government consent, but that they can be abolished if the government disagrees with them, that the political vote will submit to what you call today a tax mark and compulsory financial insurance and bail. Where did you get the ideas from hell, Mr. Minister? ''The press will soon, thanks to the increase in these taxes and penalties, be so little lucrative, that only the most generous will engage in this adventure. Gentlemen of the press, I could have forbade you all, but I'm letting you live. The condition of it is that you do not interfere with my actions or tarnish my rule. You have a pen, write, but remember well – for myself and my pronouns I reserve the right to judge you every time I'm attacked. When you attack me, I'll feel it, but, for God's sake, so will you. I'll warn you once, twice, for the third time, I'll put you out. "Yesterday, Mr. Minister, and I am sorry that the Minister of Human and Minority Rights was not there, spoke of his vision of freedom of the press, freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, of his understanding of the conventions that protect those rights. So he told us that the reason for the law being passed was because the existing law proved ineffective. He says that information has been questioned in the domain of objective reporting, as if the aim of informing is objective reporting, as if the aim of thought and idea is objective reporting, and someone will assess what is objective and what is subjective. Like we all don't have our brains, like a man isn't a homo sapien? Then you said that because of the prevention of adverse consequences for the lives and health of citizens, as well as the adverse consequences for the work of the authorities, which is much more important, organisations and other legal entities, the law is passed by emergency procedure. What's Europe going to say? Pežoratively, for those of us who ask what Europe will say, you said – and what Europe will say. What can he say when you insult someone? Europe has thought about it, too, Mr. Bradich. Now I'm going to give you a lecture on freedoms, and I'm going to allow you, if you know anything about it, to give me a lecture. Let the public assess whose understanding of freedom is fairer, whose is more European, whose Serbian. Freedom of expression is the most general form of freedom at all. The function of this freedom and the importance of its realization are conditioned by the existence of an independent and impartial national judiciary that guarantees its achievement, again a condition for democracy. Freedom of expression can at the same time be in conflict with some also important and very important freedoms and rights, which also enjoy constitutional and other types of protection, such as, for example, the right to privacy, the right to justice, the right to freedom of conscience and religion and the protection of values that these rights protect, such as honor, reputation, dignity, morality, national security, etc. The civilization task is to solve these conflicts by establishing proportionality and by determining the primates of freedom of expression in relation to the importance of individual or group interest, for example through media information. European value, maybe it's not yours. The concept of freedom of expression is seen as freedom to express thought, whether it is ideas, knowledge, values, beliefs, whether it is done by word, letter or image, or through all other modern means of reproduction and diffusion of thoughts and words, whether it is printed or modern means provided by IT, whether it is a book or a press, which is much more common, or whether it is current or future audio-visual means. The existence of democracy and its development, as well as the development of every human being, are best protected and made possible by freedom of expression. The freedom of expression of me absolutely, even though it applies to all kinds of expression, and it is limited by the decisions of the Court of Human Rights so as, for example, not to cover the spread and promotion of racist ideas, racism, insulting the religious feelings of others, denying holocausts, encouraging hatred. It shall also be limited to the reasons laid down in Article 17. Conventions, in violation of other guaranteed rights, i.e. the prohibition of abuse of law. The proportionality in the conflict of freedom of expression and the protection of legitimate interest must be measured by a reasonable degree of tolerance. Freedom of expression is a civilization achievement, a condition for the progress of human society. It is impossible to seek true democracy, the rule of law and the balance of relations between declared human rights and freedoms and their achievement in practice, without enabling and ensuring that freedom of expression is their constituent element. Freedom of expression, i.e. allowing its proper use through mass media, is necessary for the development of human society and each individual in the social, economic, political and cultural sphere. Realising the right to freedom of expression is a condition for harmonic relations in society, state, international community, but also for the progress and development of parts of human society, groups, states and societies across the international community. In order to highlight the importance and proper functioning of freedom of expression, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has adopted a Declaration on freedom of expression and information. The above-mentioned declaration by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers points to the importance and role of using freedom of expression and information and its universal application, regardless of borders. To this end, it is said "states have an obligation to prevent distortion of freedom of expression and information and to adopt a policy that encourages, to the greatest extent possible, the diversity of the media and the diversity of the sources of information, which enables pluralism of ideas and opinions". The declaration therefore requires professional organisations, in addition to legally established rights and duties, to have both professional and ethical codes, to indicate the importance of the free flow of information and ideas at international level and that this freedom must be a fundamental element of a democratic pluralist society. The Declaration therefore says that the aim is to protect the rights of the individual, regardless of the borders, to express his opinion and to seek and receive information and ideas from any source and to make them known under the conditions set out in Article 10. European Conventions on Human Rights; (b) the absence of censorship or any arbitrary control or restriction of the activities of participants in the information process of media content or the transfer and dissemination of information; (c) the implementation of an open information policy in the public sector, including access to information, in order to increase the individual's ability to understand political, social, economic and other issues and to discuss them freely; (d) the existence of a wide variety and independence of independent media, thus enabling different ideas and opinions to be expressed. Something about protection of expression. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes the right to freedom of own opinion, to receive and communicate information and ideas, without interference of public authorities and regardless of borders. This member does not prevent states from requesting permits to operate television, radio and cinema companies. This right protects the expression of who is threatened by the threat or expression that is threatened by the fact that its realization has been disabled. It should be said that the Convention primarily protects, if not exclusively, the right to the same, given to an individual or smaller group. Most and large groups will already protect themselves and fight for their rights. So, this freedom accentuates the society's obligation to tolerate individual views, even in cases where they "shock the majority, when they are rude, rude, when they insult the majority or the state. “ This requires orders of pluralism, tolerance, and broadness. Freedom of owning an opinion; the opinion implies an opinion, a position, an opinion which one person, an organisation or an institution declares to the interested. Opinion is an intellectual ability to understand and understand objects and their relationships. As a psychological-psychiatric term, an opinion means every process and activity to which a person understands an idea, a fact, some object or just some aspect of an object or situation. Freedom of opinion is a natural right. For possession of thoughts is not answered, not even when a crime is thought of. The opinion is intimate, the secret of his author, until he announces it, when he also grows into another freedom, into another form. In order for information to be received and disseminated, it must be devised and the freedom of opinion logically appears as a condition of the formation and existence of two other freedoms – receiving and spreading information. By its nature, the unreported opinion is only available to its author and enjoys absolute protection. The freedom of opinion shall not be subject to any of the restrictions that are taxable in accordance with Article 10(2). Absolute protection of freedom of opinion was given by the Committee of Ministers, citing in its report -- any restriction on this right is contrary to the nature of democratic society. A man as a mental being, as a democratic being, as a civilizational being, according to his mental frame is destined to have individual views and views on various problems. He must form his opinion freely, without coercion, fear or indoctrination by a public authority that, by promoting only unilateral information, affects the formation of not only public opinion, but also denies and makes the freedom of opinion more difficult for individuals as members of that society. Freedom of opinion therefore includes negative freedom, inability to force a statement of opinion. The state and its authorities cannot make any classification and distinctions in determining the position in society between their citizens who have different opinions. The freedom to communicate information and ideas; the word idea has more meaning, above all, in philosophical terms, starts with Plato, which speaks about the form of proper empirical things, Kant talks about the idea of the mind, and Hegel talks about an absolute idea, whose self-development shows logic. As an idea of this freedom, the notion of logic should be understood – that the idea is actually a thought, an idea, a concept. The object of spreading ideas as an action that is protected by this freedom is all that is of life's interest to public opinion. The very activity of "communication" is a general concept for a whole series of content and by form of different activities, but aimed at making certain information or ideas legally available to an unspecified number of consumers, the general public. The convention is alternatively protected information and ideas by spreading them, declaring public opinion to the Convention. It is obvious that the Convention distinguishes between content and nature of information and ideas. It also makes a difference when the court determines whether this freedom is injured. When I say "judgment," I mean the Court of Human Rights. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall, under ‘information’, mean the disclosure, dissemination, making available public opinion to any media or general means of communication facts. The court, therefore, finds that the information consists of facts, better say the fact. The facts according to national courts, according to the Court's view, are subject to proof of their truthfulness. When it comes to telling, spreading opinions, the situation is completely different. The Court finds that the facts on which the opinion is based prove before the Court and that their truthfulness, i.e. untrueness, but not busy or expressed, can be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24335	Thank you. The time available to your MP group has been used. The word is by MP Branimir Djokic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 55 minutes. After him has the word MP Ivan Andric, and the time available for the LDP parliamentary group is one minute and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honorable Minister, I don't know what could be added since yesterday's debate, when MPs, especially from the opposition bloc, delivered their views on the new law on culture and amendments and the addition of the Information Act. A lot of things have been said here, there's a lot more to be said. In any case, my personal position is, although I have no doubt that they were good intentions to pass a new law on culture after 17 years, that many things should be complemented by the Information Act, but I don't think it's done well for many reasons. We keep calling on those 17 years that this law had to change, which is true. You see, I was counting on something, this Law on Culture was passed in 1992 and the Law on Free Action in 1993, it worked and was passed at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and the power of the SPS, it worked while they were in power, it was about seven or eight years. During democratic changes and DOS authorities in Serbia, it has been functioning for almost nine years, the same law we say is wrong. I believe that this law was certainly not complete and that this law had to change, because time has changed, the circumstances have changed, which is perfectly normal. I can say that this law, as it was, has not been applied, it has even been misused, up to 2000, and so since 2000. As a man who has been in this profession and matter for many years, I am now speaking on behalf of my own, on behalf of the SRS and on behalf of many people who are engaged in this work, free artists, people who are employed in public institutions of culture, I have been thinking about how to make all of this into a contribution, if it's worth it at all, so I think there's one common feature of all ministers who come to power, to become untouchable, very difficult to communicate with them, even though you have the best intentions. So it's a common line since the minister's arrival, I have to go back, Mr Branislav Lecic, which he was then announcing a new law on culture. It was pomp, TV, media all of it was followed. It didn't get any of that out of the way. On the contrary, Mr Branislav Lecic, during his term of office, if you remember, there were major protests here outside the House of Unions, in front of the Ministry of Culture. A large number of artists participated in the protests and, of course, nothing happened. It happened that Mr. Branislav Lecic invested a lot of money on films, even on some in which he played, and we don't mind, he's an actor. He will remain remembered only by these protests and probably by pictures of those of his men who came out of the nudist beach at the time. After him comes Mr. Dragan Kodedinović. What happens during his term of office? Nothing's going on. It continues the same way in the old system. Mr. Dragan Koadinovic then also brings in minors full of the Ministry of Culture with his party friends from the SPO. Now he's moving on from him a new life. Everything that's happened so far is no longer good, now it's just moving into the future. That's where the second story begins. That's when the money from the so-called. the tender or projects submitted to the Ministry of Culture for certain whether films or editions, events are happening, as happened during Branislav Lečić, certain people who were close authorities, certain public institutions that were close authorities, certain artists and individuals who were close authorities. In some ways, there is pressure from certain people, artists, that if you are not close to the authorities, you will not be able to participate in certain tenders or projects to get your projects through. All of this was kind of underlining that it was solved by some committees at the Ministry of Culture, and in any case it was solved. The Commission knows how the rules are made, and that all artists or representatives of certain public institutions, art associations and many people who perform this work in this country, who did not want to be close authorities, have the right to think otherwise, have closed the door for them in the ministry. In one conversation, I say in front of the cameras, Mr. Dragan Kadadinovic has issued some documents to some associations that are not even in the law authorized to perform certain activities. It's contrary to the law and so far it works against the law and nothing to anyone. Where the money went, how it went, nothing. The same problems were about theatres, museums, all public institutions. Just to remind you, during Dragan Koadinovic there were demonstrations and protests outside the Ministry of Culture, because then they protested, you remember that, all the employees at the theatre. That's what I remember, because I supported it, and I and many artists have been there for my colleagues. Dragan Kojidinovic had his comments, let them protest for three days and afterwards, a colleague of Bora Djordjevic-Corba, as adviser to Dragan Kojidinovic, went out, begged artists and tried to postpone all of this. You already know the whole story, I'm not talking here right now. It ended with some promises again, and that's how it moved on. Mr. Voja Brajovic is coming. He came—and I don't say anything personally, I know many well, I am with many and I have good relations, but there is one truth—a man has come, he is a determined actor, and he has not been able to do so at all. I tried one conversation with him here in the Assembly for a while and I see a man for half the things he doesn't know about, which is perfectly normal, he needs time to get into all the problems, because the Ministry of Culture, it's a lot of people who say culture, and they don't know how important it is for this society and this country, and how much trouble it is in the Ministry of Culture. Mr. Voja Brajovic as he came, so he left. Nothing happened and we're moving on. You're here. You're a man, you have a name and a last name, you're top-of-the-line in your business, in any case you know the problem of many of us here in Serbia, and you've probably decided to do something now, and I welcome that. Now what? This law on culture, I want to remind you of the public, by circumstances I have been president of the Union of Essradic and Music Artists for four years, and second term, I have participated in all these cultural events and problems that are happening for artists. The law on culture, he began during Branislav Lecic. The people in the culture who did something, the other furniture came, and they said it was wrong, and we're going to do it anyway. There was a third set of furniture that was being refurbished, upgraded, and it was all aimed at European law. They all used to talk about themselves in the media. Finally, one thing turned out was that they all had little hearing to hear artists and people from the sphere of culture, public institutions, who were not close to them. If these people came to give certain criticisms, suggestions, in their best interest, the doors were closed to them. It's a big mistake, Mr. Minister. You must protect the opposition, cherish it. The real opposition wants nothing wrong with this people. I perform here as an artist, perform as a member of a political party of the SRS. I'm saying all of this in good faith not for me, not for individuals, maybe some of my attitudes are wrong, maybe they're wrong. But you must have that approach, and not what comes from the opposition, that libio artist or worker in the economy, it is automatically rejected. All proposals, additions to the law, not only here in culture that we are talking about today, but every day what happens in the Assembly here, which comes from the opposition, that ruling minority coalition immediately rejects, yuck, it's not valid. That's gonna hit the head. During that time, the citizens of Serbia suffer. Now we're talking about the Culture Act. That's how this is happening now. I note, let the public know, you have a certain environment of your advisors and people in the legal service. Now I'm saying publicly that they're not so unprofessional. They're lawyers. Their party, party blindness from reality, is stronger than one democratic spirit about the good intentions of this society. They direct not only you as the minister of the present, they direct other ministers before you. They made them which way to go. Let me tell you, and it's human, if there's 10-15 of them out there that put pressure on you, probably every man succumbs to influence. It's hard to resist. Every day they serve you information, which, my God, are what they are, and for all that time, they close the door so that you may be untouchable, that the right information cannot come to you, and you, as minister, make such moves. No one knows who's around you, I apologize, I don't want to insult anyone personally, but certain people at the Ministry who work there, officials, will all call you Minister of Culture, Mr Bradic, that in your time such a solution of the law on culture has been passed, such and such a solution of the information law. The fact that it is as it is now, let me tell you, they will wait for the next minister and will continue to be in the Ministry of Culture. They don't know what they're doing in their street, I don't want to insult them, but in principle, not to mention their knowledge of the problem in culture. It's a special story. One good gesture you did, but you were late, when you invited all the representatives of the public institutions here to the Assembly, Mrs Mojovic listed them, so I don't now list them from all over Serbia, from Kragujevac, from Nis, from Belgrade, representatives of the association, people from the profession. You weren't at the first meeting, but you have a stenogram, you could hear a lot of good things in a good way how to fix that law, how to make new solutions. People performed well-intentioned. That was the second meeting when you were, but you've already done the law on culture in the draft, he's passed the government. After you saw that there was a lot of pressure and that the public was already moving, as the media court and artists say, in agreement with the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Vesna Marijanovic, you did it, but late. Apparently, a public debate has been held on the proposal for a law on culture. I know she's been run for a year, half a year. It's been changed a thousand times. No one knew what that was. A version of the new Bill on Culture from the time of Voja Brajovic to you 40 members has been expelled from the law. I'm not saying they were all rolling, but maybe some other members should have been put in. I wouldn't want to talk about the details and suggestions of this law here today, given that we, the SRS, have submitted amendments in our best interest to fix it, to try to save something. And through the amendments if you want to get involved personally, so that your advisors don't party to destroy it, certain institutions, I think you can fix it. If you allow them to continue to pressure you, you will be remembered and recorded for all that is happening in Serbia regarding culture and public information.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24337	The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. The time available to the ZES parliamentary group is 93 minutes and 36 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, I'm going to talk about the bill on culture. There have already been words about how important this bill is as a roof law, as a system law, which actually creates conditions to adopt a whole series of regulations that need to improve the state and our system in culture. We talk about culture very rarely and are constantly under pressure from seemingly important and urgent topics. This bill sets out the general interest in culture, but in order to discuss culture in the right way we need to understand that culture is our common interest. The fact that we rarely talk about culture can lead us to a wrong idea that the whole democratic transformation, which has been happening in Serbia since 2000, we have seen it as a purely political and economic transformation, and that transformation, our approach to Europe, modernization of our society is actually a major cultural transformation of Serbia. This cultural transformation requires that we change many of our behaviors, to change a large number of cultural patterns that serve in our everyday behavior, both in our policy, in our daily communication, in business culture and in what is a culture in a narrow and wider sense. The cultural transformation of Serbian society and Serbia requires a major general effort by all actors. In this regard, I think it is extremely good that this law speaks of the integration of cultural development into socio-economic, political long-term development. What's terribly important is that we establish standards in cultural politics and develop a cultural system. This law regulates relations in the fields of culture and defines cultural entities, the obligation of cultural institutions founders, the way of funding, determines priorities and general interests in culture. The law paves the way for building and adopting Serbia's cultural development strategy. The strategy is scheduled to be drawn up in one period of three years. Personally, I think it would be better to set the period as five years, given the political integrity that one strategy is implemented over a long period of time. What should be the priority in our cultural policy? First of all, we need to improve significantly to improve the state of our cultural institutions, especially those of national importance. Today, everyone knows who's interested in it, a large number of museums and other cultural institutions are actually on the verge of existence and even the possibility of it working. What we also need to do, and what this law promotes as one of the values, is intersectoral co-operation in culture, business cooperation with institutions in culture, by always keeping in mind that the business sector must in no way play a dominant role, but only through various forms and sponsorships and mecenaries, contributes and helps to the development of culture. It is certain that it is necessary to diversify sources of funding in culture, make them diverse. In this regard, I think it is extremely important that we also pass a law on duties and foundations in a recent period. I know the Ministry is working on that proposal in co-operation with a large number of foundations and responsibilities. Also, one of the important priorities is certainly decentralisation. There are many cultural institutions in various parts of Serbia, which demand to be assisted by a central cultural assistance programme. I recently had the opportunity to stay in Lazarevec, at the invitation of a group of people who organized a great exhibition. I was really surprised by one fine offer in that city, an offer that I think the citizens of Belgrade would need to be familiar with, to see it, but I think that the city of Belgrade and Serbia should also help in a better way. The improvement of management in our cultural institutions is also one of the priorities that this law and the entire policy that is actually being promoted by this law. The availability of culture is one principle that this law also promotes. I think a step further should be taken, that through the development of inclusive programmes, cultural programmes for various marginal and social groups should be given even greater importance and application in our cultural policy. In the end, I would like to say something about a question that we often and gladly talk about, which is a question of our national identity, which we understand very often as a historical heritage. This law, of course, speaks very much about how we must preserve our historical heritage, to digitize the forms of its preservation, etc. It is indisputable that our historical heritage is important for our identity national, historical. It is important that we safeguard our tradition and improve the mechanisms for its preservation. However, we should not in any way fall into one delusion, that our national identity and what we need to safeguard is just a historical category. Our identity does what we do today and what we leave behind as our work in the field of culture today, like what we leave behind for generations to come. I think, in that sense, we should also develop some forms of critical memory, which in a critical way values both history and heritage in general. This is what all the great and mature peoples do, and I think that Serbia and the Serbian people are such a great and mature people. I have joined those who think that for decades very little effort systemically and in an organized way we have made it possible to contribute to our modern identity, which seems mostly everywhere with the help of culture and culture. In order to achieve this, we must pay particular attention to young creators, new initiatives, the introduction of new technologies in culture and cultural programmes. I think it's a great example of the recent opening ceremony of the University, when we had the chance to see how a group of young artists and creators in a really modern way represented Serbia and helped to see Serbia as a country that corresponds to the world in a modern and current way, which communicates one group of universal values through one such manifestation. Such an undertaking should, together with efforts to preserve our cultural and historical heritage, become the main course of our cultural policy, which will allow us to leave a valuable mark in our time, and to understand in the right way what is cultural in the rest of the world. The amendments that are submitted I believe will speed up one quality of this law and we will adopt a number of them, since it will lead to an improvement in this text. The DS will, of course, vote for this law and we expect it to be at least a good basis for the development of our cultural policy in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24339	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 39 minutes and 30 seconds. After her, Marina Ragush's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret that we are paying this very little time to this law, because this is an extremely good opportunity to talk about the future strategy in culture, because it is really unacceptable that we do not have a strategy in culture until today without talking about operational measures and everything that follows after the adoption of the strategy. In particular, it is unacceptable to adopt a legal solution or proposal that exists in the law that the strategy is adopted in three years. This is something that no area can apply, and especially not in culture, which is meant by its strategy to prescribe some cultural patterns and make sure that these cultural patterns are created for future generations. So not one, but more generations. As culture is completely marginalized and transformed into a political servant, although politics is present in all areas of life, and also in culture, because it confirms its power and realises its influence, it is precisely because of this influence that raises the question of borders and the autonomy of culture as complementary and corrective policies. We're witnessing that the old ideologies are gone. There are no new ones, and we know that culture is a social phenomenon that develops in several directions. I'm saying this because in law we haven't seen what it is that we actually want in culture. We have forgotten that there is this national direction, and within it we mean, first of all, the preservation and development of the fundamental values of the nation, language, positive history, classical art, family, individual, Orthodox Christianity. All this can't go away without the state's financial assistance. I must admit that you inspired me to talk about this law in this way, although I thought I was more concerned with the members of the law, but I left it for discussion in particular, because you and the MPs yesterday - gentlemen of the Parliament. This, Mr. Minister, is not the Croatian Parliament, this is the National Assembly, we are the People's MPs, it says in the Constitution, it is a unique Serbian language, and this would be, believe me, a sufficient reason to ask for your shift. If the culture minister cannot cultivate the language of the Serbian and Serbian people, then what can we expect from all others who act and work in culture. You should give us an explanation of where that came from, because I don't think you're under-educated that you don't understand the meaning of it. Of course, there are others here who spoil that language and use it to lose our national identity, but I will also talk about it in the discussion of details. I started on culture as a social phenomenon and mentioned a national direction, but I also want to mention a traditional direction, which includes the preservation and transfer of historical facts, dedications, beliefs, customs, letters, rules of conduct passed down from generation to generation. Every tribe, language group, people, nations, especially those who live on a common planet today, are guarded and proud of their own tradition, because tradition is, you will agree, a uniter and a guarantee of the survival of a nation, and we do not know and see that in any area of culture, with the support of the state, I say, because the attempts are made, working to preserve our tradition. We can't understand that there are no people without tradition or traditions without people. We Serbs should be aware that tradition is our future. It also preserves knowledge of ourselves. Why? Thanks to tradition, we don't have to wonder who we are, or what we are, or where we come from, or what we do. But we have to nurse her and get back to her so we know what to do. Our ancestors have long answered all these questions that we are asking today, possibly. We inherited the tradition for free. Our ancestors didn't have to raise their loans, give us any bank guarantees, or be in debt to the IMF, to leave it to us. They just left us. Our duty is to cultivate it. How? Without the help of the state, it's impossible. That's why I want to draw your attention to that. Also, one of the phenomena of culture is individual art, because the state must create conditions to fully identify the gift in any art. The individual owns it, the gift, thanks to the gift of God, worked on it, but the state must help him, that the success of its artist, the citizen of Serbia, be our country's success. Of course, there is also a people's and estradial direction that involves a broad sense of entertainment, from light TV series, humor, daily sensationalism in the press, to various forms of popular music. He's commercial, he's on his own. There's a lot of money going around in people's culture, and the state would have to have a tolerance for it. I just want to remind you that in the 1970s last century, a bridge loop called "Gazala" was just financed by a small copyright tax on folk and pop music. So now you see how much money it is if it's done the right way and if we don't get them to go to the gray economy. I'd like to say that if there's time, here's a little more, that my colleagues could talk about this topic, about cultural identity, and I'm telling you all of this because I know you're going to be working on this strategy, along with this advice, so it's not bad to get your attention on time about all of this. There is also a definition of cultural identity as a set of characteristics which make one culture different from other cultures, such as language, folklore, beliefs, customs of one people, lifestyle, work, spiritual, ethical values, and we must say that after a conference in Venice in the '70s, Hungary confirmed and elaborated the key position of the Declaration on the principles of international cultural co-operation, adopted at the General Assembly in 1966 at the UN, and found that the first cultural law, the right of the people to have its own right. That he has a cultural identity, but we have to help him find it, since it's not there. The right to cultural identity has been accepted as the idea of leading all UN programmes, especially UNESCO. You probably know about a worldwide conference on cultural policies from Mexico in 1982, which particularly insists on the protection and promotion of the national language. I would very much like to speak about the language, believe me, for the next hour, only that I have space, but unfortunately we don't have this joint debate, but I think that it also deserves the attention of preserving cultural identity and education in its recommendations, I am talking about the cultural policy of the Mexico conference in recommendations 89-90-91-92. Among the ministry's most urgent affairs, I cannot help but say in the last minute of my speech, it is concern about the cultural heritage of Serbs and other non-Albanian peoples in KIM and developing as effective co-operation with the Union on this issue as possible. The most precious examples of medieval culture in KIM in March 2004 were destroyed. Thirty Serbian monasteries and churches have been destroyed, six of them world heritage pearls and three protected by UNESCO. Among them is the Church of Bogorodična Ljeviška, which was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2006, together with the Pećko Patriarchy and Gracanica. I ask you more about the status of former federal institutions in charge of preserving cultural identity and cultural heritage, the Yugoslavia Archive, the Military and History Museum, the Museum of Yugoslavia and the company "Film News". Lingvist policy is probably the most sensitive component of cultural identity policy, especially when it comes to today's Serbian language and its position in the individual Balkans atlas. So, the crisis, the lack of cultural patterns, the cultural identity, why we don't have a development strategy so far, that's what you should have answered and what I expected to hear from you in your opening statement, before you would have dealt with the very law on culture, and I think your associates should have just taken the law on culture that the state of France has, and that's an advanced democratic and developed state, so you would see what the difference between this law and that law is, what are the values that they favor, and what are the values that we favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24341	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the members of the German province delegation Baden-Vertenberg, headed by Wolfgang Rajkart, the Minister of State and European Affairs in the German Government of Baden-Vertenberg, accompanied by the delegation were Heins Kalberer, Ulrike Grup, Verner Shep, and Wolfram Mas, the German ambassador to Belgrade. We are pleased to see you during the work and session of the National Assembly. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24342	Madam Chairman, Mr Bradic, Madam of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all, and above all, above all, Serbian citizens, I am pleased to see the ladies and gentlemen you listed, since my intention is to talk about the German capital in the Serbian media space. When we talk about the transparency of the media scene and about everything that's been mentioned lately, and it's about Vucic's 1998 information law, we should really talk openly about who's really creating a media space in the state of Serbia, whose interests are being implemented here, and how, Mr. Bradic, do you think you can protect Serbian interests when it comes to media space? So when we talk about everything that should be parallel to today, we should mention the famous listening that happened in 99, it also concerns Mr. Beyden, who is very recognizable to us, pointed out that he has fought very often directly against the interests of the Serbian people. I think Serbia should know what that hearing looked like on July 29th 99th, when, among other things, it was said that $16.5m came to Serbia under a programme to support Serbia's democratisation. Also, at that time Mr. James Pardju spoke and testified about how American national interests are protected in the territory of the Serbian state and how the so-called crash occurred. The totalitarian system of Slobodan Milosevic. Since others don't want to talk about it, the SRS certainly wants to go through concrete facts and concrete data. So, among other things, I quote, Mr. Pardju testified -- we work through NGOs, we set up a ring around Serbia that uses international frequencies, but we also offered these frequencies to independent voices in Serbia. That wasn't enough for Senator Beyden at the time, so he asked the next question - we can secure the stations, are we ready to close the stations that are spreading propaganda? Gelbard, also present at this hearing, defended the US government's policy, noting that during last year's war against Yugoslavia, the United States closed RTS by bombing it. Senator Biden then interrupted him and said – no, I already know, I want to know what you intend to do in the future? Gelbard answered that – as far as I know, RTS was still shut off from Eutelsat, and we made sure to stop them every time they tried to get back online. Gelbard also testified that the United States has distributed money to Yugoslavia through an organisation called "National Democracy Task". This organization was created in 83 to solve a major problem, which is to actually replace the Central Intelligence Agency. So this organization and its satellite organisations have recruited democratic peace activists, independent economists in the countries of the victims. They also recruited journalists in the same countries, who also enjoyed all the benefits of international donations, which mysteriously turn them into independent journalists. They then download existing newspapers, radios and television stations or establish new ones. When democratic activists criticise as foreign mercenaries, which they really are, these independent journalists immediately attack this attack on democracy by corrupt interests hiding behind nationalism. I will try only through a few images to color actually what the media space in Serbia is. What is also a fact and it is not hidden, because these organisations boast in their position of power about it very openly write and talk, and it is forbidden to talk about it in Serbia. So, the National Democracy Task Force continues to assist programmes to build the so-called "Democrats". Democracy in the former Yugoslavia since 1988, along with the Soros Foundation. The national democracy task force has allowed newspapers, radios and television stations to buy equipment and supplies, including printing equipment and radio transmitters. Among the winners of these funds were formerly the newspaper "Our Fight", "Time", "Today", TV Negotin, BETA News Agency, Radio B 92, Association of Independent Electronic Media, to remind you, Mr Bradic, ANEM covered you in Milosevic's totalitarian regime 70% of the media space. Also, let's move on. The organisation's funds, hence the National Democracy Task Force, have been used to bring young, talented SFRJ journalists to the United States for professional training. Other groups financed are the Centre for Humanitarian Law, the Centre for Democracy Foundation, the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, the European Movement of Serbia and the G17. Let's move on. What's also very important, we mentioned yesterday, is this is just a parallel with some time, which is obviously very totalitarian and authoritarian, allowing, say, 19 million dollars from the German power centers that directly shaped what happened in 2000 and so on. Let's see how much percentage here in the media space there is US-German capital, and then it is questionable how do you think that in Serbia the media protects Serbian national interests or to turn the question to the following way – whose interests are protected by the media in the state of Serbia, then let me repeat the question – which journalists did you talk to when you were preparing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Law? When you mention certain names, we are very likely to assume that it is media that are mostly in the majority space of foreign media. Also, another question, which is very relevant in the media space of domestic media, is the following – to whom did you give aid of 60 million, to which media? We'd hate to hear that you've been targeting taxpayers in the state of Serbia with foreign media to survive. Here, we should sit down for this debate, we should ask him certain questions, and then we should know who the real media owner in Serbia is, in what way they are in contact with those who sit in the executive power and how public opinion is actually created in Serbia, what it is that comes to us in autumn, and it is media darkness. I would also very much like to listen to Mr. Beb Popovic, say, talk about what was very current in 2003 and how William Montgomery kicked him out of the Office for Media Cooperation because he attacked Mr. Veran Matic. Or let's ask him how Miskovic suspended the distribution of the "Status" list just because the interview was not at his will. We would also like to hear from Mr Popovic which 100 MPs are on Mr Peconi's payroll? On the other hand, we would also like to hear Mr. Veran Matic, in what way did he privatise B 92 and who is the real owner of B 92 TV? Mr. Bradic, all of these are current issues that should be discussed during a public debate that should be the assumption of such a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Information, that in Serbia, if your goal is to protect Serbian media and national interests, because it is in a direct relationship, to open the right debate, so that we can see how much Gilas and Shaper influence the creation of public opinion in Serbia, how do the PR agencies end all important political events and whether the elections are actually happening in the state of Serbia or are living in a completely parallel reality? It's a real media story and that's what should have been a priority on your agenda, Mr. Bradic. That would have earned the respect of all of us and very possibly if the opposition's blade hadn't been like this if you'd raised at least one of those questions. We are afraid that you will not do this, because this is a path that is less rare, because these pressures are expressed in hundreds of thousands of euros and in those centres of power that are beyond the borders of this country, which are often located at some beautiful tables, wineries in France and in the company of Canet Subotic, some other people who are directly involved in all this which is called a disorder on Serbia's political scene. I believe, given that I have to bring an end to this discussion of mine, that during the debate in particular, in the follow-up that we promised last night, we will ask all the important questions and hopefully hear the most important answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24343	The word is from Natasa Jovanovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 17 minutes and 40 seconds. After the folk letter, Natasa Jovanovic, MP Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will only talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information, in order to leave time for my colleague Krasic and I must tell you that today and all the news that comes through the electronic media that the government allegedly has accepted certain amendments to DS is a waste of ash and doesn't really mean anything, because at the session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for retrograde law, for the law which, in the right sense, also brings journalists to the camp, you voted unanimously. Every change and attempt to correct your intention in fact branded you as people who, in the right sense, do not know either you personally or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular Boris Tadic, what a modern concept of a political society, as the government comes down to a certain degree without banning the individual's freedom that, in this case, the journalists of the printed media are freely interpreting everything that is an impression, or what is happening in public life. As the SRS, we have been running the issue of crime and corruption in Serbia for the past 18 years in the most plastic way possible. We branded all those who took, robbed from the people. Prof. Vojislav Seselj wrote dozens of books about it and it was, in fact, the basis of which, in 2002, a false indictment against him was written against him for some alleged crimes, and after seven years, a man, now known to the entire world public, is innocent sitting there, as we all knew, an entire patriotic Serbia. It all started with the avalanche of writing certain media, which were mercenaries. That's what I have to say, because of the fact that they were paid by the one who owes them the most today in the distribution network to the printed media. Who is this someone? Stanko Subotic, Cane Zabbac, king of the tobacco mafia, mentioned yesterday by prominent counterpart Marina Ragus, who owes the media in Serbia, or the newspaper, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of euros for what he does not pay and has the largest distribution network. Where is the largest media distributor today who owns the company "Futura Plus"? Mil Djukanovic's. Who's he seeing? Who's he visiting? What's the mile around him? It is those who claim to replace you and to imagine that Serbia needs a different democratic Europe. The reminders work, and you too, Mrs. Komic, and you, Mr. Bradic, because you were then the director of the National Theatre of Serbia, in 1999, before NATO aggression, a list of undesirables for the European Union, the so-called blacklist, was published. 19 names were first published. In the first place, he was killed in The Hague, President Slobodan Milosevic, second professor. Dr. Vojislav Seselj and so on, and then really, to my great pride then and some other colleagues, in the 14th place of that list of 19, I found myself. When President Seselj informed me, he told me, it was really proud and happy news for me that I was on that list, I asked – what is in the explanation, why there? He says because you advocated the Public Information Act. Historical fact works, I must remind myself that it is Vucic's law and that this is exactly why he was also on that list of 19 chosen, but he is not proud of it today, because he washes his hands from the ideology he advocated, because he says that the law was not his and because today he is a great European and presents to us his vision of Serbia's entry into the EU and what the EU can offer us. One who wants to offer Europe must say that crime and corruption continue to flourish in Serbia and that this is exactly the one in direct connection with the one who owes the print media huge money, which cane frog is mentioned. How come you haven't learned a lesson from Vojislav Seselj, who is because of the spoken word and because of the verbal delinquent, no matter what it means, seven years in the dungeon of the Hague casamat? When you heard or saw that it had occurred to him or any of the Serbian radicals, that because someone called us this name or those names, we would press and sue the printed media or one of the editors and owners of that newspaper. It was done by others, like Covic, that process I think, Mrs. Radeta, that is not yet finished, Caneta Zappca. In that case, watch miracles, when he was your favorite, and now he who owes the most money to the printed media in Serbia, Cane Frog got that verdict in the case of Seselj-Cana Frog, the king of the tobacco mafia, when President Seselj was not present. It was done by a yellow judge, Danko Lausevic, who had a green light, a signal, to do it for political reckoning. The SRS has never been in such a way with any political account, because the goal of our programme and our political action is to fight for the freedom of public words and thinks that anyone can say what they think is right from the political point of view or the concept of that programme and the idea that someone advocates. It's the only way we can say that we have an advanced and democratic society that wants to develop. This way, to replace the tycoons Cana Žabac, Miskovic, Beko and others, and to dictate to the media what they will do, to ban interviews, to unequivocally establish in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through the facts presented by Mr Todorovic for weeks, that Bojan Kristo stole Belgrade Airport, that the media only wrote about it because it was brought out by the SRS through arguments and facts. You're telling us now -- the next time, as much as tomorrow or the day after, we're talking about those who rob Serbian citizens, who abuse the law, who don't pay taxes, who fire workers, who abuse such a labour law, who were changed to the harm of workers a few days ago, who rob farmers, who take possession of huge land agricultural land, especially in Vojvodina, and we say that criminals, that they are thieves, are not forbidden words in our Business, and these are really the right expressions for those who do this, and the people are increasingly living, and then journalists who report from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot write that. For what? Because it has not been proven, Serbian radicals have already said. When did Serbian radicals lie? When we talked about someone that he stole, that he did everything he did, that we didn't have any proof of it? Excuse me, please, not just those books, thousands and tens of thousands of pages that he printed in his books, Vojislav Seselj, but the books we own, so-called. White books of crime that someone was about to publish, such as the mentioned Vukic, a 10,000-page book for the mobsters Hamovic and Lazarevic, and, behold, he did not publish. Because it's a system of making business with tycoons and with those we first branded as people who destroy Serbian society, which are, in the right sense, the words of the Serb society's cancer, which are those who deal with crime and corruption, who buy politicians, who do everything to make innocent people rot in dungeons, which don't matter how people choose MPs, whether they're elected on this list or that list. Everything for them represents money and everything can be bought. Oh, he can't. No honor, no morals, no dignity, no fact that we are determined to fight against everything that this law represents, and that is to stifle freedom of thought and freedom and normal political action. Because in one political system, as it is in Serbia, which is very fragile with democratic processes, we saw what happened last year, as the electoral will was broken. We cannot expect that the government, which was ready to steal the citizens' electoral will, will pass a law that will promote European processes and will promote freedom of thought and public words.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24345	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic. The time available for the parliamentary group is eight minutes. National MP Zoran Krasic is the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24346	I think at first we need to give some very important information to the public. I think the first thing that matters is that what the government is trying to do to amend the Public Information Act is something that's contrary to Article 10. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights. The freedom of expression guaranteed by all Europeans is cruelly violated. In that inspired speech by the proponents and representatives of this law, we heard something that would require someone to warn him that he had made some findings that were absolutely not true. The boundaries of freedom do not determine any law. The constitution guarantees certain freedoms, and only in exceptional cases does the law regulate a way of achieving some freedom, making sure that the central restriction is the same freedom of another person. But what's it worth? What is worth saying, what is worth writing, when the National Assembly and this Hall is not a place to talk, where arguments would be made, and as a result of reasonable reasoning, there is a regulation, but is essentially a political arena, where 126, or one more, represents absolute truth. So we had a chance to hear a few months ago, what you guys are drilling, what you're using some argument, is 126, we can do anything. There used to be 70 votes enough for that, so the one sitting in that seat where you're sitting, said he was able with 70 votes to declare the globe a quarter. It is illusory to talk about this bill when it comes to lack of constitutional and legal basis. It is illusory to defend journalists, it is illusory to defend the editors in charge, it is illusory to defend the founders of the means of public information when we all know that for one simple lunch you can get what article you want. That's how, by the birth of an only child, I got my own brother in the media. Of course, I don't intend to take it out on anyone, it's not my wish, it's not my obligation, I don't have the right to do it, but I want to draw attention to our public-- the only honest answer we could hear in these two days about these two laws came from the G17 plus parliamentary group. They have made it very precise, open and clear – it is necessary to change this law in order to preserve the status, integrity and authority of Euro-Atlantic integration promoters, in order to preserve the authority of those who tell us that Europe is beautiful, as Europe is increasingly beautiful and cuddly, that the European standard is 70,000 companies in a blockade, that the European standard is 300 and a few billion blockades, that the European standard is 20,000 citizens on the street each month, that the European standard is a maximum pension or an average pension of 12, 13, 15,000 dinars – these are European standards and it should be preserved by this bill. This bill should create a new monopoly. One monopoly is damaged, a monopoly of media tycoons, and now it is necessary to achieve another monopoly – to earn Miskovic, Gilas, Shaper, B92 and all others. As an individual, I can fight – how? I'm not looking. How? I don't buy products that are advertised to B92, because I don't want to finance the destruction of my country, because I don't have a spare, but an ordinary citizen isn't able to protect himself like that. It's not. It takes a new monopoly, and it's being made by this bill. Politics, freedom of expression and something like social value that must be protected – here is just an excuse, because the law on public information only comes into the question of freedom of expression, and according to these changes and additions, here is the question of status, founding capital, liability, punishment, etc. This law is essentially out of luck. He's come up on the wrong grounds. In 2002, someone took money from Americans through an attorney's office to make a bill. That lawyer's office criticized the draft, that they did everything wrong. Then the government of Zoran Zivkovic went one step further, so it mutilated him even more and we have this kind of public information law. This contribution to mutilating freedom of expression is immeasurable. You know, everyone who votes for changes and additions to this law, you vote – to make Miskovic richer, to make Stanko Subotić richer, to make Gilas richer, to get the concentration of a concentrated media space anyway, where Euro-Atlantic integration policy is used only as an excuse for some individuals to raise huge funds. This is the state where citizens finance banks through commissions. This is a country where tax citizens fund banks, which have given money to this country to bridge the budget deficit. This is wonderland. There's a connection here. Let me remind you. Somewhere in the second half of 2002, by March 2003, the biggest enemy of the government, Zoran Djindjic, was Mladjan Dinkic. That's when the yellow media and how they used it. Now he's got interference and control in those media. I'm not sure he's fighting with someone who's public, so he's supposed to be contesting something. Is it possible, in addition to so many violations of dignity, to see almost every person in Serbia, that the direct cause for these changes is one man and one woman – one man who went to the front page of some newspapers and one woman whose underage child appeared in the newspaper. What about other people's underage children? You're using that as an excuse for her fraternizing to take it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24347	MP, the time available for your parliamentary group has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? In the account of the Messenger of the people, Balint the Pastor, and the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24348	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak before the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians to put forward my views on the Proposal for a Law on Culture. We consider this very significant law, unfortunately, to remain in the shadow of this second proposed law on amendments and additions to the Information Act. The Law on Culture is a very important law and we are very pleased that it has reached the agenda of the National Assembly and we hope that it will be adopted by emergency procedure in July. I said earlier that this law is very important. It's important for a number of reasons. First of all, according to some opinions and considerations, the measure of civilization of one society, one state is among other things – what kind of law on culture there is in the country and how the country is treated according to culture in one country. Not an example, according to UNESCO alone, that state can be considered a civilised country, which at least 1% of the budget stands out to fund culture. Another reason why we consider this to be a very significant law is that the laws that regulate this area now apply from 1992 and 1998. It is about laws that simply in 2009 cannot meet current needs and are not sufficiently modern, i.e. they travel in a way towards cultural development in Serbia and simply do not take into account modern trends in culture. As far as the proposed law on culture is concerned, it's been done for a long time. We all know that the drafting of this proposal began even during the term of office of the last government, but with joy we can conclude that this proposed version of the cultural law is much better than some previous versions that have been in circulation in previous years. This bill undoubtedly contributes to democratisation in culture, creating modern legal frameworks. Of course, the fact that cultural life will be in Serbia, how culture will function, does not depend primarily on what the law on culture is, but it is certainly significant from a legal point of view, from a formal point of view. It is very good that this law has not forgotten the AP Vojvodina, which provides for the powers of Vojvodina and in this sense the decentralisation of this bill is good. As far as minority issues are concerned, i.e. issues of regulation of the culture of minority communities in this bill, I must say that we within the Hungarian national community had two public discussions. Another 27 October 2007 on the earlier draft of the law, i.e. then the draft laws on culture, and the second public debate on June 5th 2009, when the government already adopted the bill. On this condition, we have asked the public debates for the opinion of the heads of institutions that are important for the duchy Hungarians, we have asked for the opinion of both artists and those who we believe are much better acquainted with this issue and know what should be improved in the proposal for a law on culture. We have formulated these remarks in the light of amendments to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and have held talks with representatives of the Ministry of Culture on these amendments in the past weeks. This law is also important because it is indicative and under this law, the laws on theatre, cinematography, publishing, museums, archives, etc. will be passed for the next months and years. So it's very important that this law meets the current needs, and when I say it should meet the current needs, then I also think that it should take into account the specificities of the culture of minority communities to the right extent. We know from practice that the law on culture is not passed every year, so it would be good for this framework to be really good. This law defines the general interest in culture and regulates conditions for the functioning of subjects in culture. These are the two most significant topics that regulate this bill. It provides for the establishment of a national cultural council, which is very important. It is good that a changed solution has been made in relation to earlier drafts of this law and that the National Assembly will appoint members of the National Council for Culture on a proposal from the Government, and this will not be done by the Government, as it was according to some earlier versions of the previous Government of the Law on Culture. The government will bring a culture development strategy, and as a mandatory element of this strategy, it is to define strategic directions for improving cultural creation and cultural expression of members of national minorities, which is very important for us. It is also good that projects, i.e. competitions, will be announced by 1 October of each year for the current year. So, in some ways, security will be introduced in the financing of culture and important projects from culture. As far as cultural subjects are concerned, cultural institutions and other entities are well regulated in a very good way. We will have cultural institutions of national importance, associations in culture, foundations, borrowings, companies. I would like to underline that it would be very important to get into the assembly procedure as soon as possible of the draft law on funds, foundations and liabilities, because the law was passed more than 20 years ago and in no way corresponds to the current needs. As for other subjects, this law regulates the position and status of independent artists, prominent artists, prominent cultural experts, independent culture experts and cultural associates. It is also very important that the law regulates the possibility of granting the status of artists who contributed to national culture. These are the artists who made a great contribution to national culture. These are some positive sides of the law. Now I'd go to some disadvantages. We've been trying to correct these shortcomings in co-operation in some way with the ministry. We have tabled seven amendments, and we hope that these amendments will be adopted, because they would contribute to more precise regulation of certain parts of this law, particularly those related to the culture of national minorities or national communities. First of all, it's certainly good that it's in Article 23. The bill provides that when the institution of culture is founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government in order to preserve and develop national and ethnic specificities of members of national minorities, an opinion of the relevant national council of the national minority is previously obtained. It's a step ahead of the law that's now in force. If it were to remain this way, it would be a step back from the practice that exists in Vojvodina five years ago. We believe that our amendment aimed at this should be accepted: we believe that national councils of national minorities should be given the opportunity to establish institutions. That's what no one is defending them with this bill, because any legal person can establish an institution of culture. We believe that it should be possible for the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the local self-government unit to transfer the founding rights of certain cultural institutions to the national council of national minorities. The National Council of National Minorities is the highest body of the cultural self-government of a particular national minority and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we believe that members of national minorities should be allowed the possibility that, through legally elected representatives, they can exercise founding rights in those institutions of culture that are of great importance to the relevant national community. Such a solution exists in Vojvodina for five years. I would like to make an example of the Centre for Culture of the Hungarians, based in Senta, and such cultural institutions also have national communities of Slovakia, Croatia, Russia and some other national communities. These national councils exercise founding rights together with the AP Vojvodina in relation to these seduced cultures. The exercise of founding rights means that they make a proposal for the directors of these institutions, they make proposals for members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of these institutions. If we did not adopt this amendment, it would mean a step back to the practice that has existed in Vojvodina for five years. That is why we believe, given the fact that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the rights of national minorities should not be reduced, that these amendments should certainly be adopted. We have given four amendments that would regulate this issue in detail. It would be important for national councils to have the opportunity to determine which institutions are of particular importance for a particular national community. As for the other groups of our amendments, they refer to artists, the status of prominent artist and prominent culture expert, on the one hand. On the other hand, our amendments target one solution that would allow a member of a particular national minority, an artist, to gain the status of an artist who has made a top contribution to national culture or culture of the national minority. You, Mr. Minister, know very well that among the members of the national minorities there are prominent artists. We also consider these artists, above all, who belong to a number of smaller national communities, may not be able to contribute to national culture to the extent that artists who belong to the Serb people or national minorities who are outnumbered or stronger. The creation of artists belonging to national minorities can also be important for a particular national minority. That is why we believe, I will not give these examples, because I am sure that as many examples as Mr Bradic could indicate how much I could list those artists belonging to a national community in Serbia, but their creativity is of great importance to the entire country, not just for a particular national community. We therefore believe that national councils of national minorities should be given the opportunity to propose artists for the status of prominent artist or prominent expert in culture, on the one hand, or for the status of artists who made a top contribution to national culture or to some national minority culture. I just said that this bill is better than some previous versions that the culture of national minorities mentioned only in two places. This law is much better, this version of the proposal, but we think we could consider this law to be good without any reserves, only if these amendments were accepted. On the other hand, I would like to point out at the end of my presentation that we view the culture of national minorities as part of the culture and cultural wealth of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that all the authorities and Serbia, both the AP and local self-government should take this into account. This fact should be considered in everyday life. I mean, above all, to stop the practice that is unfortunately present in some archives, in some museums across the Republic of Serbia, where cultural wealth, museum exhibits, are conditioned members of national communities not treated in a way that we would like it to be. I just want to point out this problem and hope the Ministry of Culture takes care of it. It would be very good if not only the Ministry of Culture considered the culture of the national minorities part of the cultural wealth of the Republic of Serbia, but also to be viewed by all cultural institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. I hope that our amendments will be adopted, and I hope that this law on culture will be passed by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24349	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the NS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday our representative of the government, responds to remarks that such an important law is passed by emergency procedure, said that the law is long under consideration, and that it is only an emergency procedure, in order for the law to be passed as soon as possible, and a few hours after that, we received amendments from the Government to the bill. Mr. Minister, the poor government has been preparing a bill for a long time, and when it comes to an emergency procedure in the assembly procedure, it sits down immediately and writes amendments to the proposal. I think it's a shame for every government that writes amendments to its bill and that it's a shame for every ruling majority when it has to write amendments to the bill of law of those that it has singled out to run an unmistakable entire assembly work. This is an emergency procedure. You weren't ready for this law at all. You acted on the orders of perhaps only one minister who felt threatened because he was at war with the media. There's power in his hands. He'll be able to ban the media now, shut them down. You've transferred the media's responsibility to commercial crimes, asked them to have money in their account, since you're already advertising them in advance, so they're going to need money to pay fines, rigorous and dragonous, much more than maximum penalties for economic offenses. What you are now predicting by this law will be the most difficult form of economic crime, since none of the others are provided for such high sentences, since for all abuses in the economy, for tycoon privatisation, for robbery and kidnapping there are no such high penalties. Let me just quote you a little bit, Mr. Minister:If someone, leading with the elaborate plan of the applicant and the creators of the ugly public words, put everything on their side today, and tomorrow they will be in a position to make all the sacrifices of the same ugly words, it is most important for them to get through today, to grumble. In order for them to grumble today, to continue after the same thing tomorrow, to spit, to ugly, to violate the right to privacy, to assume innocence, to preserve dignity, to commit journalistic attention, today it is important for them to take cover behind the European Convention, beyond its 10th point. It is necessary to call their freedom of speech everything existing laws call punitive, and ethics inadmissible, and lies and slander, and an attack on privacy, and an attack on the right to pronounce a murderer, a thief, such as none, until the court proves it. Today, in order to win over the opportunity to defend that practice, they need to be served with both right and wrong, by all means. They're doing well today, as they've always done, just using those means, so far as it goes. What about the one in the media business who wants to serve legally and humanly correct means and by building their careers, but also the whole profession and the social environment? Let them do so, Mr. Minister. But what about those who want to do their job differently? What is it for those who want to express their views and opinions, even though they disagree with the ruling majority, although they are not according to standards, norms, the odds of the ruling majority? How can you defend those who from now on write as you wish? How can you remind people that they have found protection in the European Convention? Well, where are they gonna find it? In this poor Serbia? Who protects them here, not from you, but from this minister who is now protected by this law? Who protected our private banks, and insurance companies, and so many factories that were shut down and the country that went to nothing? Who protected the reputation, morale, the dignity of an ordinary Serb citizen? Who stopped Serbs from feeling humiliated as the worst nation in the world? Who's protecting them? That's awesome. What law? What law has provided three meals today in Serbia for each family? No, it's just a matter of making sure that someone doesn't accidentally say something wrong about some public heir while he's taking a bath. So what, when the bath is closed the door and the window. Don't act, don't sing, don't do politics, now it's not supposed to be written about. No, he's the one to write about. I'll give you examples here of what the European Convention, what the Court of Human Rights says about us politicians, to see how much it defends us. Almost nothing, because we took that job. You wanted to be a minister, what do you want to be protected by the laws? Protect yourself, Minister. When you're in the bathroom, don't be photographed in some rude position. Be alone in the bathroom. Take a bath like a man and let them take a picture of you. When you're not singing, when you're not acting, when you're not a minister, don't do what you can't do in the paper. Why don't you go to the paper if you did it? You're the minister. A little bit of God. Ministers of the gods are in Serbia. There's a black car waiting for you, maybe even a blinded one. We'll still protect someone from making any judgments about you. Well, I'd like to have the right to pass judgment on another, as others say about me. I mean, you're a bad minister and you called me a representative yesterday. That you insulted me, all generations before me and generations after me. You don't care. By causing my anger, I couldn't tell the President of the Assembly you forbid him to speak. It's your judgment on me. You think I'm a representative here. You're comparing me to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It's your court, it's not a felony. I'm just telling you to raise your attention. Marsilio of Padova said in the 12th century that courts exist to protect us from the will of judges and masters. What did you turn courts into today? In the bill, you say - the court will bring punishment, or whatever you say. You do not say, "The judgment will judge, but you will say, "The judgment will punish you." There are no courts to pronounce punishment, but to judge, to punish, and to release. Let me continue my education a little bit and make a buckle. The Court finds that the facts on which the opinion is based prove to be before the court, but that no evidence is made of a busy and expressed certain value court. According to this criterion, there are, for example, two crimes in national laws, and this is an insult that incriminates opinions in the form of claims, attitudes, qualifications, and truths are largely not determined and proved, unlike slander that incriminates false facts. Falseness, lies as an element of being a criminal part of the slander of the sea and, in our right, always prove themselves. Although the opinion, which is in fact a value court, position, view, which is very often a personal assessment of its author's event and situation, the problem of any kind, is not subject to proof of the truthfulness, or untrueness, such a check is subject to the facts on which the opinion is based. The court provides special protection with opinions, criticisms and views expressed against public officials, even when they are done with strong or excessive expressions, bringing their justification in context of the objectives that the critics want to achieve. Controversial opinions should be made public and protected, especially in pre-election campaigns, when allowed against the government and political opponents. Criticisms should have a much wider line and be tolerated. In the interest of society, the media must not only tolerate itself, but also recognise the right to so-called. well-intentioned mistakes. The Court of Journalists and publishers who have a legitimate objective, and have published information of public interest, have made reasonable efforts to determine the truthfulness of the facts, introduces amnesty of responsibility, even when it is found that the facts are false. That's what it says in that convention that we want to hide behind. According to the Court's views, the defence of the complainants and the determination of his good intentions excludes the need to prove the truth, to defend the evidence of truth. The media court leaves the right to the necessary room for error. The undivided opinion of theory and practice has also been apostrophe of the court many times, that freedom of dissemination of information and ideas is of the utmost importance for the political life and quality of democracy of every country. It is simply unimaginable to hold free and democratic elections without truly achieving this freedom. This freedom enables the criticism of the authorities, forcing them to work legally, in quality and in general interest, and not to violate guaranteed human rights and freedoms, or build a legal state. The Court, affirming freedom and the dissemination of information and the importance of its role, stated in one decision – freedom of expression is one of the essential fundamental elements of democratic society and one of the basic conditions for its progress and the development of each individual. Freedom of dissemination of information and ideas is a logical clue, a continuation of freedom of information, especially when it comes to electronic and printed media. Only received, information may be disseminated by its delivery or transfer to the public. As there are legal entities dealing only with receiving or only spreading, broadcasting, printing of information, the view of the Court is that these legal entities should cooperate or not cooperate fully autonomously, without intervention or any State interference. Freedom of communication, dissemination of information and ideas is very broad and enjoys protection, even when "received face" or at first glance, it is said that publication of such information should not be allowed, and if it is published, it should be subject to penalties. The court disagreed with the decisions of the national courts of France in two cases. One of them is Isorni. In the press, the complainants published an ad in a national daily newspaper to rehabilitate General Petten. For the publication of the ad, the national criminal court found them guilty and obliged them to pay symbolic cash amounts. The court has repeatedly discussed the relationship of freedom of expression towards the problems of racism, xenophobia, negatial and anti-Semitic statements, the justice of Nazism etc. Unlike national courts, however, the court of justice has embarked on an analysis of the advertising text. Finding that the complainants in the text distanced themselves from punishment by pointing to Nazi atrocities and persecuting both German power and barbarism. In this judgment, the Court also confirmed its already adopted views, that the justice of Nazi policy should not enjoy judicial protection under Article 10, but the reasoning of the judgment resulted in the Court’s finding that the advertising text of the complainants did not mention it, i.e. leaves out the historical fact that Marshal Petten has made a conscious contribution, especially to the responsibility he bears for the persecution and deportation of tens of thousands of Jews in France. This court did not consider the case unilaterally, but took into account other circumstances. It is also pointed out to a part of the effort that each country must put into an open and peaceful debate on its own history. The fact that the authors of the commercials are members of legal entities, not illegal associations, has also been established. The court further stressed the seriousness of the criminal conviction, given the existence of other means of intervention and dissuasion, especially through civil instruments. The freedom of the press is freedom which is not listed as an integral part of freedom of information, and is not part of any other freedom guaranteed by the Convention. In comparable national legal systems, sometimes we find ourselves as a separate freedom guaranteed by the Constitution, and much more often regulated by information laws in general or even special laws. The 10th freedom of the press explicitly mentions neither as freedom of the media at all, nor as freedom of the printed media. But the life of national legislation, on the one hand, and the importance of this kind of media for democracy and democratic processes, on the other hand, a large number of cases with printed media as entities or objects of dispute, conditioned that the court established and passed a large number of judgments, creating a very rich precedent right for the area of printed media. The court has extended the number of freedoms established by the Convention to another, very justified. A number of judgments were passed by the court by a series of principles and rules binding on national courts, which give privileged, special status to the press. This is the status of the printed media that has been fought by the reality seen in the fact that in our country, as well as in many other countries, the most numerous victims of government, because of the use of freedom of expression, individuals from the ranks of journalists and publishers. It is not a small number of journalists who have discovered and told the truth in the newspaper at the highest price – life. Printed media is the guardians, but also the creators of public opinion, especially in the field of politics. The most important principles, attitudes and recommendations, the press court has inaugurated their freedom in the rulings in the Lingens and Torgerson cases, which does not mean that in many other cases the court has not dealt with the freedom of the press. The Court thus stated in the Lingens case, in relation to freedom of the press – although the press must not exceed the established limits, especially with regard to protecting the reputation of others, it is still obliged to publish information and ideas on issues discussed on the political scene, as well as those concerning other sectors of public interest. Not only does the press have the task of publishing such information and ideas, but the public has the right to receive them. The court's position on the Torgerson verdict is particularly important for the freedom of the press. The journalist based his article on public opinion which makes up voices and claims of type – she said, therefore, without the personified sources of knowledge and research. If, on the basis of such sources of knowledge, a journalist is not required to seek proof, to establish the truthfulness, or to carry out any evidence in this regard, qualifications and claims which mean a value assessment. In this judgment, the court says that the requirement of truthlessness is unreasonable and even impossible because the printed media would be difficult to publish if they had an obligation to publish only fully proven facts. The protection of the quality of the proper exercise of the guaranteed right of freedom of expression is ensured in the Convention itself, by the provisions of Article 17, which bear the title of the prohibition of abuse of rights and reads: "Nothing in this Convention can be interpreted as meaning the right of any State, group or person to engage in any action or exercise an act aimed at repealing any of those rights and freedoms or at repealing any of those rights and freedoms or to restrict them to a greater extent than that provided for by the Convention". Therefore, Article 17 prohibits abuse of rights and states as holders of power in relation to an individual but also an individual in relation to individuals and other entities. When it comes to the forms in which national states intervene in limiting the use of freedom of expression, on a scale the same as the most dangerous court singles out censorship. Under censorship, official control of the content of information in the press, radio and TV shows, film, public, daily, periodic publications, books, which precedes their publication and is carried out for preventive purposes, in order to eliminate harmful content by the actual or assumed interests of the censor. Censuru is often conducted by states or political organisations. It's what churches used to do. Censorship certainly prevents the provision of information to those who wish and have the right to receive it. In practice, censorship measures are also seen in terms of handling a press call, by prior obtaining a permit from a state authority or body or by threatening to abolish it. This law is full of threats. After censorship, as a very dangerous and devastating act, not only for the use of the right of freedom and expression, but also for democracy in general, the greatest danger to the full and proper enjoyment of the right to freedom of expression comes from criminal judgments which result in the receipt and release of information being advertised guilty and sentenced to fines or prison sentences. The devastating impact of criminal convictions with convictions and punishments on journalists is not crucial to what is the height and what is the type of punishment. Even small, symbolic punishments have the role of censors, better to say, refer to self-censorship. This negative fact of criminal cases in this area is also indicated by the court when it says – although the punishment given to the author could not prevent him from expressing himself, it was nevertheless some kind of censorship that would most likely prevent him from giving such criticism in the future. In the same way, this kind of punishment will likely interfere with the media to carry out their task as information transferors and public opinion keepers. The amount of fines usually followed by substantial court costs, when their amount does not monitor the property of a convicted journalist and calls into question its financial survival, may constitute intervention in the area of freedom of expression. In Oberschlik's case, a journalist convicted by the Austrian national court of crime by a politician, for commenting in a newspaper article on his speech and calling him an asshole. The court analysed and appreciated the whole article, including that the politician's speech was obviously intended to be provocative, and thus to cause severe reactions. In view of this character and the nature of speech, even though the presentation's words can be viewed as pragmatic, they do not therefore constitute an unjust personal attack, as the author gave an explanation that was objectively understandable and based on the politician's speech. The subject of 'Lingens v Austria' was freedom of expression and the right to the reputation of a high-ranking state official of Austria. After the held elections in 1975, Bruno Kraski was elected Federal Chancellor. After the election and the victory of Bruno Krajski on the same, journalist Lingens published two of his articles in the paper, which highlighted the criticism of the federal Chancellor. Critics referred to Krajski's political definitions. It was written that Kraski announced a coalition with a party whose president had a Nazi past. The journalist pointed to numerous attempts by the Chancellor to provide political assistance to the Nazis. By giving the court the political behaviour of Krajski, the journalist has also defined it as immoral and inappropriate and it demonstrates the opportunism of the lowest rank. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24351	Twenty minutes, the time at your disposal as president of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. The time you have left is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24352	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, I have come to the floor to appease both my conscience and my conscience of the DSS, to try again for the last seconds of those seven minutes, to convince first of all DS MPs, whom I consider to be the greatest responsibility for the ruling majority's actions, not to vote this and this undemocratic law, I would say the monster of the law, one complete and non-democratic vomit. Yesterday, my colleague from the DSS Mr. Aligrudić and I made it very clear that, of course, the DSS has nothing to do with the exorcism of all the prosaced, defamation, lies from the media, but that this is not prevented by such a law, but that there are much smarter, wiser and more justified means to do so. This law is not only undemocratic in its structure, it is adopted by a non-democratic procedure. We got the text of the law. The text of the law was all entitled to submit amendments, and they did so, and then the government submitted six amendments to eight members of the law, i.e. The eighth member, when it comes into force, is not disputed, therefore six amendments have been submitted to seven members of the law offering a completely new solution. We had no right to write amendments to that new practical text of the law because there was no more space. I saw the amendments five minutes before the session started and there's no room for amendments anymore. I understand that one or two amendments are submitted to the text of the 200-member law, which is fine, but you have practically submitted a completely new text of the law and independently of what kind of law you have practically prevented MPs from putting amendments to the new text. There are completely new things that are, besides everything, completely out of my mind and I'm not a lawyer, but out of every legal logic. Watch what is said in the amendment two - the court will, within 12 hours of submitting a proposal from the public prosecutor, so the public prosecutor, not the court's decision, will, in accordance with the law, tell the founder of the measure of temporary suspension of the exercise of the public hearing until the judicial end of the procedure laid down in Article 5. So it's enough for the D.A. to initiate the procedure. Come on, what might end at the end of the trial be punished by some responsible journalist or editor, but do you realize you're exorcising hundreds of people on the street? You're closing the public hearing after a brief procedure, without a trial. So how many proceedings in the judiciary begin, and it is found that he who is guilty is not guilty shall be set free. No, you're in for a mistrial. The fact that the trial can and wants to last for three years doesn't interest you. In three years, you won't be in power, so you don't care. So, once again, I urge you to withdraw this law for all the reasons that have been laid down, to solve a common problem, but to solve it in a civilized way, not with a hiducio like this. I'm afraid I don't say the words that are on top of my tongue, so I better not qualify the law anymore. I just have so much time to say something else. Mr. Bradic, you have offered us one system law at this session, which you have undoubtedly worked hard on. That law is the law. Maybe he's missing. Something's gonna get better, but it's the law. You've worked on it a lot. But you will be remembered for a coin that will undoubtedly come into force, called Bradic's Law. It's this information law. You're going to enter a not-so-famous group, let's say, in time, in the '90s, the famous Jowin law. It was the famous high school law, not to convince you of that law now. After that, it was Wolf's Law. There were different laws. You will be remembered for being used by Bradić's law, which will be the first next authority, whoever did it, believe me, with pleasure cancels. There's some justice here, Mr. Braddick. When you choose a chair between cheek and armchair, that's how it ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24353	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 83? The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24354	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have entered into politics from culture, and I will say only a few words about the law on culture, because this law, I assure you, is necessary every day, to bring it into an emergency procedure. The urgency in this case, as in other cases we're talking about, is official, not non-democratic procedure. I'm a director, and the word I use is that it's the one who wants to bring order. Introducing order in the field of culture is not a simple job, it's not an easy job, it's not a one-term job, it's not a one-man thing, even if the law on culture is named after my last name. So, the law on culture has been going on for more than 10 years. We say the past law was 92. I am sure that this bill, with all the well-intentioned remarks, amendments, should be adopted, so that there should be no waiting for the next 17 years, and in the meantime we all look together at the devastation of a cultural substance, the downturn of criteria in cultural creation, the problems in the protection of cultural heritage that we can, of course, realize many other things that are the subject of this modern, European law that cares about what is the development of culture, but also cares about the basic values that culture, of course, has, bear and represent. In that sense, I will be very prepared to accept in the coming days a large number of amendments to this law, which has already been passed. I'm sure these amendments will contribute to a better quality law on culture, to the satisfaction of all those who deal with culture and those whose culture is part of everyday life, therefore, to all those who are its users. Culture has great power. Culture and creativity are something that certainly our country can do better, more adequately to represent in many jobs that are not only work of art, but also jobs of diplomacy, affairs of politics and economy. As for this second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information, it seems to me that we have spoken much more, but let us use this small sum of our conversations, of your presentations, to say a few of my views which will not be a direct answer to the questions you have asked because, of course, we have enough time, but rather questions that return to the essence of certain views that were already in the initial presentation before us. A friend of mine, a director, wrote in his column today that just as there is no love in the pornographic work, there is no truth in the tabloids. It's a nice metaphor and a funny picture, but the truth is that every day, passing by those newsstands, we find texts on the front pages that really question whether or not it's true, or whether it's just a sensation that serves to sell that list – hit a woman with an axe, Bravo, Serbian, shot a woman in... . The failed banks, the Fuhrer, Goebbels. A few days ago visiting a minister was a delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of Israel. On that same day, a title came out on the front page of a daily newspaper, as I should call it. What if this minister, in case he wasn't friends with the state of Israel, to explain what kind of state someone who was a member of the government could be so appointed, to say that what they're writing isn't true, to explain it? It's certainly not a picture we want to represent, and a picture of this country and a picture of culture. That's why I advocate this law, because certain things shouldn't be part of our public. That's how we make another or different Serbia. I don't want to talk about this Serbia on this occasion. It has been said recently, a parliamentary group and the president of the parliamentary group has called on the culture minister to civilise the media, and that is a very good instruction. I figured it out well-intentioned. I thought it was just the wind that gave the sails of passing one of these laws, or changes in the Public Information Act, which allow certain things in the media sphere to develop exactly the way I just told you. Coming here to the congregation I had very good expectations that we would all agree on some things together, that we would put these things that we agree very clearly to express here and that what we like or don't like in our practice in some way in a certain context. When I say that, I think it's necessary for these images to simply withdraw from our public, because these images don't just talk about us foreign citizens, they speak for younger generations, they open a dam for everything that can happen in the next period. However, here in the congregation, paradoxically, I have heard some things that have not encouraged me at all. I've heard about myself that I'm Barry, from one MP, I've heard that I'm going to be chased to God, and that's what some media representatives keep telling us, that the problem isn't in the media, that the problem is in politics. Someone was talking about it yesterday, I think. So, gentlemen of Parliament, please one thing - let us civilise this House. Please, because then we're all going to have a lot more arguments to talk about some things that are our obligation to all those people that we represent here. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of all that has been said, I urge you once again to consider, together, a legislative proposal to supplement the Public Information Act, in the form in which, while respecting the changes and additions, it is presently before us today. Let us certainly bear in mind the need to preserve the right to freedom of speech, as well as all other rights that would be compromised by the abuse or unethical and illegal use of this right. To make this proposal, since the Law on Public Information sensitive, as much as we do for the right of the media industry, as much as for the rights of others in that chain, above all the users of these services and of the entire public. Let us not forget that we are in these places for the protection of the rights of all, not just individual categories. This will also protect the media profession itself and media followers, but also ethical, legal and civilizational standards. It was precisely these premises that set out to make this proposal. Surely there isn't a black time when they'll have to stick stamps that writing and reporting is life-threatening, or a time where newspapers will come out as clean paper so they don't make mistakes, and electronic media will just play music, too, so they won't be wrong, so that they can hear and read these days. But it is time for all together, and especially responsible in the media, editors first and foremost, to take into account the Law on Public Information and the Ethical Code of Journalists, but also other laws and to study them well and keep them in mind in the performance of our duties, because legality and ethics must be conditio son qua non of our reality, not its exception, nor a matter of goodwill, understanding, vision or any other mental process that implies volunteering and improvisation. Because of those why we are here, our readers, our viewers, listeners, who are as many users of our services, as well as potential targets of such unverified, superficial and impromptu quasives and those media followers who want to work on high professional standards because of the profession itself, but also because of the preservation of civilizational flows, to which the most fierce critics of this proposal are called today, and until yesterday, their biggest offenders, which shows exactly the number of applications filed against them. The news, for example, that someone killed someone before the court found out, is not really news, because the news has to be true, objective and timely, and this structure certainly isn't. That certainly isn't news, because the material facts that this statement determines and conveys, in fact, we don't know either us, or the journalist, or the editor, or the founder of the media, or the court itself, otherwise the court case would be expended. This is an answer to the presumption of innocence, but also to the obligation of journalistic attention on two members who already exist in the Information Law – the embezzlement, both ethically and legally, which we claim to protect, protecting the right to this non-faith. The news can only be that someone has been arrested on suspicion that he killed someone, in the course of a murder trial, that someone has been charged with killing someone, in a word of news or other kind of media information, especially in such a sensitive area in which the protection of someone's right to assume independence, to preserve dignity or privacy, has to paint reality and must consistently respect legal but ethical norms of profession. Penalties, which we advocate to only sharpen, our legislation already knows a lot. With this proposal, we have not made any meaningful papers in this regard. I'll give you just a few examples to confirm that. The culture ministry has received several first-degree verdicts over the past year. Verdicts: "Nacional" – publication of pornographic content, which could endanger the development of minors, 100,000 dinars. This list no longer exists, not because of the Ministry of Culture, but because of some other things; "Kurr" – the publication of photographs of a young man who has fallen into a bear cage, which could endanger the development of minors, 40,000 dinars; "Pres" – the publication of a photograph of a young man who has fallen into a bear cage on the front page, which could endanger the development of minors, 40,000 dinars; "Kurr" – the publication of photographs of a dead female on the front page, 120,000 dinars, etc. These penalties are indeed symbolic, and they only encourage editors and owners, founders of these messages, to act as they behave and, if these penalties are not respectable, they will not give any result, nor, as our honourable MPs say, will civilize the media. So here today, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you who are chosen to protect the rights of all, as well as to us who are here to propose legal frameworks for the protection of these rights, to look at things from this angle, and to bring an act that will allow us not to violate the rights of one by protecting the rights of another, because these other rights, to privacy, on the assumption of innocence, to preserve dignity, at the obligation of journalistic attention, are no less relevant than the right to freedom of speech. We must protect them equally. We, as one of the promoters, and the second proposer, is the Ministry of Justice, which dealt with the economic and legal aspects of this proposal, and we believe, in the correctness of these formulations at the universal level, in its usefulness and well-being in the broader plan, and I urge you to take this aspect into account when deciding on the very proposal to amend and supplement this law. With law enforcement and legality in general in the field of public information, essential things stand in the same way as their application in other spheres. The laws must be created, respected, and if they cause damage, it is not appropriate to question how damaged the law breaking is, but how protected is the principle of protecting the civil and universal norms that are there to make it easier for everyone. When you punish a drunk driver, you punish him not to damage his budget, but to protect other traffickers. When it comes to the public word, let's not lose sight of it, it can have the power of the haranga, even the target of someone who's been shot, and there's absolutely no need to close their eyes and keep quiet, but that can in countless subtle ways threaten and destroy someone's life. The responsibility of the state before such phenomena is great and important. That is why this proposal, at the time of such actions by individual media, has been so restrictive to the intended criminal measures and urgent to adopt civilization, ethical and legal standards. With respect and the introduction of amendments, we will, of course, make it better and more suitable for real circumstances, which was not disputed in its creation either, but we will continue to advocate its adoption by an urgent procedure. If we could read the warning yesterday in one of the media, which came from the professional public, which warns of a direct link between sensationalist inscriptions and the increase in suicides and which starts with – remove the story from the front pages, experts appeal. So, if this and such warnings that we heard in the countless, widest, most public debates, but also the narrowest, broad informal public debates, if they are not in themselves enough and enough call to the state to urgently respond and something to make these innocent victims, which are collateral damage, protection, then something with sensitivity to feel the right measure of things is wrong. I would certainly like to draw this attention to a few moments present in the logical designs of the discussions that we have been listening to on the subject of the Amendments and Supplements Act for the last two days. Logical structures that act as if they were a fruit or a deliberate replacement of thesis or a lack of denture in the text of the proposal and a lack of insight into all the material facts in their complexity and interaction, and I will draw attention to them once again, although I know this time also requires some other answers. When it comes to this proposal, it is not necessary to lose sight of that it is really only about amendments and additions to the existing Public Information Act, and that these amendments and additions are not in any way suspended by the provisions of this law, which are certainly provided, and in the future they will provide for the freedom of public information, but the infringements of the freedom of public information are decided by the court in an urgent procedure, and legal protection and freedom by an urgent procedure. That this proposal also does not abolish a provision of the same Law on Public Information, under which no provision of this law can be interpreted and applied in a way that would result in the abolition of any right guaranteed or limited by this law to a greater extent than that prescribed. Therefore, all existing rights will be in the new amended law on public information, retained and guaranteed, but their infringement will also protect the court by an urgent procedure, and the right to the freedom of public words, and the right to it, is a measure of itself – the human rights of any individual who goes only to the border until they threaten the freedom of another individual. All of this went well and all was thought of in formulating this proposal to amend and supplement the Public Information Act. I call upon you, and I ask you, in his consideration, to vote on him, to come from all of this, and to think about all of this, not just certain aspects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24355	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24356	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104(2) regarding Article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since Article 113 prescribes that the provision of Article 104 applies to other participants in the debate, not only to the MPs. In fact, Madam Chairman, you would have to pay attention to the contents of what the minister is saying in front of the National Assembly, because when he says "he is able to civilise parliament", he, whom this parliament has chosen in that place, is something that is extremely inappropriate. Parliament cannot be civilised by someone, and this is now a political metaphor that I will express, and I am thus building myself on it, which the minister could say, but he did not, who today defends the uncivilized Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information. It cannot call for the civilization of parliament to be involved in someone who is able to pronounce here today – that this is not so serious, because it is about amendments and additions to the law, not about some new law. It is as if, for example, changes and additions to the Penal Code were the introduction of a death penalty—it would be only a change, what difference does it make? What you're doing, Mr. Bradic, is a death penalty to the media in Serbia, and you need to know that, and you know that. What I said to you yesterday, I apologize. I apologize for what I said "this isn't you". No, because this is obviously you and it's unpaved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24357	There is no violation of Article 104 and by careful reading of the stenograms you will see that the minister said "civilize", not "civilize you". I ask the People's MPs not to earn it, for I really listen with attention to all the MPs, and I listen with attention to other participants in the debate when they are as proposings here. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] So that provision 104 cannot apply, since part of the speech that was explained in the injury by MP Milos Aligrudic referred to the whole part of the minister's presentation, where he said, was instructed by one president of the parliamentary group, "civilize the media", and after the sentences you can find in the stenogram, he said "civilize parliament". (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I demand that we plead on this breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic is asking for the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Minister Nebojsa Bradic of the Assembly to be declared in the voting day, which will of course be done. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24358	Mr. Minister said one court on the law, which in this House should not be said or at least to pass without comment, a team before the Minister of Justice is there, where he should guide him, when he dares to defend the laws here or explain them, that he should at least know a little about terminology, or not to deceive the public with his own terminology. Namely, there is no low and highly threatened punishment for a journalist. I just warned you about the decisions of the European Court of Justice, where it says that minimum penalties are also a kind of censorship, as they point to the self-censorship of the one who has been punished. You told us, Minister, that the penalties prescribed are minimal and will encourage editors and journalists to act civilizedly or whatever you said. Find me a man who says for punishment that the measure of encouragement is one normal man who has read two books in the first grade of elementary school, who will tell you that punishment is pronounced to encourage one. So, at all, I doubt the intellectual abilities of whoever sent you here, and I don't think you've proven yours by stateing us some kind of free journalism pledoies here. I will leave this room dearly because it is obvious that the MPs here do not have a real competitor, especially the MPs of the opposition. I am really glad that the government has shown in full capacity what it has in store for all its staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24359	People's MP, I warn you that the abuse of the right to receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1) is uninterested whether there has been an injury that has given you the right to the word, that you do not quote a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to be injured and that you consider all of this a right to a free word. My warning is really only because this kind of offence once committed will not be turned into an act of punishment. I ask all MPs in this way not to abuse the decorative right and to advocate the free word and then to simply abuse the procedure, abuse of the right to the received word and the relationship to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the chairman who is inadmissible for someone who is decoratively seeking freedom of words, the right to opinion and the right to speak. (Milos Aligrudic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and the Proposal for a Law on Culture. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure will be obtained after we continue the session and there is room for me to give you the word per article 100. We move to a joint principled review of the 3-9rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON SARADY WITH THE INTERNATIONAL CRIME CRIME, AMENDMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CRIME SANCTIONS, SUGANISING OF ORGANISED CRIME, IMPLEMENT OF CRIME FUNDING FOR ORGANISED CRIMINAL, EXCIPATION OF THE CRIME LAWS, IMPLE OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME, CRIME OF THE CRIME OF CRIME AND FINISHING THE FUNDS AND FINISHING OF THE CRIME OF CRIMES, THE CRIMES OF THE CRIMES OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIMES, THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIMES AND OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIME OF CRIME OF CRIMES AND OF THE CRIMES AND OF THE CRIMES AND OF THE CRIMES OF THE CRIMES AND OF THE CRIMESES OF THE CRIMESCRATIONS, In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Petar Petrovic, MP Đuro Peric, MP Milica Radovic, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Nebojsa Randelovic, MP of the LDP, MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP of the NS, MP of Aleksandar Martinovic, SRS and MP Vlatko Ratkovic of the ZES parliamentary group. Before I refer the matter to the Rules of Procedure – do the motionarians want the word, MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24360	This is where the injury comes when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Now I find it more interesting to talk about this immersion than the previous one I reported for. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure that you did just before my current exposure is next. In Article 100 paragraph 3, the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the Chairman, gives a word to the MP who points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 of this article immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary group have the advantage. Before you concluded the debate, or search on the previous agenda, I reported to the electronic system a breach of the Rules of Procedure and asked for a word before you said anything. This was registered with you, which may be the deputy secretary general of the Assembly to confirm, and ultimately, it can be easily checked. You have not given me your word, you have concluded the search, you have continued to speak according to the procedure provided for by the completion of the search and the opening of the new point, in breach of the direct position of Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Look, this is so clear that I said you'd look completely ridiculous if you say -- no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because I guess you can once in 12 months allow yourself to make a mistake somewhere. There's an obvious mistake here. I'm not asking for any consequences for this. I'm just asking for one simple thing, your confession and your apology that you made a slip and that's all. If you're able to do it once, I'll congratulate you on that, and if not, after all, you'll look ridiculous, because everything I've just said here is the naked truth from the beginning to the end. The previous speaker was Tomislav Nikolic, who spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. After that, I came forward after your comment on his statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, you gave me no word, but by ignoring the signal I gave here, you concluded the search at the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24361	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your speech is living proof that you got the word. The only lie you made in the explanation is to comment on the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. I don't comment, I explain. When I finished explaining and opened the next item on the agenda, you got the word, so you were saying proof that I wasn't breaking Article 100. National MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic... (Milos Aligrudic: To plead in the voting day...) Please don't throw it away, I have it in my electronic system. (Milos Aligrudic: In voting day...) ) National MP, I ask you to pay attention to me since I am taking care of the session for mutual benefit. You're throwing -- "bad," I think I'm doing it right, because I'm working on the benefit of all of us 250. I ask you to stop throwing, because that's not good and it's forbidden to do business with a member of the Rules of Procedure. In the electronic system, two names were recorded, MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic and MP Đuro Peric. It is my duty that when I see what you have warned me about, when I see a name to say whether it is an MP or a MP who has applied to the electronic system. So, you can get word after them, or immediately if they don't want a word and you want to plead, and by getting word on whether you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure or because you want to talk about a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? People's MP Đuro Peric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24362	Here, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure again, but another provision. So this is about the position of the 6th Article 100. These provisions are bound and applied by means of a direct time series of actions. I pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you told me that there were no injuries, which, of course, was ridiculous, but about that after. In attitude six, it's... (President: I ask you to treat the President, to be careful how you behave, and to show the courtesy of the communication you require of all other MPs and of the Government's representatives yourself in this assembly. Any rude gesture will be considered a reason for warning... . What kind of gesture was that, I'm sorry? (President: National MP, this is a session that is being transferred... I know. What was the rude gesture? That's funny... (President: If I dare repeat the rude gesture that you are demonstrating, then I would hurt the Rules of Procedure, which I do not. Please explain in a decent manner what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of. You took 30 seconds away from me... (President: Messenger of the people, I have not taken anything from you. You'll have your two minutes. Here and explain the injuries to the Rules of Procedure. ( ) Since I lost a thread of what I was saying and no one can understand what is pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please allow me two minutes to explain. Paragraph 6 states that even after explaining the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, if the MP considers that the injury has been committed, he may request without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. You see, if it says - I can demand, I can only do it orally at this point, as a shop that I do directly according to your explanation, and in order to do it orally, I have to burn it, and if I say I have to say it by hearing it, and to say it is not a throw-off, but it is my insistence on voting in the day of voting on hurting the Rules of Procedure. You're telling me, don't throw it at me. Excuse me, explain to me – what technique can I do to honor Article 100 and Article 6, to draw attention to the fact that I want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Do you think I should report back to the Rules of Procedure for the injury, in which case you'd tell me it's not a violation of Rules 1 of the Rules of Procedure? So I don't see the technique, the way I can distract you that I want the Assembly to declare itself in voting day, except to throw it to you. How do you want me to write on paper and send in airplanes? What do you want me to do? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24363	Just like you did, you're saying again evidence that there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Milos Aligrudić, from the scene: And this injury? ) In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare the two injuries you pointed out. If you want to be precise, the stenogram will stand when you get the word that you are talking about injury to the Rules of Procedure and you will see that the time is standing, that a member who is an MP has pointed out that he is injured and that there is a request for a statement of the Assembly, as the Assembly will do in the day of the vote. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24364	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know today is on the agenda of the debate on laws relating to the area of criminal law. Those laws, on the one hand, represent the harmonisation of the laws in this area with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international conventions, which many have ratified in this House, while on the other hand making solutions that continue to be initiated by judicial reform, which will contribute to increasing the efficiency and improvement of the quality of the work of judicial authorities. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to introduce you to the most significant solutions contained in each of these draft laws. The law on co-operation with an international criminal court. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted on 17 July 1998 in Rome, has educated a permanent International Criminal Court that has the jurisdiction to prosecute the most serious crimes against international humanitarian law, such as genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression. In addition, the Rome Statute also established the obligation for Member States to provide for all forms of co-operation with the International Criminal Court in their national laws. By signing and ratifying the Rome Statute in 2001, our country accepted the obligation to implement that international treaty in its legal system. The International Criminal Court is based on the principle of complementarity and is created by the consent of the will of sovereign states. Since the jurisdiction of the judiciary is a subsidiary, the national judiciary has the advantage of conducting the criminal proceedings for which the court is competent, and only if there are some of the reasons specifically provided for in the Rome Statute are the proceedings before that court. Therefore, the adoption of this law is proposed in order to create a regulatory framework that would regulate the procedure for the co-operation of our country and the International Criminal Court in cases where criminal proceedings are conducted before that court. In addition, the law also contains necessary restrictions in co-operation stemming from the right of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Among the most significant solutions contained in the draft law is the principle of non-bis and Imam, or the principle of prohibition of the simultaneous conduct of the procedure. These principles exclude the possibility of the defendant of the same crimes being tried simultaneously before both the domestic court and the International Criminal Court, and also excludes the possibility of rejudicing a convicted person for the same crime, whether before the International Criminal Court or before a domestic court. The law detailed legal assistance before the International Criminal Court, and particularly the presence of representatives of the court, as well as actions that the court representative can carry out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the International Criminal Court can be extremely allowed to carry out certain activities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia with the mandatory presence of a person designated by the minister of justice. Also, when performing those actions, representatives of the International Criminal Court must not shorten or restrict the constitutional rights of Serbian citizens, as well as the rights of witnesses, artists and defendants. Likewise, when carrying out these actions, there is no way to take measures to deprive freedom or any other measure of procedural coercion. In addition, the law also regulates issues relating to the procedure carried out by the domestic authorities at the request of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Deprivement of Freedom, the determination of detention and surrender of the accused person. The bill also addresses how the International Criminal Court decisions are implemented and the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the work of this court. Law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was adopted at the end of September 2005, and entered into force on 1 January 2006. Following the entry into force of this law in January 2006, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers issued a recommendation adopting new European prison rules, and therefore it is necessary to comply with the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions with this international document. Also, the bill makes the necessary termological changes to the law to comply with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The bill also sets out the harmonisation of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions with the new laws governing the organisation and operation of judicial authorities, in particular the Law on the Regulation of Courts. In view of the fact that certain provisions of the Code on the enforcement of criminal sanctions were not fully in line with the provisions of the Criminal Code, it was necessary to make appropriate amendments to the text of the law, and in particular provisions on the execution of fines. In addition, given that more than three years have passed since the application of the Criminal Sanctions Act, some of the existing provisions that have caused problems in their application, which have been pointed out by persons employed by the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions which are directly applicable by the law, need to be amended. The most significant newspapers should highlight the provisions which specifically regulate the necessary conditions for persons who operate the offices and services in the offices of the amended and more precisely arranged work of individual services in the institutions and, above all, the services for treatment, training and employment and health care services. The provisions on the position of convicted persons are in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. It should also be pointed out in particular that the precise provisions relating to possible situations following the application of the duress to convicted persons have been amended in accordance with the recommendations and standards of the Council of Europe to prevent torture and inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment. In addition, provisions relating to the working legal status of staff in the institutions have been amended, taking into account the specificities of the operations carried out in the offices, and therefore the exceptions to the general working-law regime of civil servants and deputies are foreseen. Finally, it should also be pointed out that the provisions relating to the supervision of the work of the institute are specified. The law on the execution of a prison sentence for the crime of organized crime. The proposal for that law closes the procedure for the execution of a prison sentence for the criminal offence of organised crime, the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the procedure of the execution of the sentence, the position, or the right and obligations of convicted persons and the supervision of the execution of the sentence for these offences. The reason for adopting this law is the need to regulate the execution of prison sentences for persons convicted of organised crime. It is necessary, however, to prevent any possibility from being convicted indirectly, through other persons who have remained at large, from organising or directing criminal activities of the same or other criminal groups in order to successfully oppose organised crime. In light of the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, there is no difference in the regime of maintaining a prison sentence between persons convicted of criminal offences of organised crime and persons convicted of other crimes. It is therefore necessary to regulate in a comprehensive manner the execution of prison sentences against convicted organisers and members of the criminal group, as well as the education and organisation of special departments of existing institutions in which those persons would support prison sentences. Given the fact that only the law can provide for a special regime for the execution of prison sentences, since additional restrictions on the rights of convicted persons are being imposed, it is only possible to establish a sensitive balance between the need for society to protect itself from organised crime and the need to comply with international standards in the field of human rights condemned. First of all, this law educates the Special Department for the Penalty of Criminal Crime. I would like to remind you that the current Law on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime does not provide for a special organisational unit of the Administration for the Enforcement of Institutional Sanctions in which those persons who are legally convicted of those offences will be sentenced to prison. For these reasons, this law provides for such a department and education, and at the same time closer to its work. Also, this bill regulates the reference in a different way to the maintenance of prison sentences for organised crime offences compared to the general regime. Namely, the president of the High Court in Belgrade is responsible for the reference, which determines whether the specified conditions are met to refer to the Special Department. This means that not all persons convicted of the crime of organised crime will be referred to the Special Department, but only persons found by the court to have circumstances that indicate the danger that the convicted will continue with criminal activity and during the course of the sentence. It is also foreseen that the court periodically examines its decision in the reference of the convicted person in the Special Department and that it makes a further decision, in accordance with the collected reports and opinions. If the court decides that there are no longer circumstances that justify a further stay convicted in the Special Department, the prison sentence will continue to be maintained in accordance with the general regime for the maintenance of the prison sentence. In relation to the situation of convicted persons, it should be pointed out that those convicted during the time of application of the fines in the Special Department have less rights than the other convicted persons, as if therefore these rights of the convicted are precisely governed by this draft law. Also, for the same reasons, precise measures of coercion and the conditions under which the coercion measures are imposed on these persons can be applied. Of course, given that the restriction of the rights of convicted persons in relation to the general regime for the maintenance of prison sentences, it is necessary to provide and prescribe how their rights will be protected. In this respect, the bill provides for the right to appeal to the Head of the Office and the Director of the Office for the Enforcement of Institutional Sanctions, as well as the right to judicial protection. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime. The most important newspaper, which contains the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, concerns, above all, the definition of organised crime, which is in line with both the draft laws and amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Palermo Convention. This harmonisation is important because the existing definition in the Law on Organized Crime was not precise, nor was it identical with the definition in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which caused a lot of problems in practice in determining the competence of specialised national authorities to combat organised crime. Another important newspaper in the bill is the extension of the jurisdiction of specialised state authorities to fight organised crime for new crimes, and this – crimes against constitutional arrangements and security of the Republic of Serbia, criminal acts of corruption in the case of top state officials, crimes of international terrorism and the financing of terrorism and the crime of money laundering, if that money comes from organised crime, corruption and terrorist financing. In particular, I would like to stress that the extension of powers relating to the criminal acts of corruption is a fulfillment of the country's recommendation to combat corruption by the Council of Europe, whose Republic of Serbia is a member. In addition, in order to comply with the new Public Prosecutor's Law, it is envisaged that the jurisdiction of the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Department, the Special Prosecutor's Office, will be taken over by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. The draft law also provides for specific conditions which must be met by judges in the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal who are assigned to the special departments of these courts for the handling of criminal offences provided for in this law. Also, necessary changes have been made in order to comply with the new Law on Regulating Courts, as well as minor terminology changes due to compliance with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. As regards the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure at the outset, I would mention that at the end of last year, a similar text of this law was sent to the National Assembly which was not discussed due to the extensive agenda in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law today contains, to the greatest extent, the provisions of the text of last year, with certain newspapers that have been put in place in order to conduct criminal proceedings more effectively. I would point out that currently in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia we have two laws on criminal proceedings. In May 2006, a new Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted. The application of this Code has repeatedly been delayed due to the absence of conditions for its application. This draft law puts the 2006 Code out of force, addressing the problem of the existence of two laws on criminal proceedings in the legal system. With regard to further reform of criminal law in the Republic of Serbia, I would point out that the ministry of justice has formed a working group aimed at drawing up a completely new text of the criminal code that would contain the most modern legal solutions in this area. I hope that, next year, the work on this legal text will be completed and that after the adoption of the National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia will receive a brand-new, modern Code of Criminal Procedure that will be brought into line with all international standards and practices, which will put an end to the problem that has arisen in recent years with regard to this code. Along with judicial and public prosecutors' reform, the new code should contribute more effectively to the conduct of criminal proceedings appropriate to the needs of the Republic of Serbia, with all protection of the rights of the person charged with criminal offences. By the time the new Code of Criminal Procedure is passed, it is necessary to amend the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, which appears to be the draft law on which it is today. In addition to the reasons for the law being passed, it should be pointed out that a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Criminal Code, the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors, and that a number of international conventions and contracts relating to criminal proceedings have been ratified, so it is necessary to bring the Criminal Procedure Code into line with those legal acts. The draft law also contains solutions which, in the opinion of case law and the professional public, are necessary for the effective and comprehensive application of the Codes in practice. Among the most important solutions contained in the bill, I would point out the following. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a smooth generalisation is allowed between the defenders and the defendants without any supervision, which is in line with international legal standards in this area. With regard to the search, several important changes are foreseen. The possibility of calling a witness through e-mail or other electronic transmission of messages shall be introduced, procedural protection of the joint witnesses shall be introduced, the measures shall be extended to prohibiting leaving the place of the accused, so that this measure also applies to the prohibition of leaving the apartment, i.e. the prohibition of access to certain persons. It also introduces the possibility of electronic surveillance for the application of measures. The most significant changes relating to the detention and introduction of a special party and public hearing for the determination and suspension of detention. The absence of duly called parties shall not prevent the holding of the hearing and the making of a decision on detention. This would not be lost to efficiency, and the decision on detention would be preceded by a contradictory debate, i.e. the possibility for the parties to present their arguments and arguments directly to the court. It also introduces the right of citizens' protectors, the National Assembly Commissions, as well as international organisations, in accordance with international agreements, to visit detainees in an uninterrupted manner and to speak to them in private. The provisions governing the institution's disposal of criminal prosecution have been amended. The public prosecutor was given the opportunity to postpone criminal prosecution for crimes for which a sentence of up to three years in prison was threatened, or with the court's approval when it comes to a criminal offence threatened by up to five years in prison. Also, it gives the public prosecutor the opportunity to press charges directly for crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to eight years. In addition, the special paper is the introduction of a plea agreement institute, which is characteristic of Angolan criminal proceedings, but is now widely accepted in many continental European legislations. This institute in our criminal proceedings can, realistically, lead to a faster end to many criminal proceedings and cost cuts, while not jeopardising the interest of legality and justice, which is also the basic reason for introducing this institute. The court's powers to impose sanctions for breach of order in the main search are increased, and provisions of the laws relating to the postponement and suspension of the main search have also been specified in order to effectively conduct the procedure. A second-degree court's obligation is imposed to hold a search and to rule the case if it has already abolished the first-degree verdict and return the case to a new trial of the first-degree court, which aims to reduce the length of the criminal proceedings and increase the level of liability of the second-degree court. The amendment of a judicial verdict without repeating a criminal case in the event that a convicted person whose statement is relevant for the detection, prevention or proof of these offences appears as a witness to a criminal offence. For reasons of celery, two extraordinary legal remedies have been deleted, and this is an emergency mitigation of penalties and requirements for the examination of the legality of a judicial verdict. In addition, in order to implement the procedure more effectively, the application of the provisions on the shortened procedure has been extended to all criminal offences for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to five years. Chapter 29 has been completely amended. The Code, which prescribes specific provisions in the procedure for the work of organised crime. The most significant newspaper in relation to the current solutions is the following: special provisions establishing specific powers of law enforcement authorities would apply in the future not only to acts of organised crime, but also to acts of corruption and other extremely serious criminal offences; then, measures to facilitate the detection and demonstration of certain criminal offences, including monitoring of phone conversations, providing simulated services and controlled deliveries are given in one place, and only in this chapter of the law. The current list of measures also adds a measure of the accounting search of personal and other related data and their electronic processing. Then, the protection of the identity of the undercover investigator was better resolved, since its use so far has remained largely due to the risks to which those persons were exposed. The witness co-worker and after obtaining that status remains in criminal proceedings, covered by the verdict, and was given the penalty by the Criminal Code, and then the penalty imposed is reduced by one half, by being issued to him or her by a public prosecutor and by a criminal offence, by the conduct of the court and other essential circumstances of the case, may give him a mild sentence or a release from the sentence. The proposed solution is more in line with the spirit of the Criminal Code and with the principle of justice than the solution so far. The possibility of a convicted person testifying in criminal cases of organised crime, which could reduce the sentence to which he is convicted if his testimony is relevant to detecting, preventing or proving these crimes. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. The adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code is primarily proposed for three reasons. The criminal code was passed in September 2005, and entered into force on 1 January 2006. Meanwhile, there has been a change in the state-law status of the Republic of Serbia, and a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been introduced. In line with the above-mentioned changes in the legal order, it is necessary to make changes to the Criminal Code which are primarily termological in nature, which relate to erasing from the text of the laws of expressions relating to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro which has ceased to exist. Another reason is the fact that since the adoption of the laws, the Republic of Serbia has signed and ratified a large number of conventions, which require their implementation into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to carry out certain amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, both with regard to the introduction of new crimes and with regard to amending the incrimination of existing criminal offences. This is how the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia are met, which have been taken over by confirming these conventions. Since more than three years have passed since the criminal code entered into force, and given the state of crime in the Republic of Serbia and the criminal policy of the courts during that period, it is necessary to review and threaten criminal offences. The proposed law tightens the penalties for about a third of crimes, which strengthens general prevention and deters potential perpetrators, which is the primary objective of the law governing material and criminal law. In addition, in accordance with the proposals of the judicial and other state authorities, amendments have been made, both in the general section of the Criminal Code and in the specific part, which introduces some new criminal acts, i.e. specific acts of enforcement for the already prescribed criminal offences. The most important change relating to the general section of the Criminal Code is the following. The application of the provisions on the part of little importance is extended and criminal offences for which a sentence of up to five years is prescribed. It is possible for the court to determine the execution of a prison sentence sentenced to a one-year sentence, in such a way that the convicted cannot leave the room in which he resides, which is some sort of home prison. It is also prescribed that in this way execution in case of arbitrary leave of the apartment by a convicted person can be replaced by the execution of a sentence in prison. Conditions for setting parole are tightened by providing that a convicted person who has endured two-thirds of the prison sentences can be suspended, instead of, as has been predicted, one-half of the sentence so far. There's been a tightening of the prison penalty limit. For crimes for which a prison sentence of at least 10 years has been threatened, the sentence can be reduced to seven years in prison, and for crimes for which a prison is prescribed for up to five years, from two to three years in prison. It is also foreseen that for certain crimes against half-freedom, the criminal act of human trafficking, the crime of unauthorized production and the trafficking of intoxicating drugs and the crime of trafficking in human beings cannot be mitigated under the legal minimum. In addition, punishment cannot be tempered even to the perpetrator of crimes who again commits the same crime. A new measure of security of the restraining order and communication with the damaged is being introduced. The Court of Justice may, by this measure, prohibit the perpetrator of a criminal offence from approaching the damaged area at a certain distance, prohibit access to space around the place of residence or place of work damaged and prohibit further harassment of damaged or further communication with the damaged, if justified, it may be considered that further carrying out such actions of the perpetrator would be dangerous to the injured. It is introduced, in the sense of the Criminal Code, the concept of public service, which is considered to be a profession or a duty that has an increased risk to the security of persons performing it, and refers to professions which are relevant to public information, human health, education, public transport, legal and professional assistance to courts and other state bodies. The introduction of this term is necessary in order to increase criminal and legal protection of persons engaged in these professions. Compared to the special section of the Criminal Code, the most important changes are the following. As a difficult murder, the life-repair of a judicial officer or police officer in connection with the performance of an official duty is qualified to be deprived of the life of a person who performs matters of public importance in relation to the tasks carried out by that person. A qualified form of a crime of security threat was introduced when this work was done according to the president of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the holders of judicial functions and a person who performs matters of public importance in the field of information. Penalties for crimes of rape, promise of an powerless face, promise of a child, promise of abuse of position, illicit sexual acts, subjugation and the provision of sexual intercourse and intervening in the conduct of prostitution have been tightened. In order to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, changes have been made to the criminal act of displaying pornographic material and exploiting children for pornography and new crimes have been introduced, such as the admission of a minor to the presence of full-time actions and the exploitation of a computer network or communication by other technical means to carry out a criminal act against semi-freedom against a minor. Penalties for crimes against property for individual acts have been tightened and a qualified form has been introduced when acts were committed by an organised criminal group. The crime of money laundering is in line with the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of income obtained by crime and financing terrorism, and in line with this, a form of this work has been introduced and its own income obtained by crime. The crime has been changed – unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. The proposed changes to this criminal act shall be introduced as non-authorised farming of macaques or psychoactive hemps or other plants from which intoxicating drugs are obtained or which contain intoxicating drugs themselves. It is also particularly incriminate to commit this crime by an organised criminal group. Keeping drugs for personal use is singled out into a particularly criminal act called — the unauthorized holding of intoxicating drugs. Also, a criminal offence has been completed – enabling the use of intoxicating drugs, so that it is prescribed that a health care professional will not be punished that allows the use of intoxicating drugs as part of medical assistance. It was also introduced as a qualified form of this work – the death result resulting from its execution. In order to comply with conventions in high-tech crime, a new crime has been prescribed – creating, obtaining and providing other means to carry out crimes against the security of computer data. Penalties for crimes against the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia have been tightened. New criminal acts have been introduced – unauthorized public commentation of court proceedings and obstruction of justice. These crimes have been sanctioned to issue statements concerning the court's proceedings in order to violate the assumptions of innocence and independence of the courts. It is also sanctioned to call for non-execution of court decisions, as well as to prevent judicial officials from performing their duties. The punishment for a criminal offence has been tightened – infringements of the confidentiality of proceedings in the case of proceedings against minors, as well as in the case of data relating to the witness protection programme. In order to comply with the Criminal Law Convention on Co-Corruption of the CoE and the UN Convention against Corruption, amendments have been made to the criminal offence – illegal mediation, which has been re-formed and changed its name to – trade in influence, as well as the change in criminal acts – the receiving and giving of bribes. In order to comply with the Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime, changes have been made in the criminal act – racial and other discrimination. Also, in order to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings, crimes have been changed -- human trafficking and child trafficking for adoption. Also, in order to align with the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism, a crime has been amended – financing terrorism. Law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The reason for the adoption of this bill is to specify the criminal provisions in the act relating to commercial offences, by presupposing responsibility for the commercial offence and the liability and authority of the legal person. The law proposes an initiative by the judicial authorities applying the criminal provisions of these laws for the reason that it is necessary to specify the provisions for commercial offences for the proper and effective conduct of the procedure for commercial offences prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financing of Terrorism. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted, which will create a regulatory framework for the continuation of judicial reform in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, already passed laws in the field of justice and the needs of our country and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24365	Before I set a break, I would like to inform the MPs that a representative of the G17 Plus MP, Snezana Kenig-Sedlar, and an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Advanced Serbia's Jorgovanka Tabakovic, has been authorised. A reminder of today's broadcast session of the National Assembly: today, July 17th, by 16:30; I say a reminder because I gave this notice for Thursday 16th of July, and Friday 17th of July. During the afternoon session, I will give you a notice on when and at what time the broadcast will be broadcast, as well as on the time of direct transmission for the session to take place tomorrow, July 18th, on Saturday. Finally, on the basis of Article 85(5), I am determining and informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and by discussing a point that is on the agenda at that time. I'm setting a break now. End of day. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs of Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, issue an opinion on the draft law under points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this session, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24367	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, four important reasons why I voted against the proposal of this 7-law group yesterday on the Justice and Administration Committee. One reason is that it is unacceptable for seven points of the agenda, with such a serious matter, to be joined into a single debate and this is primarily an irresponsible relationship between you, Mrs Malovic, towards the work you do, because I am fully convinced that you in agreement with the ruling majority have requested that these points be joined in a single debate. In serious countries, each of these laws would require at least a 15-day debate in parliament. Since you often go around the white world and inform yourself that the judiciary is working there, I don't believe they told you anywhere that these five-six laws, as many as there are, seven actually, can be discussed in a single debate. The second reason I took the stand is because Mrs Malovic was not present on the Justice Committee yesterday, Mr Ćosic was present. I believe that he took a good part in removing the CDs of these Sanader laws, because it's obvious that these laws, you'll see it both in the principle debate and in the discussion of details. Nevertheless, he could not discuss the Committee without the presence of the Minister of Justice. Mr. Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, said yesterday, given that we brought this to the Committee, that he would state our position that these points could not be joined. I call him on purpose now because he has deceived the members of the Committee because he has not expressed that attitude. The next reason I took the stand is to disenfranchise the work of Parliament, the work of the Committee, and what you're doing, this billing, as if working on a norm, is simply amazing. Like what you just did, Mrs. Comic, before this break, you informed us on the way today that you would tell us when we will be on television tomorrow, and you did not inform us that tomorrow, on an unworkable day, you did not ask the National Assembly whether it was in agreement, nor did you state the reasons why it must. If it's your annual vacation arrangements, then you should have planned it when setting the agenda. I don't know, while we're already on the agenda, we still haven't received the social security law, a proposal, and yesterday you voted to discuss the law in parliament. The fourth, and should actually be the first, both main and basic, reason I opted out is because today we have a proposal, Mrs. Malovic, of extremely bad laws. It's your manners. The laws you propose to the National Assembly, not only yours, but also the ministers before you, are proposed to Parliament in accordance with the current situation, with a case of criminality, with a group of criminal cases, and then to overcome something that you have drawn in your heads that must be solved just like that, if it is not already settled in the existing laws, then you are going with amendments and amendments to the laws or the adoption of completely new laws, in order for these cases to be applied to legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24368	Five minutes. The time to present the reasons for the opinion has been used. Does the word wish for MP Petar Jojic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24369	Ladies and gentlemen, what Ms. Verica Radeta said was the reasons why I took my opinion on the Justice Committee. Before the SRS would point out and draw attention to the professional public and to you, gentlemen of Parliament, regarding this set of laws that came before the Republic's parliament, I intend to refer first to the fundamental principles of international criminal law. First, the development of international criminal law has been very slow because it has been constantly clashing with the notion of national sovereignty. Secondly, international criminal law has created and there are different theories depending on the socio-political system of the state in question. Third, international criminal law is placed within the framework of international public law in order to resolve the conflicts between the countries to which it occurs. Fourthly, some international criminal rights theorists define as the right to include rules on the responsibility of states for violations of international law, such as the conduct of an aggressive war, and we have had an example from history and recent past that the NATO pact has committed aggression against the SRJ, where it has committed major war crimes. Fifthly, today international criminal law is most often seen as a system of criminal-repairing instruments containing a foreign element, with limited repressive government of the state compared to other countries. The sixth, international criminal law as a supernational right was given a strong incentive by the adoption of the Roman Statute, which was adopted in 1998, and signed by more than 100 states, only this statute was not signed, nor was the treaty ratified by the United States, because their soldiers would not respond to the territories of other states when they committed crimes. There is no development, in particular, of international criminal law without well-developed national criminal law. The criminal legislation of each country is an uncut attribute of absolute sovereignty, which is not the case with us. Each State has an inalienable right to establish and apply its criminal, procedural and criminal-material law on its own. This is not the case for Serbia, because Serbia is introducing America into our criminal legislation. International agreements and conventions are the most important sources of international criminal law. The most important contracts of this type are the Charter of the United Nations, the General Declaration of the Rights of Man, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. These contracts apply to signatories countries as a law. Universal basic principles accepted by almost all countries of the international community are: the principle of legality, the principle of individual (personal) subjective criminal liability, the principle of humanity and the principle of justice and proportionality. A major coup was carried out on our constitutional, criminal-material and procedural legislation. When the state pays millions of damages, as is the case with Sablja, and when it has to be regressed due to bad laws, not only those relating to the judiciary, then more bills will probably be made on international standards and international norms. That's terrible, but we're going to the totalitarian system. The legal amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure provide for the length of detention after the indictment has been filed, or the first-degree sentence will no longer be restricted by law, but will be decided by a court of law. After the indictment has been handed over to the court, and by the end of the main investigation, the public prosecutor may, in the light of the submitted opinion, be subject to his request, subjugated or abolished only the court's decision. These changes abolished a solution so far that the detention could take up to two, three, even four years if the fine has been threatened for 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the professional public, and in particular the professors of law school, the Law Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina Attorney's Chamber, indicate that there was no public debate and that this set of laws has been passed without the expert public being consulted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24370	People's MP, the time you have at your disposal has been used. Did MP Sladjan Mijaljević, who, at the session of the Committee on European Integration, single out his opinion on the draft law on items 4 and 8 of the agenda, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24371	Dear Presidency, colleagues, this is another law group that came in after only a few years for review. That speaks enough of the quality of the laws that have been passed as on the factory strip. You yourself said in the opening statement that we have so far had in the last two or three years even two laws or criminal laws, according to which some justice is being done here in Serbia. Someone is proposing legislation, the Assembly with less or more success corrects the proposal. Crimes recognized, penalties threatened, and when the law comes into use, problems begin. "Free jurisprudence" or pressure on free jurisprudence, especially from some powerful men, financial and political, create one terrible environment, where some processes last five, 10, 15, and over 20 years, while some processes become obsolete, and let crimes never come into a situation to be prosecuted. We even have cases where the former justice minister submits a whole room of evidence against the current minister, and in the end, that process never comes to life. On the other hand, you've got some unfortunate cases where never a convicted man, I'm undermining, commitable crime, and is sentenced to seven years in prison, while you have drug dealers who commit crimes for 10 and 15 years, and only in the seventh sentence come to a prison sentence of 5-6 years. Of course, I'm saying that the ambience is terrible and all of what I've said is that, not implementing the criminal law equally for everyone, then they're disreputed, hurt, sick, paranoid, they're all taking matters into their own hands and trying to get justice out with spoon bombs in courts or by proposing some new laws to protect their character and act. They go so far as to demand that the legal ban on the mention of a person at the level of indication, established doubt or deed, or only if a court ruling has been passed, and they are going through the mud alone, with unsecured satisfaction, many or almost all of the Hague indictees. This set of laws and a set of laws on judges and courts that you passed a few months ago unequivocally lead us into a very serious, terrible dictatorship. It is not difficult to pass the law, but a serious question is raised – who, for what reason, proposes both who and how to implement them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24372	Did MP Momir Markovic, who, at the session of the Committee on European Integration, single out his opinion on the draft law on item 4 of the agenda, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever the law is passed, the basic question being asked – what does this law bring new to the law that was in force in the previous period? The first thing this law on the execution of criminal sanctions, because I'm going to talk about it, as a newspaper brings is – it will no longer be called prison sanctions, but will be called criminal sanctions, and the law itself will be called the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. I'm gonna do a little dyspression. It occurred to me to remind you of the words of Nikola Pasic, when he was asked in due time whether to invest a certain amount of money in the construction of schools or prisons in Posarevec, he said – you build a prison, we will no longer go to school. Taken with the idea by one previous minister of justice promised Serbian citizens at least 20 prisons. Although his mandate was short, he failed to build some new ones, but he made a pool and many other things in Pogorevc, Zabela. He renovated a former military prison and built a special court and prison department for those who come to trial or are under that treatment, so they're lying in jail upstairs. It can still be said, to you DOS gentlemen, in any aggregate form since 2000, some of you can say that most of those who have now exercised power or who have exercised power will likely, under this law, be the beneficiary of the services of an institution to enforce the sanctions. It is interesting that, apart from verbal change, almost nothing can change, because the practice of both this law and many other laws than the theory found in the law is often diametrically opposite – forest theory, road practice. I've written down a few members that are related to the changes, and now I'd just like to analyze a few of them. In a former member of the 26th. The law on the enforcement of institute sanctions, now law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the intended place of director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, has so far been that it has at least seven years of working experience following the acquisition of high professional training in criminal proceedings or in the judiciary, so narrowly or in connection with the judiciary, for courts, the prosecution or that a man has already worked there. In the change, the conditions are no longer in place, so I wonder, who are you preparing, gentlemen of the DOS, for this very responsible function? By the way, let me warn you, after the change of government and after the next election, he certainly won't be the director of the criminal sanctions management. Therefore, the privilege is that you have appointed him. I'm not thinking about you, Madam Minister, but I'm thinking about some other authorities in this country. Therefore, the privileges you set there will not be used. Article 23, an old law that is also amended, refers to health care, prevention and treatment of convicted and detained persons. It says very nicely here in the law, enter one of the buildings of the Department of Criminal Penalty, so check the health care of those people who are convicted, detained, prepared for trial or are already maintaining prison sentences. You know, as someone who, thanks to DOS's mercy, had the opportunity in 2003 to feel the benefits of these institutions, I think I'm very competent to say that there is no health care there – there is no man above all. Absolutely the whole institution is prepared, constructed to dehumanize, to disfigure, you become a number there. Get ready...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24374	Five minutes. Thank you, People's Messenger. Time has been used. The words are made by the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, from the least parliamentary group, to the largest, i.e. in the electronic system of applications were the MPs of Đura Peric, the authorised representative, the MP of Balint Pastor, the president of the parliamentary group, the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and the MP of the people Petar Petrovic. The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24375	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the proposal of a set of laws in the area of justice, it seems to me that this is a further process of upgrading our judicial system and improving many of the solutions that have been missing so far. Some of these laws are obligations arising as obligations under international agreements, but they contain, in general, proposals for these laws, in addition to regulating certain issues necessary for the more effective work of judicial authorities, and the need to apply European legal standards specifically and to accept the recommendations of the Council of Europe and European case law, as well as solutions arising from the ratified international conventions in the area of criminal law. Certain draft laws bring together certain provisions arising from the obligation to adopt the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the change in the constitutional and legal arrangement of Serbia after the break-up of the community we had. In my view, it is certainly the most significant and primary issue that is proposed to amend and supplement two roof codes, the Criminal Code and the CAP, because the proposed solutions in them will significantly improve and facilitate the application of these laws when it comes to serious criminal offences, such as crimes of organised crime, corruption and other extremely serious crimes. I think it is a good thing that the amendment and addition of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime is proposed, especially by extending the application of this law to corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, thus allowing the application of the provisions of Chapter 29a of the CAP, and the procedure for such crimes. It is also significant that the proposal for this law increases the professional criteria for judges in the Special Department of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal. Since we are, as a society and a state, faced with various occurrences of organised crime, it is really necessary to pass a special law on the execution of charges for the crimes of organised crime and thus to prevent those convicted indirectly, through other persons or in various other ways, from affecting and continuing to organise or direct criminal activities of their or some other criminal groups. It is important to stress that the applicable law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions does not make a difference in the regime of maintaining a prison between persons convicted of the crimes of organised crime and persons convicted of other crimes. As a result, this law allows for the education of the Special Department for the execution of criminal offences for organised crime, criminal acts of terrorism and international terrorism, criminal acts in international humanitarian law and others committed in closed-end institutions, with special security. With a view to further limiting the rights of convicted by the adoption of this proposed special law, since only the law can provide for additional restrictions on the rights of convicted persons, it is only possible to establish a sensitive balance between the need to protect society from organised crime and the need to comply with international standards in the field of human rights condemned. Finally, I would like to point out that we have, as a parliamentary group, a request from 54 NGOs, who have been asked to support the amendments submitted for the crimes of domestic violence. On this occasion, I declare that we, as a parliamentary group, will accept this to support these proposals made in these amendments, and these are two amendments, as will the PUPS parliamentary group, on the day set for the vote, to vote in favour of the proposed set of these laws on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24376	I would like to inform the MPs that, in mutual agreement, Parliamentarians Balint Pastor and Randelovic Nebojsa have replaced their seats in order because of the obligations they have both. The People's Messenger Nebojsa Rangelovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic and the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24377	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable representatives of the government, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I would first like to express my gratitude to my fellow Pastor for his understanding. Now, I'd like to move on to just a statement on a set of laws that are on the agenda today. First of all, I would stick to one of the previous issues, because the previous question is always the start of the procedure. I'd like to say a few words on the question of joining seven dots into one. We have seven important laws in front of us, two of which are very systematic, so basic laws. Yesterday, the culture minister spoke of roof laws, and now we have fundamental laws, whose good application is contitiated by the son of qua non of a good legal and judicial system. For these seven laws that are fundamentally important, the LDP parliamentary group has only 14 minutes. Can we put everything we think and everything we want to say about these laws together in those 14 minutes? My answer is no. Of course, I will not insist that this previous issue be resolved by voting, that is, the Assembly declares it. Yesterday we had one such attempt, which I myself pointed out by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Instead of respecting our arguments, I received a brief lecture on the procedure. I'll take the opportunity to apologize to my students, it's obvious that I don't know all the procedures and that in the books from which I've studied the procedure there is no such thing. That's about what happened today, Mr. Culture Minister, who was talking about civilising parliament. Is this the civilization of parliament due to a general process that we all notice, and the ruling majority and opposition, that one insignificant body is made of parliament, from MPs a man of weak property who will be able to manipulate everyone. Is this the way to establishing a new system of government, where some new SSRN will rule, with the help of a party of washed ideology. But to go back to self-indulgence about the set of laws we're talking about. First, I will have one general reference to the problems raised and, of course, I will express my gratitude to Justice Minister Mrs. Snezani Malovic, which has allowed me to shorten my presentation, speaking about the history of criminal law in the past 10 years. I am also sorry that now all of what we are saying and all the shortcomings we find in criminal law can be estimated to be brought down to this ministry which is at least wrong about it, because the previous government and previous ministries are rules of a number of wrong moves, which are now turning upside down. To remember, we had a legal nonsension to apply two laws on criminal proceedings, which is inadmissible for one state. We also had something inadmissible in law theory and history, and in law enforcement and in the legal system, to novelize a delegated law that was put out of force, to prevent unwanted consequences from happening, I'm specifically talking about the possibility of bringing detention to the members of the Zemun clan. Remember, that's what we did in the previous session. Since scandalous things have been done, we've come all the way here. Now we finally have some signs of criminal law policy moving in some kind of good direction. From what was presented to us both as a bill and as a commentary of amendments and additions, it was seen that the gradual introduction of new institutions was taken into account and their verification in practice, which we had no case so far, so we had both inapplicable law and inability to apply the prosecution investigation. So then aligning with international regulations and international standards, caution about the prosecution investigation, so the strategy is to introduce a prosecutor's investigation, but with caution and with the possibility of being applied, not as with the previous law, which will thank God be put out of force, I hope after the vote of these amendments and additions; harmonising the capacity of the judicial network with the needs of new legislation, favouring the principles of not going and going and in dubio pro reo etc. Of course, I will remain in debt to my voters if I do not mention the place of such a positive strategy and a positive policy of the Ministry of Justice in the legal system of the state at all. How do you put these efforts in the context of the existence of the nakaradus Constitution? Someone was just talking about buying cheeks. I am proud to say that all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, have participated in the adoption of this nakaradan constitution, that all of you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, have calmly watched the referendum of stealing come to such a constitution and watched from the arrests of LDP activists, who were engaged in an anti-constitutional campaign. Well, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here's your Constitution now, so see how you apply it. The constitution, for which I have repeatedly indicated in this Parliament that it is an antiquity, and therefore, by many segments inapplicable, is now in the service of a reversible process which complicates what organisational judicial law should simplify. We're initiating a prosecutor's investigation, we're giving great authority to the prosecutor, and by the constitution, that prosecutor is one of the executives' tools. To remind us, members of 158 and 159 say that without a proposal, therefore, the government's decision does not have the appointment of a state prosecutor or a public prosecutor. He and such a prosecutor will have huge powers, so put it in the context of the Information Act. Relation of the prosecutor - the judge - ban, and the executive authority can order, according to what I said about the Constitution, the prosecutor what he will do, so you can see how informative texts will be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the law we discussed this morning. There are other anomalies. It seems that the ruling majority loved the fact that the U.S. Constitutional Court was formed and that he was doing unfulfilled, without one-third of the judges, so now we have the bridal High Council of the judiciary and we have one lardy, where there is no way that a proposal of the University could come to the Assembly, which of their representatives would fill the seat in the High Council of the Judiciary. To remind you, Professor Zoran Tomic had 96 votes. The vote was given to him by the ruling majority, but it did not agree and agreed to be 126. That's why we now have the condition that it is. In the context of such a legal system, amendments and additions to these laws that we are discussing today are also proposed. As far as the metrics themselves are concerned, i.e. in the essence of these laws, we of the LDP have submitted five amendments. This says that we do not first use the amendments as a means of obstruction in parliament, but we want to improve the law in a quality way, primarily the Law on Criminal Procedure and Amendments and the addition of the Criminal Code, to bring Serbian legal system. We have some general remarks. They are more legal-technical, some of them linguistic. I will give an example of a decisive and decisive fact. There are strong facts all over the place. The fact can't be determined. A man can be determined, the fact can be decisive. Call, request, appeal to the Justice Department to keep an eye on who he's hiring to write laws, at least keep it in writing. It's also my grudge about words of search and search. The search is a generic term. You know what it means in court proceedings. Searching is something else. We have also foreseen this in the amendments that have been tabled, and when the amendments are discussed, we will give a detailed explanation. I'm just going to suggest that our amendments aren't just legal-technical nature, that they're both essential. One concerns Article 325. Article 325 is against us. Calling for resistance, that's what he called himself in the unrenovated Criminal Code. Now it's called a different one, but it's kept the attributes of anti-constitution. That's why in the amendment, with one big explanation, we've had that member erased. When we talk about the amendments, we will continue to explain why we consider this member to be against the constitution. This also concerns the criminal act of abuse of official office. Because of what has already been applied and in the process of judicial authorities, we have approached the same tactics that we are seeking to delete a member in the amendment, but we have tried to correct it by adding that illegal acquisition of property benefit is foreseen, which is far from narrowing down the possibilities for abuses by judicial authorities. These are mostly our objections to the proposed laws. It's our view of the whole set of laws. I'm going to thank you for your attention, and I'm going to leave some time to end the review of these laws in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24378	The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, and then the Messenger of Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a set of very important laws in the field of justice, and at the beginning of my presentation, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that these seven laws are extremely important, practically united. It is unacceptable that we practically have less than three minutes under one law. The minister spoke here for about 35 minutes, and I'm sure there's more to be said, because there's a big question of how we're gonna get there in 20 minutes to say everything about these laws. So we will try NS, practically, to concentrate on the most important laws that matter to the judiciary. Of course, the NS Parliament Club has submitted amendments to these laws, and surely in this debate in principle and in particular we will try to fix something that we have had in this short time, and we have had a very short time, especially on the proposal to amend the CAP and the Criminal Code extremely little time. What particularly bothers us when it comes to these laws is the lack of public debate. Having contacts with many legal holders and especially with lawyers and the Bar of Lawyers, it is clear that some things have been run over, that some things should have been more thoroughly set up because, ultimately, courts, lawyers and other parties are in the process that will apply this law. Given the shortness of time, I would first of all base myself on the CAP. A lot of this has already been said by my predecessors when it comes to the relationship between some previous criminal code, and in this time I would point to some irregularities that we have observed in particular. A large and confusing norm in the use of photographic or audio and visual recordings has been introduced, allowing the wide and open use of materials collected secretly or without the express or tacit consent of the suspect or accused. This is a member of the 30th novel. Without sufficient guarantees against abuse and violation of basic freedoms and human rights, the measures of electronic surveillance of the accused, whose implementation will be entrusted to the police or to Bija, have been prescribed. Despite the principle of going towards the acoustic type of procedure, the court has been given the authority to approve certain dispositions of the public prosecutor, Article 61 and Article 74 of the novel. The immediate indictment has been extended to criminal crimes with a threatened prison sentence of up to eight years, under the pretext of going to meet so-called. A prosecutor's investigation, although a direct indictment cannot in any case compensate for the absence of an investigation, a member of the 63rd novel. While standardising the plea agreement is part of a new concept that the working group is working on to prepare the new CAP, provisions on the agreement are quickly included in the novel. I'd rather stick to the introduction of a plea agreement. Personally, I think it is good to introduce, however, the NS Parliament Club has responded here, Madam Minister, by amendment. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the number of criminal offences, i.e. the threatened sentence from 10 years to 12 years, because for crimes which could be subject to a plea agreement, criminal acts, such as against human health and other crimes where a sentence of up to 12 years in prison is threatened, may be subject to a plea agreement. This would have the full purpose of reducing the number of cases in courts, and the principles of general and special prevention would be fully met, which would not be violated. Other shortcomings in these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are that delivery, for example, has been entrusted to the police, the assumption has been established that delivery has been made in a situation where there is no practical delivery, and provisions on electronic communication of the court with the parties have been introduced, without sufficient legal and technical guarantees that legal certainty will be preserved, and in particular that the rights of the accused - Articles 45 to 48 of the new. For procedural non-discipline, not only are high fines, but prisons up to 15 days, which would be given by the president of the court in an underdefined procedure. I'd stay here for a while and I'd point out that so far the fines have been 100,000 dinars, and now they're tightening to 500 thousand dinars. What particularly bothers this member is that, Madam Minister, we have had a situation for the president to impose a sentence, and if the non-discipline continues during the proceedings, the president shall draw up a record and send it to the President of the Court to decide on the height of the sentence. I think it's completely excessive. The president of the council is in charge of the procedure and it is unacceptable that a future sentence is decided by the president of the court, who is not present at all during the main search. Furthermore, what might be taken and resented is that the second-degree court is under obligation to judge the matter after one of the first-degree rulings, and to do so in a council session, it is a member of the 103rd novel. The reasons for the appeal against the second-degree judgment are limited only to the case where the first-degree discharge ruling has been changed to a conviction and the most severe sentence has been imposed and the second-degree court has ruled on the basis of a otherwise established factual situation – Article 105 of the Novela. Two emergency legal remedies have been excluded – an emergency penalty mitigation request and a request to examine the legality of a judicial verdict. Those would be some basic grudges when it comes to the criminal code. We believe that there was more room for working groups to be created, that all the relevant factors that can contribute to lawmaking should be included fully in writing such laws, because such laws are extremely important. My opinion is that there was room and that the entry into force of the CAP has been extended, since 1 January 2010, since we have a new organisation in the judiciary, and maybe it should have started with all these things together. When we talk about the law on the execution of prison sentences for organized crime, I would first of all have one perhaps technical and essential remark, call it whatever you want, because in Article 28, when it comes to the position of convicted persons, we have 13 points. The last is the right to appeal and appeal. Several sides behind are said to be the right of a convicted person to judicial protection. Then it is most normal that, if we are talking about rights, it is also in this Article 28, because we have the right to judicial protection here, and it should absolutely be initiated to place judgmental protection under the rights of convicted persons. What also bothers is a reduction in the time limit for judicial protection, as a period of three days has been left, and it is known that the deadline for judicial protection is 30 days. I don't see any reason, no matter what the convicted persons are, to make it difficult for them to communicate, let's just say, with a domicile defender or some other defenders, that he would fully accomplish his own, because in three days, it's impossible to establish that communication. When we talk about the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, I would like to appeal to you here that in Article 264, when it comes to the examination of psychophysical abilities, it is said that the commission is appointed director of the administration. I think, Madam Minister, that you should appoint this commission, in order to obtain one general unity in all institutions, not to individually determine this commission. Since I will leave one part of my discussion to the end, once again a great dissatisfaction as to why the representatives of the lawyer are not sufficiently involved in the making of the law. It is also unacceptable that the representatives of the lawyers are neither in the High Council of the Judiciary, we did not choose them, nor in the State Council of Prosecutors, and here we see they are not present even when we propose legal proposals. That's what worries, that a great profession, like a lawyer, is absolutely forgotten. Just these days, Madam Minister, we have witnessed many articles about the fact that we only mention the law when we talk about the introduction of fiscal registers to lawyers next year. Is that a normal relationship to this profession? Is it normal for lawyers to type bills, and that means control of inspectors, implies the entry of possibly an inspector into the secretion of the case with a lawyer during the control. As regards the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, it is normal for such co-operation to exist, I would have one objection, to Article 13 which reads – the Ministry immediately after knowledge, and no later than a month after receiving the notice from Article 12(1) of this Act, informs the Prosecutor of whether a criminal offence has been committed in the Republic of Serbia on which the notification was received. I think if there's a 30-day deadline right now, which is inappropriately high and should be reduced to, say, eight days, and that's enough time to carry out such a single notice. I must express my dissatisfaction that we do not have a present chairman of the Justice Committee when we speak of such important laws. Unfortunately, it's not the first time. The gentleman who is the chairman of the Justice Committee is also a member of the Judicial Council and it is certainly inappropriate for someone from the ranks of the Members, who is the chairman of the Justice Committee, to be held in such a responsible position, when, as is known, competitions for judges began, to be elected by the full judiciary, but I will continue to discuss some other details. That's it now. Of course, New Serbia has submitted amendments that are, in my opinion, extremely good. We have never proposed a number of amendments, but we have tried to explain the content and quality of some things that can be corrected by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24380	The word has an MP named Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24381	Madam Chairman, Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak exclusively of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions of the Criminal Code are largely complemented by the legal framework for the functioning of criminal acts carried out with ethnic or religious motivation and that is certainly commendable. Mrs. Malovic, you know that on April 7th of the current year here in the National Assembly I asked a question about incidents on a national basis according to members of national minorities. Then I said that SVM is not a party that builds its image or its popularity on the misfortunes of others and has never been the goal of increasing the importance of these incidents on an international basis, but that they are still happening and that the state has to deal with this negative phenomenon. Then, on April 7th, I also said that some aggressive impulses to members of national minorities were re-intented. I listed several specific cases that took place in March and April this year, and I said, unfortunately, those acts do not qualify for us in the way that they should. Unfortunately, we either have a situation so the police don't do their part of the job the way we should, or we have a situation that happens even more often, that the public prosecutor's office doesn't start the procedure on official duty. We have no charges in these cases, but these negative cases are being prosecuted and treated as cases against public order and peace. This is certainly inadmissible, because it is not about bar fights, it is not about harmless events, it is about cases where someone is walking down the street and provoking him, and when they get a slap just because when he walks with a friend on the street or in public transport he speaks Hungarian. It's one phenomenon that's inadmissible and we think that we can fight it exclusively in a way that when it comes to a criminal offence on a national basis, then that's what we have to say and then the perpetrator of that crime needs to get a proper sentence. Unfortunately, in the previous months and previous years, this was not always the case, and unfortunately on June 7th, one such case occurred in Novi Sad, when the Hungarian nationalities were provoked in public transport only because they used Hungarian, which they spoke to each other in Hungarian, and then there was a physical accounting. Unfortunately, the physical reckoning seemed to be a way for the damaged Robert Sabo to suffer very severe physical injuries. We have all the documentation, but unfortunately that case is treated as a violation and will never get a court epilogue the way we think it would be normal. I don't want to talk about specific cases, just as an illustration, I wanted to give the example, and once again say that I talked about this subject here on April 7th, and I asked you how many cases have been brought up, and before that, if there were reports of a crime in Article 317. Criminal code. This is a crime of causing national, racial and religious hatred and intolerance. I have the information you sent in answer to my question. We can see from that table that the judicial authorities respond better to these cases than they did five years ago, but it is a small number of accused and convicted of the crime and it simply does not correspond to the situation on the ground in our society. The problem is that this crime is a cause of national, religious hatred and intolerance in a large number of cases is inadmissible because it is necessary to prove that there has been a cause for this intolerance or hatred and awakening in others. It's very hard to prove. This is one of the reasons why we no longer have any charges or convictions for this crime. For this reason, we are pleased that you have introduced several new crimes committed with ethnic or religious motivations and amendments to the Criminal Code. For example, it's a crime of race and other discrimination, which is where you completed that article. So far, this article has been very difficult to apply to everyday cases. We will now have, after the adoption of the Criminal Code at the National Assembly in July, the form of a criminal offence, for example, the position of Article 4 172. The proposal – which extends or otherwise makes publicly available texts, images or any other representation of ideas or theories that advocate or encourage hatred, discrimination or violence against any person or group of persons based on race, skin colour, religiousity, nationality, ethnic background or any other personal property, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. That's definitely good. Also in this article – who publicly threatens to commit a criminal offence against a person or a group of persons for belonging to a particular race, skin color, religion, nationality, ethnic background or any other personal property for which a threatened prison sentence greater than four years will be punishable by imprisonment from three months to three years. You also introduce a new crime – violent behavior at a sports event and here we have this national or religious, ethnic element and that's good. You have also proposed to specify the crime and increase the criminal penalty – damage to reputation because of racial, religious, national and other belongings. We believe that this regulation can be improved. We have proposed two amendments. I hope these amendments are adopted. If that's the case, then the entire crime complex based on nationality will be completed. It's the crimes of mild and severe physical injury. As for the crime - severe bodily injury, you have suggested changes and additions, and in the proposed changes and additions are said – if the work of a serious physical injury is done according to a minor or a burdensome woman or a person who performs matters of public importance, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to eight years, etc. Here we propose that the same penalty and the person who commits the crime for belonging to a particular race, skin color, religion, nationality, ethnic background, or any other personal property. We believe that what we have proposed fits fully in what you have proposed in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and that is what we have also suggested for the crime of minor physical injury. We've been looking to start with some analogy, but the penalties we've proposed may not be adequate. If you think so, then we can make amends and see what punishments to predict in that case. We believe that racial or religious hatred or impatience, as a motive for the execution of crimes, are not considered a qualitative environment, nor is the bill of law. Given the fact that in a number of cases, physical violence against members of national minorities is committed precisely because of the existence of national or religious hatred among the perpetrators, we believe that the introduction of new qualified forms of these crimes is necessary. These amendments suggest a special incriminating of the ethnic element in the light of the identification of qualified forms of criminal acts that result in physical injury, whether light or heavy. I hope that these amendments will be adopted and that we will do something together in the interest of these negative phenomena from our society, which no doubt exist, disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24382	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24383	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us several laws in the area of criminal law and on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I can say that in the day of voting in principle we will support these amendments and amendments to the law, as well as proposals for new laws, for the reason that it is our obligation for the RS to comply with its criminal legislation with the conventions in this area signed by the Serbian State, with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and also, given the new Constitution of the Serbian State and the new state-law statute of the state of Serbia, that there must be an amendment and amendment of many laws in the area of criminal law, and the proposals of these laws also adopted the opinion of the professional public and the views of judicial practice, so there has to be some amendments and amendments to the proposed legislation. When we talk about the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, many provisions in this law are unfairly resented. On the contrary, we believe that in this way Serbian legislation has, as the law provides, a priority, or advantage in solving certain crimes, and in case Serbian legislation, or Serbian judicial authorities do not act on applications for certain crimes, only then comes the subsidiary jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. On the other hand, in many other laws, such as the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime, etc., some newspapers have been introduced. Stands have been taken to accept the position of court practice, as well as the position of the professional public. In particular, this parliamentary group welcomes the law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime crimes because there has been a consensus here with the new Public Prosecutor's Law and what we will, in this way, be sure to fight organised crime more effectively. We particularly welcome the newspaper in this law that the execution of criminal sanctions for those persons convicted of organised crime is carried out in special departments, to prevent their influence, and so far it has been, that they can continue to manage the inherited or some other organised criminal groups, so it turns out, what the Serbian people would say – for nothing, we have caught and condemned the carriers, or leaders of certain organised criminal groups, when those from prisons literally, as in American films, manage these remains of their organised groups. The fact is that this country has done a lot in the last years, especially in the last year, to suppress, to capture, to break up many organised groups, and that this law, we are sure, will continue this effective work in curbing organised crime in the state of Serbia. When we speak, I would like to stay here the most, about the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, we are sure that this new law will deliver results in application. We know that the new law provides that for one third of the crimes will be increased sanctions, i.e. threatened prison sentences for those who commit crimes, and in practice the courts will have to consistently apply the provisions of the Criminal Code, that it does not happen as far, that, despite the fact that the penalties for certain crimes have been mild, the courts find many reasons to bring such fines to an even lighter level, so many penalties for certain criminals have been ridiculous. The newspaper provided for in this law is the execution of a prison sentence in a home prison or house arrest. I think it's a positive trend, a positive shift in RS criminal law, because we have cases where many people are convicted of certain crimes committed unconsciously, out of lawlessness or in some situation, especially in traffic accidents and violations, when they are brought into a situation, normally they have to respond, but they have committed criminal sanctions in prisons with notorious criminals, returnees, etc. It all affected their long life, their psyche. I think that such an arrangement and leaving the possibility for courts in such cases to, justifiably, send such persons to support the house arrest is a positive shift in the approximation of Serbia to Europe, to European standards, to European tendencies. In particular, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I would have apostrophyd and commended the introduction into this law of some new criminal acts that have not so far been covered by the existing criminal law. I don't want to list all the pieces, but I'd like to single out three, which is the unauthorized holding of intoxicating drugs, unauthorized public commentation of court proceedings, and violent behavior at a sports event. When we talk about this first crime, which is an act of unauthorized drug holding, we also have in the position of the 2nd facilitating circumstance, it is predicted that this person who defends himself is an intoxicating drug for his use, if he knows who he's getting the drugs from, to be released. We, as a state, must strive with all our strengths, including criminal policy, that a great social evil – which has entered the state of Serbia for years and has destroyed the country, especially young people, the future of Serbia – is no longer a drug, and that is no longer a privilege of large environments, but has entered small communities, and has entered villages, so that we must simply and by regulating through laws to prevent and prevent preventive and criminal policies that many intoxicating drugs do not want to say from whom they have obtained it. If they don't want to, then they're going to go to jail, so they'll probably, if they're returnees, have to say where they're getting it, because that's how they get to the top, the main organizers that produce, get and distribute intoxicating drugs. When it comes to a criminal offence - an unauthorised public commentation of court proceedings, we are aware that several years ago there have been indirect or direct pressures on certain court cases, whether these are lower or lower, by certain individuals, by giving comments while court proceedings are under way, by predicting what court ruling will be or by commenting on a court decision that is not executive, final and judicial. I think it's here, and that's my suggestion for the Ministry, to see through the application of this member of this law, that we should sharpen in attitude 2, and then add, if this work is done and done by so-called. public figures, former judicial officials or former ministers, that this has a specific weight and impact on public opinion and even on the decision-making of certain judges. I think there may be a need to tighten the criminal policy, or as an extended crime to treat it. When it comes to the work – violent behavior at the sports event, we are witnesses of everything and everything that happens a few years back in our sports events in Serbia, and I think this way we will at least act preventively on groups, groups and all those young people, middle-aged people or any other year, who are violently inadequately acting on sports events. On the other hand, I don't think the law alone can prevent this ugly phenomenon and the ugly action in our country, that the whole society has to take certain steps to make a simple sports performance a sport event that young people are going to go to, that children are going to watch it, and that they're not afraid that their parents are going to come back unhurt, healthy, alive from some sporting event. State authorities, and also because of the fact that in the earlier period, these organized leaders of any club's fans must not take them when they need to do this or that work, but simply sanction the inappropriate behaviour of such groups of fans. On behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I hope that the ministry and this will take into consideration in a later period of time, when we see that all these new laws are in place to produce results, so surely because life always goes ahead of the law, practice always ahead of the law, that in some new changes we make and put into some new legal regulations, changes and additions of the law. Finally, let me say once again that we as a parliamentary group, so the SPS-JS parliamentary group, are satisfied with these bill proposals and that in the voting day, when voted on these laws, we will give full support to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24384	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and after that, National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24385	Before the start of the debate on the laws' proposals, I would like to introduce the citizens of Serbia to the way our parliament works, in which some members of parliament agree to participate in the game in which parliament is only a seemingly independent political body, and some of us who do not agree to this are faced with almost impossible working conditions. Given that the ruling majority should have in parliament the majority to ensure the adoption of the law, it may be understandable that the leadership of the Assembly accepts such a way of working. But I am asking the citizens of Serbia if it is understandable and possible to process 23 points of the agenda, which we learn on July 9th, during work on a system and very important law on the budgetary system, so that, to our great surprise and surprise, July 14th, the agenda with 23 points and during the extraordinary session, which became the rule, is added to the 24th item of the agenda. It is a very important indicator for us of the way you work, that if you want something, anything is possible. I must tell respected citizens that I never again feared for the future of the Serbian state until I saw the name of that 24th law to be ratified in this assembly. Inheritance with domestic and foreign banks, Alpha Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka and Piraeus Banka, worth 90m euros, which is owed by the state to cover the budget deficit. So, not the task of infrastructure, not the debt of the economy, not some new credit of citizens, but the credit of a state that does not consider savings and putting itself and its consumption in reasonable frames appropriate at the moment was the 24th point that was in the withdrawn and re-delivered agenda, given to us for consideration. As we sit in the Assembly day and night, and over 18 hours, in a united debate, this is what seven laws speak visually of changing penalties, of relations with the International Criminal Court, of how money laundering and the fight against terrorism, of the Criminal Code, of the procedure. I'm asking if there's a superhuman on this point, I'm saying, this is seven, the other 23 you're going to have a chance to see, because my physical strength isn't enough to bring it here, and that's why in advance I'm asking the citizens for an apology which of these seven laws, equally important, I'm going to talk about only two that I think is particularly important at this point, and these are amendments to the Criminal Code and amendments and additions to the laws regarding money laundering and the fight against terrorism. This is not a complaint and moaning, this is the conclusion of a bill proposed by the Government as a lever, where the sovereign, today's president, is only trying to cloud his absolute and discretionary power in proposing, adopting and adopting the law. If the MP of any parliamentary group cannot even read this, how can he represent the citizens at all by trying to change something in this – not well enough, although we do not regret any effort or effort to read these laws and submit amendments to them. I'll start first of all by commenting on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminals, and by reason, as the laws are read. First of all, let me refer to the fact that the reasoning of the law is merely a matter of establishing a constitutional basis for this right to adopt and propose such a law. This constitutional basis is not correctly stated, Madam Minister, it is not quite correct, because it is simply not clear why you did not mention the first sentence of Article 34, which was necessary, which says, that penalties are determined according to the regulation which was applicable at the time of the act, except when the later regulation is more favourable for the perpetrator. So, you're not even the right that the Constitution gives citizens, which was necessary in constitutional terms for the adoption of this law. Probably the promoter did not want to remind – that any change in material criminal law causes the application of the rules to be laid down according to that regulation that was in force at the time when it occurred, or if the subsequent regulation is more favourable to the perpetrator. This, of course, causes problems in application and does not need to be easily reached for a change of any code, especially the Criminal. Before I was interested in the public for my discussion, listening to you, Madam Minister, when you listed the works for which the penalties were increased, while you were saying I believe that others are, as I am, because it's simply a thought process for people who listen, creating images while you speak, and I felt like I'm in front of a kiosk on which daily and Sunday newspapers, on whose front pages are exactly the works that you've been listing – rapes, abuses, fornications, minors, etc. I conclude, if it weren't for a meaningless relationship with your and the government's joint effort to shut down the freedom of the media that would talk about such acts, because if there wasn't noise and anger, and the dust in the public around those parts, there might not be an increase in punishment for this and for these acts, because before that, she couldn't really close her eyes to the government or you as a minister. And experts say that the number of such works has not increased much – only today does the public know more about them, unlike some previous cases. There may also be a reason why in the number 24 agenda points, number one, the elimination of the freedom of the press and the right or the wrong to come out, and then the seven laws that we have equal time to explain. You state three main reasons for law-making. First of all, you say that the termological alignment is needed, because the newly created state of affairs, the separation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, has led to the need for a termological alignment of all that the law covers. That reason is justifiable. The only question arises is whether three years should have passed in order to make weather changes. The other reason doesn't stand. In fact, whenever our government proposes a law, it immediately refers to conventions that our country has ratified. Most of the obligations under these conventions Criminal Code, and you, Madam Minister, know it well, the Code already fulfils the existing criminal acts that are already covered and simply did not need to prescribe a new one. We're wondering which convention, I'd very much like to hear your answer at the end, prescribes a criminal act of construction without a building permit or a facility being built without a building permit. For example, Articles 69. The bill introduces a new special criminal offence – insurance fraud, which only burdens the Criminal Code. Maybe someone will think you're a detailist, someone will say petty, someone will say precise, maybe even a virgin in a horoscope, who knows – that's not the reason, Madam Minister. When you read a set of these laws at the same time, as I was forced to read about money laundering, then I see that special treatment gets all financial services, jobs, and these insurance or financial lease transactions, which are not covered by those specific data obligations, which I will later talk about, where insurance and on the other hand is now placed in a special privileged position – less obligation, less control, but especially a criminal act for what can happen in the areas of insurance and it is not good. The fraud can occur in different domains of society. It is not clear at all why insurance fraud would be singled out, except that it is very clever, and it is completely unnecessary to force the area of business and financial industry. By the way, there is no word in the explanation that explains this specificity. It is necessary to point out that the introduction of a large number of these special crimes into criminal law does not literally contribute to reducing crime and not to making it easier, rather than making it difficult for judges and public prosecutors to work, bringing additional confusion, and these legal qualifications are precisely a problem for judges and prosecutors. They simply have a negative impact on some general institutes, such as achievement and prolonged work, and that's what you'd be able to do, and you'd be able to do it honestly, to explain a lot better than I can as an economist. As if he had forgotten how "positive" influences had been modified by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which introduced special crimes of corruption in various areas – state administrations, education, health care and so forth. The position of our experts dealing with this criminal law is well known – that this type of work should simply be avoided. It is true that there is a problem in the application of the Criminal Code, but this kind of change will not fix anything, because the reasons for the existing case law are quite another nature, are much more awkward for you as a proposing, and therefore you avoid talking about it that way. So, to conclude, in most cases, we do not, of course, dispute that in several cases this is justifiable, international conventions cannot be a reason for prescribing new crimes, nor for extending the domain of criminal justice. As a third reason, you say, as a promoter, that more than three years have passed since the adoption of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, in view of the state of crime and criminal policy, you say it is necessary to tighten the impediment for certain crimes, which, according to the promoter, strengthens general prevention. Is that right? It's only been three years since the Penal Code entered into force, and it's, you'll have to admit, very little time to see the need for tightening the fines and to create real court practice from which we might conclude that it is necessary to amend one of the laws. In this way, I think that we are leading to unseriousness, because frequent changes in the case of fragile legal certainty pose an even greater and more significant issue. Part of the reason lies in the adoption of a large number of laws by emergency procedure. I'm sure you won't deny me. All those waiting for us in Europe dispute the need to pass laws by emergency procedure. We thank our top authors of the Rules of Procedure, who allow us to submit amendments until the start of the debate under a concrete bill when the procedure is urgent, because I repeat, we are not superhumans. In this dynamic work, and in this large agenda, there is no benefit to the urgent process in terms of improving the quality of the laws themselves, nor does any of us seek the urgency of the procedure. Once again, the criminal policy of the courts has nothing to do with the Criminal Code. The promoter actually wants to tell us, and this is a serious thing to remember, hear and learn, that the government is actually not satisfied with how the courts apply the Criminal Code and that it is necessary to increase the legal minimums of threatened penalties to force courts and judges to judge more strictly. You have allowed even, and as I personally object to you, that in the law on public information in the amendments of the Government, the court will impose a sentence, where the state administration is threatening the sentence and prejudicing the court's decision by saying that the court will impose a sentence. As President Tomislav Nikolic said, and Makijaveli taught those who seem to have remembered and read it, the hands of the state administration and the hands of the judiciary should also be struck. You forget that going to court was meant to go to justice. You can't see that in this code. Research shows that the perpetrator of a crime, when he decides to commit a crime, does not expect to be caught. An extremely harshly threatened punishment for him is not a limiting circumstance. The right measure of strictness of the threatened sentence is something to be worked on in a filigree, and that's where you could make a much bigger contribution. In particular, it should be pointed out that the actions for which the prison sentence has been threatened have been increased from three to several years cannot be subject to a shortened procedure which does not require an investigation and indictment, but rather an indictment proposal, and the criminal proceedings are carried out more quickly. There is much to be taken into account in the adoption of the amendments you have announced here. It should be said that the third part of the reasoning of the bill, which bears the name Explanation of Fundamental Legal Institutes, is absolutely no explanation or explanation, but a copy of those members of the law in the basic legal solution. Part four says there is no need to provide additional financial resources to implement this law. In fact, you, Mrs. Malovic, Madam Minister, say in fact that you do not intend to apply all the provisions of the proposed law, such as Article 7, because it is not clear how you will implement this member without obtaining the necessary technical equipment, which is contained in the solution of the member himself. Of course, I'll always be in a hurry and still have a rough violation of Article 164. Rules of Procedure, where the law is said to be extremely impeccable by an emergency procedure. Therefore, it is clear that the word exception implies an exception to the regular procedure and that exceptions must always be interpreted closely. Like many times so far, the government is not using a narrow interpretation, but this has become a rule of conduct. Since the time of the mandated promoter is running out, I can tell you that we will not vote for these laws as a Parliament club forward Serbia, and in a further debate, I will continue to explain the second law that I did not reach in this announcement to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24386	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by a folk MP, Snežana Sedlar-Kenig.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24387	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected representatives of the ministry, have already become a practice that opposition MPs express their disdain over the way the agenda points are joined together. As well as my distinguished predecessor colleague, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, to join these criticisms, because I do not think it makes any sense to combine seven points now on the agenda at the time provided for only one debate. It's not even correct at all. In this way, not only do you prevent us from considering every legislative proposal in detail, but you are putting us in a certain danger that during the debate in particular because of a large number of members, and therefore a large number of possible amendments, and now I do not have the exact information as to how many amendments are filed, I suppose that there will be enough, because of the business restrictions we may not even be able to discuss in details on a point such as the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, which is one of the essential laws that are on the agenda today. I must say that between 2001 and 2009, there have been more changes in criminal and criminal law in Serbia than in the last 20 years. I have to say that some of the changes were very justified and that they were heading towards certain solutions that solved the problems. On the other hand, I must also note that the representatives of the ministry, particularly in this mandate, frequent amendments to the law, passing laws at speed, multiple delays in the application of the laws passed, show a single dose of wandering in criminal law and in the legal area itself, which I find extremely unacceptable. Personally, I don't think that this helps solve the problem, but in some ways it worsens the situation in the judiciary itself. I'm primarily saying this because we had the chance to see that a certain number of laws prepared this ministry, they've already been adopted. They've caused huge criticism from the expert public. Some of these thoughts have also found their basis in the Constitutional Court’s decision, so he recently declared the provisions of the Law on Judges, and I think it is the provision of Articles 30 and 64, which I find unconstitutional. At this session, we have many legislative proposals, and because of the short time I have, I will unfortunately not be able to refer to any legislative proposal that is on the agenda today. I'll start with the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. I believe that our country has expressed its willingness to co-operate with the International Criminal Court by ratification of the Rome Statute, means a permanent court, with regard to bringing the perpetrators of the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Of course, there's also the act of aggression here, since we still don't have the definition of aggression, I don't think we're going to have it anytime soon, and it falls under the jurisdiction of the court, but when its definition is determined. Lately, we have been able to hear that most likely all procedures conducted before The Hague tribunal, and not completed until the time of the UN tribunal's completion, will probably be transferred to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. I must say that these thoughts are extremely inappropriate and that our public has no reason to fear this, because the International Criminal Court cannot act retroactively. Under his jurisdiction, only crimes committed after the entry into force of the Roman Statute may fall, which took place on July 1, 2002. In addition to the fact that the adoption of the Rome Statute is a huge number of Member States' votes, I think it is a number of 130, a huge achievement in the development of international law, I must say, and to express my doubts about the capacity of the court's work, given that the most important and most powerful countries of the world have not yet ratified it. Now, as always when we talk about the very validity of international law, we are putting the right of force on one side and on the other hand justice itself. The DSS has never avoided the international obligations taken over, and of course we don't do it now, but when it comes to the work of this permanent court, we express simple dissatisfaction, because we believe that those countries that most violate human rights have not ratified this statute, which will greatly reflect the functioning of the court itself. I don't think the basic idea contained in the provisions of the Roman Statute will be fully realized. I'd move to law enforcement for criminal offences of organized crime. I think it was necessary for this law to be passed, but we have no understanding of the amount of time that has passed since this law could be found in the procedure itself. I point out this primarily because I believe that the construction of a special prison sentence department has long been completed and exists. It is located in the Zabel correctional institution in Pogorevec and is located closer to the open part of the prison than to the closed part of the prison. I point out this primarily as one suspicion of security and protection as a guarantee of the possible escape of convicted persons, I must mention that it is the most serious perpetrators of the crime, who are sentenced to the longest sentence of prison. I believe that security conditions should be at the highest level in that sense. How we could find out, that facility would be able to receive only 100 convicted persons. If we add this to the fact that 36 organised crime groups, with 350 members and 360 persons of security, are currently operating in Serbia, then we can conclude that not even close to this capacity will be enough for all potentially convicted persons. I have to say, it's a good thing the construction of a building like this started. On the other hand, when I talk about this bill, I can't help but overstep the information that 10,260 are currently in all prisons in Serbia, which is condemned persons, which are detainees themselves, which are criminally punished persons. The real capacity of our prisons, if we want to meet all European standards, is 7,000. It's a big problem in this area, and I'd say one of the most important. In addition to a series of remarks that we have on this bill, which we have submitted to the amendment, and what will be more discussed in the discussion of details, I would only remain on two of the provisions which, in my opinion, represent the most important concerns we have. The first refers to a provision that says employees are referring to work in the Special Prison Penalty Department for no longer than six months, and the next article even says it can be shorter. I believe that this time is inappropriately short, that in this way it does not provide for the continuity of the work of the workers themselves, especially if it is known which duties are all in place and in the obligation to deal with persons who are certainly very interesting, that is, the most difficult criminals. For a short time, it prevents them from getting familiar with the habits of convicts in one valid way, because I think it is very important if they want to work with such a category of convicted persons simply to be relieved. With the frequent exchange of workers in the Special Department for the execution of prison sentences, in addition to not providing continuity, I think it is certain that the safety of the facility itself could be compromised and that is the basic reason why I explain this change. On the other hand, another provision is very controversial in this proposal, and it concerns reviewing the reasons for the execution of the Special Department prison sentence on each two, or in exceptional cases even after a year. I also note that if this provision were to be understood, then we can easily come to a situation where a convict who has been placed in the Special Penalty Department in Zabela after a year or two from the very beginning can be referred to a prison sentence in an institution where a later administrator, according to his internal system of work, can transfer him to any department of the given institution, even that open-minded type. I think this is a very bad solution. However, I think it was much better to predict some kind of restriction, more specifically, which is the time after which a court can even consider when a convicted person will refer to a prison sentence in the institution itself. We predicted in the amendment that we were working after one half of the suspended sentence. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we feel that there are insufficient reasons to put the Code of Criminal Procedure out of force. It would have been much better if conditions had been created for its proper preparation of public prosecutors for conducting their own investigations, and by improving some provisions of the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure. I must say that the Ministry proposed by the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure has very quickly realized that certain provisions of this Code are not the most brilliant solutions and have proposed certain amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure during their term of office. I ask the question – if the 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure is not a good solution, it is a bad one, which is why the largest number of provisions of this Code of Criminal Procedure are incorporated in the very proposal for a law amending and supplementing the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, more clearly to be, in this now law that is on the agenda. This was done very badly, unsystematicly and deviated from the very objective of the provisions of the Laws that he had, and all in order to change it in the opposite direction entirely. I am primarily referring to those worst changes, and in my opinion these are the obligations of the second-degree court to immediately resolve the case on its own after the removal of the first-degree sentence. There is no longer the possibility of abolishing the verdict and returning to a retrial at the first-degree court. It is true that only the length of the criminal proceedings is reduced in this way, but such a provision can have two very serious consequences as a result. The first can be the primary overload of future appeals courts, because it is very easy to get into a situation so that first-degree courts are not motivated to deal with, so to say that they are deepening, that they are brought into more complex criminal proceedings and that the simple subject matter after termination is simply forwarded to the Court of Appeal as a second-degree. On the other hand, a very important consequence is the absence of educational functions of senior courts in relation to lower courts. I mean here primarily from the point of view of encouraging the quality of the work of lower courts. Of course, the second huge complaint is the total abolition of two extraordinary legal remedies, namely the emergency mitigation of penalties and the requirement to examine the legality of a judicial verdict. Also, when it comes to the second-degree court's appeal, we feel that the reasons for its statement are too reduced and we cannot support such a solution. When it comes to the bill of amendments to the Criminal Code, I must say that the legislator has tightened the fines for one third of the crimes, explaining this by the desire to combat in one more effective way criminality. I have to notice that this is about an unscienceal and layman's approach, which in the end coincides with a general attitude of an unprofessional public that requires repression and which requires an increase in the penalties themselves, i.e. severe penalties. This cannot be explained in any other way, since it is neither scientifically founded, but exclusively as a method of collecting political points. If the legislator already criticises the courts for having a mild criminal policy, then I simply do not understand how in one version of the Bill on Amendments to the Criminal Code, the possibility of introducing a conditional conviction could be considered at all, even for fines. This now, thank God, doesn't exist in this bill, but I just couldn't help but mention it, because I had the opportunity and that bill to see. I think it's illogical that a solution like this has come up, because parole can be an alternative exclusively to a penalty for deprivement of freedom, not a fine. Provisions on the so-called House arrest is becoming very controversial because of the way they were just defined. It is said that when determining this sentence, the court will take care of the technical possibilities of execution. What does that mean? This means that the court will determine this measure if it has technical opportunities for it, if it owns an example, to provide a number of tracking bracelets. In another case, unless the court has technical possibilities, he will refer it to the detention of the prison in the institution itself. I think that in this way convicted persons are placed in an unequal position and this, in our opinion, is a discriminatory provision. Furthermore, the provision of a proposal to limit parole for persons who have tried to escape from prison or have already escaped, in our opinion, is completely unnecessary, because I simply cannot believe that there is any court in Serbia that could consider parole for those who have already committed this crime. I don't think it's necessary for this provision to stand in the bill. On the other hand, it is completely inappropriate to tighten parole in a situation where the general trend in European criminal rights is just to expand the possibility of determining such a measure. This provision is, in the extreme case, contrary to the Council of Europe's recommendation, which says that the closure of a person is very difficult for the countries and that research has shown that closing a person is very often due to a completely different purpose than the one expected, i.e. the fact is not fully encouraged. That is why it recommends that the duration of the prison sentence be limited in some way and as one of the possible means in that direction would be to extend the possibility of determining parole. Of course, we have a lot to say about the Criminal Code. I see my time is running out. As about this law, as well as other draft laws that are on the agenda today, we will plead both in the follow-up of this session, so, of course, and in the discussion of details.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24388	The word has been given to Snow White Sedlar-Kenig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24389	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation with the position of party G 17 plus which, of course, is my personal position on today's set of laws of criminal law. I am sure that by adopting these laws, we will take a step further into what is for the vast majority of our citizens, the citizens of this country, the most important thing for the return of the morals of this nation, but also to restore trust in judicial institutions, as well as people who deal with criminal affairs, and both the general and the organized ones. Of course, they're dealing with something that's for me, my party G 17 plus and, of course, our parliamentary club is the biggest latent evil of this country, and probably for the largest number of citizens of this country, the latent evil that devours all the pores of our society. This evil is called corruption and that phenomenon, the phenomenon of corruption, should be talked over and over again. They repeat what we all know, which is the fact that corruption is faced with almost all countries, especially countries in the transition process. I will remind everyone, and especially the citizens who are watching us this time, that the G17 Group of MPs plus submitted a bill on the fight against corruption and the confiscation of property acquired by crime in autumn 2006. Unfortunately, that law did not then arrive on the agenda of the previous assembly of parliament, or, moreover, the one that worked in 2006. We had elections soon. During the period of this government and this personal composition of the competent ministry, much has been done to prevent crime further. A series of law enforcement laws have been passed. I would now not be bothered by the auditorium by listing all these laws, but by referring to a set of these seven laws today in the criminal and legal area, which practically continues to bring domestic legislation into line with the UN Convention on Combating Corruption, the relevant conventions of the Council of Europe and the EU legislation. What is the obligation of all of us who are in any form of government, therefore, to exist whether in the legislative, executive or judicial authority, it is to ensure the guarantee of the rule of law, restore citizens' trust in the judiciary, in general, to the institutions of the judicial system. We must not forget that people, in fact, carry these institutions. An example of a legendary mob fighter, Falkone, who certainly wasn't killed because he was a prosecutor, but because he was such a mob and crime fighter. I'm going to look back at some newspaper that makes this set of laws. For example, in the case of amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, it is important to point out that it is absolutely precise in the act relating to criminal provisions and by prescribing responsibility for commercial offences for legal persons and a responsible and authorised person in a legal person. In addition to organised crime, the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, it is important to point out that corruption and other particularly serious crimes are being treated and processed in the same way. In the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, it is evident that it is primarily changed because of the terminology that has been adapted to the former state, that is, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which, of course, ceased to exist. The amendments were also necessary because of the commitments made by the Republic of Serbia by verifying a number of international conventions, and therefore it was necessary to introduce new crimes and amend the incrimination of existing crimes. It is quite justified precisely because of the state of crime in the Republic of Serbia which we know is, although the apparent shift in the best lately, tightening the fines for about a third of the crimes. I'm sure the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will welcome it. The so-called so-called "supervised" was introduced. a home prison, which is quite interesting to me, which allows those who have been sentenced to jail for up to six months, to spend that sentence, under certain conditions, in the space in which they live, under the obligation not to leave that space. This example shows the principle of economicity and savings. We know that in such cases it is easier to commit crimes for which it is absolutely uneconomic to carry out criminal sanctions in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, means in prisons. I would particularly refer to it, and also warmly welcome Article 26 of the Law, which complements the crime of a serious murder, by qualified as a difficult murder and deprivement of life of judicial officials or police officers in connection with the performance of official duties, i.e. persons performing public duties. In her opening statement, the minister explained to us what those persons are doing in matters of public importance, also in relation to the jobs that those persons are doing. What does it matter? I come from the municipality of Odzaci, in which exactly two years ago in the municipal court building, in the courtroom, during the court hearing, the death of municipal court judge Zoran Cvetanovic, also one representative of one of the parties in the dispute. That murder was disgusting. It has made a terrible impression, and we are all witnessing that such cases throughout Serbia are very much, that they are repeated day by day and that people who perform these types of functions must indeed have special protection, even if they have been threatened and thus materially-legislatively regulated such crimes. I believe that this series of laws really enables or at least will facilitate the achievement of those international values, European values, I would also say the civilization values for which the party G17 plus advocates, which is: the independent judiciary must be the essence of our rule of law. It protects the builders, first of all, from self-will and abuse of power and takes care that everyone at all times can exercise every right. Preventing crimes, protecting against public order and security threats, as well as detecting and persecuting criminals, offenders and criminals, is a necessary prerequisite for ensuring the freedom and security of all citizens of these duties. Crime prevention is truly the task of the whole society. Therefore, one who violates the right and thus opposes the values and values of our society must count on a consistent threat and a determined punishment. Now I'm going to quote my esteemed colleague from my G17 Plus MP club, who often says in his interviews, and he's been dealing with the issue of corruption for many years, when he's been asked by reporters if we need Elliot Ness, yes, we need Elliot Ness. I'm also saying, not one, but a lot of people like Elliot Ness, because we really need to be able to stand up to crime, who doesn't know the limits, just go against unlimited law. Our MP group has tabled several amendments relating to the level of measures given for certain criminal acts, but that will be the case when the amendments are discussed. We hope that these amendments will be accepted. This time on behalf of the G17 Group, I'm saying that because of all this I've put out in the voting day, we're really going to be for the adoption of this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24390	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, the SRS finds it scandalous that seven points of the agenda have been joined together. It's about extremely delicate and important regulations. After the Constitution, practically, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code are acts proving whether the state is democratic or not. The criminal code, i.e. the Code of Criminal Procedure, encroachs on the most elementary goods that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and every man in the world owns. While there was a death penalty it was life, today it is freedom and property, but given the fact that certain crimes can be punished for up to 40 years of life, then for some convicted persons such punishment indirectly means death penalty. Instead of the Serbian government insisting that each of these laws be debated individually, that the debate be as high as possible, that the debate should include as many MPs as possible, of course, without the need for the debate to be politicised, but that expert opinions be crossed and that a common conclusion is whether the proposed solutions are the best possible or something can be changed. Instead of the ruling coalition, which has been insisting on democracy, on European values, on fighting crime and corruption, on reforms, has been seeking to double the time for the debate, we have received something quite the opposite. We've got seven points of the agenda joined together. Some regulations are only formally amended and complemented. When you look at them, they're basically new laws. It took a long time for all these laws to be read, to write quality amendments on all these laws, or laws. The government obviously didn't care if we had a quality debate in parliament, the government cared that we should finish a job as soon as possible, and the quality of the job obviously wasn't a priority. This is not the first time the ruling coalition has served one drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, all these laws put on the agenda, except for the first law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, i.e. ratification of the Rome Statute, should be adopted by emergency procedure. The Rules of Procedure are very clear in which emergency situations are applied. "The law can also be carried out exceptionally by emergency procedure." When it is said "exceptionally" there should be particularly reasonable reasons to resort to such a procedure. In the Serbian Parliament, the situation is very different. What should be an exception has become a rule. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you remember when some law in this assembly was passed by regular procedure? As the legislative proposal arrives, it must be discussed by emergency procedure. When you look at why, always the same explanation, formally written, is essentially absolutely not standing – it will be the end of the world if this and that law are not adopted by an emergency procedure. ''By an urgent procedure, only the law governing issues and relations can be passed due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the passing of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse effects on the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. In writing, the legislator is obliged to state in the written explanation of the draft law the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the failure to pass this law by an urgent procedure. ''So, these two groups of conditions must be cumulatively met: and that circumstances could not be predicted and that, because of this, that is, the law-making process could result in the following adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. So all three groups of conditions must be met. It is enough to look at one of these draft laws, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and now look at the reasons for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure: it is proposed to adopt the law by emergency procedure for reasons that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the safety of the country to work by the state authorities. The conditions for emergency procedures have not been met because it is not indicated that adverse consequences for the lives and health of people could arise, and this is necessary in the Rules of Procedure. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure – or, rather, it does – for the lives and health of people, for the safety of the country and for the work of organs and organizations. So all conditions must be met. The promoter himself confirmed that one of the conditions had not been met and the National Assembly had no condition for this bill and many other draft laws to be considered by an urgent procedure. Now if we were to literally interpret what the bill says, then that would mean the following: if all these laws are not passed by emergency procedure, then that means that the security of the RS is compromised, that the work of the national authorities and organisations is at risk. In what way? Are we under occupation? Did something terrible happen? What extraordinary circumstances can happen in the state of Serbia if this law and other laws are not passed by emergency procedure? Then the state of Serbia is not a stable state, then there is something that the citizens of Serbia are not informed about, and before proposing a law, the government should inform us in what state we live in: in a regular or irregular, or an emergency? If it's a state of emergency, then let's see why. Not every law that comes into the assembly procedure cannot be written in a single sentence – if it is not adopted by an emergency procedure, there could be adverse consequences for the country's safety and for the work of the state authorities. How? In what way? Whether we will be attacked by terrorists, the NATO Pact, what will happen if the law is not passed by emergency procedure. You can't play with these terms like that. The security of the state will be compromised, but nothing else is written. That's an extremely important question. You can't scare the citizens this way. Citizens obviously don't know what terrible things can happen to them, their children, their friends, relatives, state, state authorities, because the government hasn't informed them about it. Only when we get the bill, if the MPs don't adopt the proposal to adopt the law by an emergency procedure will the end of the world happen. You can't play like that with the Rules of Procedure. You can't play with concepts like the life and health of people, the security of the state, the work of the state and the state authorities. That's big stuff. It depends on the life of the state and each individual citizen. You're passing the wine and brandy law by emergency procedure. If not brought, the country's safety is compromised. The law on hunting and fishing, the country's safety at risk. Animal protection law, country security at risk. What kind of way is that? It's repeated from law to law. It would be good if that practice were interrupted. Furthermore, we have here today on the agenda two acts that the Government says are the laws – Criminal Code, i.e. the law on amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The previous question arises – what is the code? The Code is a general legal act in which all legal norms governing one area of social life are systematised. So it's called codification. All legal norms are found in one place and then such a law, because it is codified matter, is called the law. Do we, ladies and gentlemen, have MPs, really codified criminal legislation? Unfortunately, we do not and have not met the conditions that neither the Code of Criminal Procedure nor the Criminal Code are called. They should be called laws. Why? Because in addition to this basic criminal law, material and procedural, we have unfortunately one very large, heterogeneous, subsidiary criminal law. In addition to the criminal code, we have a whole series of other laws that contain criminal acts and criminal sanctions. It's a similar thing with criminal-priced matter. In addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have, that is, adopted the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons and the procedure for determining the responsibilities of a legal person for criminal offences, you have the Law on juvenile offenders and the procedure against them. It is obvious that these two acts do not meet the basic conditions of being called legislators. You used to have in Byzantium, in the Eastern Roman Empire, the Justinian Code. He called it that because all the civil rights standards were contained in him and all the lawyers during the Middle Ages and later learned the basic principles of civil law from what Latin lawyers called a corpus juris civilis. It was a code - all in one place. You think it's enough to call some act a code and codify matter. That's not the answer. You can call this criminal code a hundred times, it's not a code, because if you take any law passed by the National Assembly and there you will find criminal provisions, prescribed criminal acts and criminal sanctions. That's proof we don't have coded criminal law anymore. This is more proof that the Serbian government, not only this but also the previous ones, does not have a good approach in proposing criminal laws, both material and procedural. It's known in legal theory. The basic standard of every well-organized state is that criminal matter is contained in as few laws as possible. Why? Because criminal sanctions are engulfed in the most fundamental values that exist in one society – life, freedom and property. There's nothing different for each individual of those three things. So, the government would have to try to make sure that all of those violent criminal provisions and criminal norms that exist in a large number of laws in the Republic of Serbia are actually systematicized in one place and then there are conditions to say: we have a Criminal Code, that is, the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is how we have the formal code for each other. Basically, these are ordinary laws, because besides those two laws, you have a whole series of other regulations that regulate the same matter of social life. In the Middle Ages, there was a Latin sentiment, which roughly says that criminal law is constantly to be reformed by jus criminal semprest reformandum. That's what it's called. This government has truly literally understood this sentiment. Since 2001, we have changed the Code of Criminal Procedure seven times. This, correct me, Madam Minister, if I am wrong, will be the eighth amendment to criminal-processing legislation in the Republic of Serbia, and the basic legislation, so as not to count on the subsidiary procedural legislation that was created from 2001 to today. You say, "So what?" It's not a big deal. In each well-organised state, a criminal procedure code shall be adopted once. The adoption of that code includes all those who can help make the code as good as possible, and the competent ministries, and the legal chambers, and associations of judges and law schools, if necessary and the assistance of some foreign experts, and then there is one text behind which all relevant entities in one country stand, not only politically but professionally, and then there is no need for the law to be changed each year. This turns out that every government that comes has its own criminal code and some criminal code. If you follow what they said, Mrs. Malovic, your predecessors at that function, they acted like you. Whenever they propose a code, they say this is a miracle unseen, this is nowhere in the world, this is the most modern, modern. It's been two years and it turns out nothing's wrong. Take the Code of Criminal Penalty. It says in an explanation, imagine the law on the execution of criminal sanctions was brought back in September 2005. It took effect on 1 January 2006. It's been 300 years and he has to change now. Is that a serious state? Is this a serious approach to human rights and freedoms? It is easy to talk in pre-election campaigns – human rights, we are for European standards; so prove it in practice. Bring in laws you won't change every year. As the minister of justice changes, he discovers a hole in the pot. No one lives knows anything about criminal law until a new minister arrives and then from the beginning. Tomorrow when some new government comes, she'll say that everything you're saying, Mrs. Malovic, is wrong. It was passed back in 2009, let's pass a new law. What about the principle of legal certainty? What about the principle of rights acquired? What about the basic postulates of the rule of law? These aren't laws that are banal. Because of these laws, or laws, someone can go to jail tomorrow, you can take away someone's property, you can tear someone's family apart, there can be a divorce, there can be anyone who knows what personal tragedies. You bring together seven laws. You're changing the laws of criminal proceedings as the government arrives. Then we have one total mess in all segments of law. This chaos is most dangerous when it comes to criminal law because human rights and freedoms are the most endangered. At least the MPs could have expected was not to combine the debate on all these laws, increase the time for debate and really make this debate a quality. This is just one conclusion: that the government wanted us to, as would be said by the colloquial language, put this job away, let's do it, let's say that we've got amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, that we've got amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. What the quality of these changes and additions seems to be the ruling coalition doesn't care. Then the National Assembly will soon appear to be in a position to re-change and supplement or bring new regulations from this matter. But that's not how problems are solved. The problem is solved by opening a professional debate that does not last a day. If you look at the draft law on the execution of criminal sanctions, public debates or how some say public hearings lasted one day. A roundtable was held on July 6, 2007, no one alive knew in Serbia that the round table was being held and then the government said – here, a public debate, were included all relevant entities, what do you want? It's not a public debate. Ask some law professors in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac if he heard of that round table, if he got a call. You're just saying the wardens of the correctional offices participated. It's your internal communication, it's not a public debate. The public debate is a debate involving someone on the side, not those within the system. All that was missing was that you wrote that the public hearing was attended by guards, doctors who were being treated in these prison hospitals. It's not a public debate. You have to invite people out of the legal system, so they can say their word, what's wrong or what's wrong with your draft, so that we can really come up with quality solutions. You understand the concept of public debate purely formally. Keep some round as much as possible in secret, maybe inform some of your associates, two or three media houses that pass it or do not pass it on and say – you held a public debate. It's not a quality public debate. Take any manual of parliamentary practice of any EU member state and you will see that there is a public debate or so on. Public hearings don't work like that, they last a few hours, we tell a story, and then we go for a cocktail. It's not a public debate. It's not the point, and it's not the way to come up with quality legal solutions. It would be good if the Serbian government had a future public debate as is being conducted in every civilised state, to inform all factors that had something to say about a particular draft of the law, that people were timely informed and that the public debate lasted longer than one day. It's impossible, I guarantee you, if you want to have a quality public hearing in one day to hold a public hearing on the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, the fight against organised crime, terrorism, etc. They're the greatest monsters of the modern age. The world's greatest experts are involved in writing these draft laws. It's not a small thing. You say you've held a round table that lasted a few hours. It's not a public debate. It's not a way to come up with quality legal solutions. I just won't be able to, due to a lack of time, talk about all these points of the agenda. My colleagues will try to complement me where I can't say everything I'm supposed to say. I'll tell you in these few minutes, how much time I have left in the debate, as an authorised representative, something about the language these bill proposals were written on. A few months ago, former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader visited the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24392	I thank you, if you won't use your MP's time. But we have another speaker, so I'll ask you to call back later. Vlatko Ratkovic, representative of the ZES parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24393	Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this parliament, this government and the resolution ministry headed by Mrs Malovic will be remembered for one of the biggest judicial system reforms in Serbia since 1945. I will remind you that last year, a few months ago, we passed a package of laws concerning the organisation of justice, so we passed laws on judges, prosecutors, a network of courts, jurisdictions, etc., and thus created a normative framework for the creation of an effective and modern judiciary and the affirmation of all our human resources in the judiciary. In the Republic of Serbia's budget, we provided funds for the implementation of these laws. There's still a big job ahead of you, among other things, these seven laws that are on the agenda today. In addition to these laws, I am convinced that in some future period, relatively short, most likely this year, we will pass several more system laws in the field of justice, a law on litigation, a law on notaries and other laws that are necessary for our legal system. The rule of law and the principle of legal certainty must surely require improvement of criminal law. The results in this area are visible, especially in the area of organised crime prevention, the prevention of criminal acts of corruption, the repression of criminal acts with an international element. But reality and practice determine one need for us to perfect these regulations, to fill them with certain new institutes, sub-institutionals, and precisely the essence of all these proposed documents, and that is what it is. There are several reasons for the adoption of all these laws that are on the agenda. We have also heard from Madam Minister that compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is one of the necessary reasons for the adoption of these laws. Another reason has been confirmed international agreements, i.e. ratifications that we have done in parliament in the previous period, and the alignment of our legislation with international documents that have been ratified. But most importantly, it is certainly the need to significantly reduce the crime rate in the Republic of Serbia. During the analysis and drafting of these laws, the standard of Article 3 came from Article 3. A criminal code, which says that human and other fundamental social values are the basis and limits for the determination of criminal offences, the regulation of criminal sanctions and their application, to the extent necessary to combat these acts. I'll also remind you that Article 4. The criminal code states that the general purpose of prescribing and giving criminal sanctions is to combat acts that harm or threaten the values protected by criminal law. In other words, criminal rights and criminal law do not end up in four walls of one courtroom, they are much wider, they protect the foundations of constitutional order, the foundations of the legal system, protecting man, his integrity, both physically, mentally, morally and each other. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I call on us to participate constructively in the debate, that both in principle and in particular with one good and quality analysis of all these proposed laws we come to the conclusion that they are really necessary to our legal system. The law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, as soon as possible, represents the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia which we have undertaken, but I must stress this, with respect for the right of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, through the principle of compromise of our legislation and our national, or judicial authorities. The amendments to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in a qualitatively different way better regulate the Institute of the Administration for the Enforcement of Institutional Sanctions, one more quality way to regulate the protection and rights of persons who are situated in the maintenance of prison sentences and comply with these provisions of this standard with European standards. The law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime is very important, given that organized crime is certainly one of the cancer wounds of every society and so is ours. Special crimes against constitutional arrangements and security of the Republic of Serbia have been arrested here, criminal acts of corruption in the case of top state officials, crimes of international terrorism, criminal acts of terrorist financing, as well as the crime of money laundering, if that money stems from organised crime, corruption and terrorist financing. The fourth in the set of these laws is the draft law on the execution of a prison sentence for the crimes of organised crime. Practice has shown that persons convicted of acts of organised crime are often able to continue to manage their "businesses" from the Penitentiary Office and to manipulate the remains of an organized criminal group and create a new criminal group. So something Al Capone was doing when he was in prison. It just takes one special regime to maintain the sentence of convicted persons, and this bill does exactly that. The Code of Criminal Procedure, therefore the Prosecution Act, something that regulates the conduct of criminal proceedings itself, from criminal charges to first-degree convictions, legal remedies, regular legal remedies, emergency legal remedies, an extremely important, necessary law, which applies first-rate judges, further prosecutors, defenders and other participants in the proceedings. With the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will point to a new institute in our legal system, which is the institute of a plea agreement. This is, as one has pointed out, the Anglo-Saxon Institute, but it has found application in many continental rights, in the rights of European continental states, and will certainly in one effective way contribute to the speed of the process, while at the same time it does not go to the expense of justice and justice. Therefore, the agreement between the defendant, i.e. his attorney and the attorney general, under strictly prescribed and standardised conditions, is something that will contribute to the faster and more efficient work of the judicial authorities and their processing. I'll remind you of an interesting piece of information. For example, in the U.S., only 3% of criminal proceedings have its finalisation in the court's case itself, while 97% of the proceedings end right through this institute of agreement between the defendant and his defender. The most important law of all is the Criminal Code and its amendments and additions. It introduces several new institutes and several new sub-institutes, which is given in the general part of this code, and also introduces some special crimes in a special part of the Criminal Code, as well as tightening the fine for the already existing criminal offences. The newspaper is the possibility that a prison sentence for up to six months is executed in such a way that a convicted person can endure a sentence in his prison, what we call a home prison or house arrest. I would remind you that the professional public welcomed the announcement of this new institute, which exists in many legislations, for several reasons. The first reason is the fact that every day spent in prison by a convicted person costs citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia about 30 euros. The second reason is that the stigmatization of a convicted person is largely amortized through this institute. Of course, here we must stress that the basic condition for saying, the application of this institute is a sentence of up to six months, for easier crimes, such as traffic with easier consequences or some other minor offenses. The criminal code, or its proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, introduces a new institute – work in the public interest. Furthermore, especially in the case of victimological surveillance, there are sensitive groups that are protected by the Criminal Code. These are all works of public importance – medical profession, general health workers, journalists, lawyers and others. The quality of this law is also reflected in the protection of minors. Many existing crimes are complemented by qualified forms of crime when victims, or minors, are damaged. A number of crimes are particularly protected by sensitive groups such as pregnant women, so the law uses a syntagma of burdensome women in the crime of serious physical injury. The protection of minors is also seen in the incrimination of criminal acts committed through computer systems. We are witnesses, reading the newspaper, and also from various stories, using various portals, certain individuals manipulate minors, and this crime is classified as a group of crimes against sexual freedoms. It should be pointed out that the existing penalties in our criminal law were relatively low for the most serious forms of crime. It is precisely the tightening of criminal policy, as has been done by the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, that will certainly contribute to a more effective fight against corruption, crime, organised crime. On the other hand, it will make it impossible for many criminal proceedings to become obsolete, which we were otherwise witnesses to see in the previous period. Therefore, it was a common practice of inefficient work of the judiciary and of low-prohibited penalties that led to relative or absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution. At this stage of the Parliament's work, I would like to say another sentence, that it is a syntagma – that justice is slow but accessible – must be changed, justice must be changed by being swift, citizens must be sure, our society must be protected by criminal law and against criminals. That's why I'm asking you all to support a set of these criminal laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24394	National MP Snežana Sedlar-Kenig from the order of MPs according to statements for a word in this joint principled search, but she is not there. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, here in this afternoon's discussion in principle, many MPs of the opposition have practically appealed to the minister that such serious laws that are before us cannot really be properly explained in a 20-minute discussion. There are a lot of laws, Madam Minister, because believe me, it's extremely difficult to say everything that could be said about these laws. It is totally unacceptable that the reasoning that these laws are passed is constitutional alignment. I will once again say that we have an obligation under the Constitution to pass the Law on the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, within 30 days of that law, and we have practically introduced a lex specialis Rules of Procedure here, to which we have great objections. We're practically having a hard time communicating, and it's amazing that we're proposing this situation, this new Rules of Procedure, with these new serious laws they're using, and it's just not good. Especially not good when we talk about this set of laws and the judicial system. As we know, we have a big job ahead of us waiting for the Justice Minister in general, which is the choice of judges. There are competitions in progress. Surely, during the summer and by the end of the year, it will bring great attention to the holders of judicial functions. The criteria are known. The basic problem, Madam Minister, in this part of the discussion I would refer to all this, practically these courts will enforce these laws that we are adopting in parliament today. A large number of judges in Serbia will be out of work. Not only that, but a large number of administrative workers will be in trouble. Now I would like to appeal to you that in the election for appeals courts you have in mind that such functions will be competed by people who will be away from the seat of the Court of Appeal and hundreds of kilometers, that it will be extremely difficult to organise all of this. From this place I appeal to you that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the courts find an opportunity for certain days judges to prepare themselves in their cities, because it is extremely important at least when not judging the days. I think that would be a good solution. As far as I'm aware, it's about that, but try to be as correct as possible for the holders of judicial functions, because it can happen that because of the problem of a large number of travels, distances, we lose those best judges who can fulfill all the tasks that are ahead of them. You must bear in mind that a large number of women are in the judiciary and that they are mothers who need to travel 100 kilometers and return during the day and do whatever is in their family. It's my good intention to point out from this place to you, to make adequate meetings and to see with the judges how it's best to regulate, at least in a transitional period. I'm sure the budget system will be loaded. There is not enough money to ensure the presence of permanent stay in these cities. Now I would like to refer to the Criminal Code, which was suggested that he be adopted by an urgent procedure. I repeat again, I regret that there is not enough attention being paid to the fact that lawyer people, and above all those who are exceptional practitioners in this matter, are more involved. One more time, I'm gonna say it's my biggest grudge. I'm sure it won't ring well for Europe either. You know that the legal lobby is extremely strong and that there are legal associations, international associations, which will surely respond to that in an adequate way they were not represented and informed in this adoption of the bill. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, I would have two objections, and that is above all to Article 7(6). So when after the word "12 hours or twice in a walk of the hour" is changed and it's up to 12 hours and up to two times in six hours. Why does it matter? If the proposed formulation was to remain as offered by the legislator, it could be misused because the unwarranted absence and arbitrary leaving of the premises in which it resides, paragraph 5, less than 12 hours, and in which case five minutes was left unsanctioned. Pay attention. It is a word that fundamentally changes the obligation of one who endures punishment in his apartment that he cannot abuse the situation. The same goes for this situation about two times six hours. Therefore, the bill, in Article 14, introduces the possibility that perpetrators of an extended criminal offence should be punished more than prescribed for that act. The construction of an extended crime was established in favour of the defendant. In connection with the front, contradictions would occur between the favourableness of the extended crime and the possibility of giving a more severe sentence than prescribed, and given that these changes in a number of criminal acts have increased criminal policy. So, in many cases, I think two-thirds, the penalty threshold rises. It's an extremely strict criminal policy. It should be noted, however, that in some situations it is not too strict. Keep in mind this member and this remark. Also, I'd like to go a little further on the execution of criminal sanctions. In Article 107, and I think this is extremely important, Madam Minister, because in practice there are frequent problems about it. In practice, more procedures are often conducted against the detained person in different cities. When seeking consent for detention, each court is called upon to conduct the proceedings. Take care, because that often leads to great confusion. So I'll tell you one more time, that's article 107. That's where you should pay particular attention. In Article 34, the first-degree court at the head office, he needs to practically, if he has delivered a gradual verdict, to be the one who wonders. If such jobs were to be transferred to the courts in which the head office is based, their work on other cases would be burdened and slowed. Since the first-degree court in the seat, for example, is the institution of a closed type with special security, such as Pogorec, responsible for overseeing letters to a person who has condemned, for example, the District Court, the Supreme Court in Zajecar, for example, and the person has a residence in the King, it is referred to the Court of Justice in the King for the maintenance of the sentence. The same person shall address the court for parole under the provisions of the CAP, which gave him the first degree sentence, and it would be logical if the court who has files on the person decides to follow his conduct, that he has insight into the activities for which he can deny correspondence. I think it's celery. Why should we now courts where the institute is burdened with this large number of cases when we already have cases in those courts that have done so? Of course, there is one detail that refers to employees in these offices. I think it's extremely harsh to punish 30% for minor injuries at work, because it's up to 20% for civil servants and tenants for minor injuries. I don't see any reason for these people working on jobs because of minor injuries can match 30% of their personal income. I think it's too high. That's not the way to look at it. The law says they're minor injuries. Finally, I will conclude, once again, the NS MPs have sent and submitted amendments, which we hope most of them will be accepted, that as much as possible will improve the law. Surely it wasn't such a short time, that we would try even harder to try to fix the laws, and I would ask you to leave enough time at any time next time, because the CAP and Criminal Law require a certain time to prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24396	The word has an MP, Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24397	Dear Presidents, MPs, respected minister and representatives of the Justice Ministry, at first I want to express my satisfaction and to commend the Ministry of Justice and the most judicial authorities, the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors because they have practically begun reforming the justice system and that all those laws that we passed in December last year did not remain a dead letter on paper, but are being handled by them. The reform was launched very seriously within the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors first by determining the number of judges, by setting criteria for selecting judges who, as we have received notice, have been confirmed by the Venice Commission that they are in line with European standards. The aim of the reform of the judiciary supported by the DS and behind which the DS stands is to enable our citizens to have the right to justice, to have the right to a fair trial and to be able to achieve justice within a reasonable period of time. The DS is leading the fight against crime and corruption, and this fight is impossible unless we make a comprehensive reform of the judicial system. In order for this reform to succeed, it is not enough to make only the choice of judges and prosecutors, it is not only personal changes that are needed to change our procedural legislation. With today's bill of law, I think that we will fully round up the change and reform of criminal law and that we will, I say, meet all European standards when it comes to criminal proceedings. Criminal proceedings represent only 30% of the total number of procedures. We have in all procedures about 160,000 items that are so-called. old objects, i.e. older than two years. About 80,000 items are in the process of execution. I therefore ask and expect from the Justice Ministry that in September, in autumn, they will propose a new law on the executive procedure and a new law on litigation, so that we can also manage to reform these areas. Of course, the reform would be complete. Another set of judicial laws needs to be passed. We expect the law on public notebooks, the law on law on law enforcement, the law on judicial examination and the law on the judicial academy, which is very important to make it impossible for us to fully undermine the influence of politics and nepotism on the choice of holders of judicial functions, i.e. judges and prosecutors. Today, we have several laws on the agenda, from which you would single out the most important Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code. If we do and look at the detailed analysis of the number of convictions, the number of cases and the duration of criminal proceedings, we will realize that in Serbia 4.316 cases have become obsolete in five and a half years, which is absolutely unacceptable. Criminal proceedings take more than 15 years. Today, there are only 92 criminal proceedings in the Belgrade District Court that last longer than 10 years. Justice that comes after 10 or 15 years is certainly not justice for the damaged. The biggest, most significant criminal procedure, the most famous in our recent history, is a criminal case against those who killed Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and has not yet been brought to an end. Six years since then, the procedure has not been properly completed for the reason that, according to the current CAP, we have three degrees, when it comes to acts for which the sentence has been threatened up to 40 years. With this bill, to our satisfaction, this three-step is being abolished, and in the future these procedures will have two degrees – first-degree and second-degree verdicts. One of the most important provisions of the CAP, which also aims to shorten the duration of the proceedings, is a provision relating to the law of the Court of Appeal only once to abolish the first-degree verdict, and once again the first-degree court delivers a verdict and by appeal, the Court of Appeals discusses it, must open the main search and decide on a metric matter. What is important to our citizens is that they know that when we pass these laws there will be no more countless first-degree judgments that the High Court abolishes and returns to the first-degree court and you can never reach the end of the trial. What's the point is that criminal proceedings don't last longer than three years, and I think this proposed Code of Criminal Procedure allows it. The good solution provided for by this law is also the solution introduced by the elements of the prosecution investigation. It was mentioned that there is now the possibility of a plea agreement between the defendant and the prosecutor, where the defendant and the prosecutor will be able to agree on the level of punishment, but what is important to point out is that such an agreement is possible only with the court's consent. No abuse by the prosecution is possible because the court gives consent to such an agreement. I think this way we're going to reduce the number of criminal proceedings, the duration of the criminal proceedings, and we're going to cut the court's costs. An important newspaper that our citizens need to know is a way of calling the defendant in court proceedings. When accused of having his address in court proceedings, his calls and all letters will be sent to that address and will be deemed to have been delivered neatly, whether or not he is found at that address, it is sufficient to leave the invitation or be impaled to the door. This enables an uninterrupted criminal trial to be conducted and to prevent the avoidance of courtship. All these provisions aim to achieve a significantly more effective criminal procedure, which I repeat once again, under the proposed laws will not last more than three years. An analysis of the convictions in criminal proceedings can determine that criminal policy in our country is unacceptable treasure. In recent years, the trend is that criminal policy is getting weaker and that trend is getting worse. Minimum penalties or penalties shall be imposed below the legal minimum. If we take as an example the crime of unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs or the crime of rape, we will see that more than 90% of the penalties are imposed, e.g. for the production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs below the legal minimum or at the legal level. You have, for example, a threatened sentence for this crime today for 12 years, and practically no greater sentence than three years that it has been imposed. For the crime of rape, 73% of the sentences are at a legal minimum or below the legal minimum. For the easier form of the rape crime 100% penalty is at a legal minimum or below the legal minimum. Such a mild criminal policy absolutely does not suit what is said to be a general prevention, i.e. it shows very clearly that it is not effective in the fight against organised crime or in the fight against classical crimes. By sharpening the penalty, we send a very clear message to potential perpetrators of criminal acts that they will be discovered and will be severely punished. The proposed Criminal Code tightens the fines for about a third of the crimes. What's important is that more for certain crimes, the most serious crimes, related to drugs, related to rape, subjugation, abuse, the promise of a minor, trafficking and human trafficking will no longer be possible to impose penalties below the legal minimum. That minimum is now fixed, and underneath it you can't go. What does that mean? No drug dealer will be able to avoid jail anymore and no court will be able to sentence a prison for selling drugs, whether he sells five grams or five kilos of drugs. The minimum sentence is three years in prison. The same goes for those convicted of rape. I can't get through without a minimum prison sentence of three years. The criminal code introduces a new criminal offence, in fact, introduces several new crimes, from which I would single out the crime of carrying arms and the use of weapons in a public place, where prison sentences have been threatened for two to ten years. So far, we've had a situation where, according to the Arms and Ammunition Act, mostly fines or parole are imposed, and now we're going to have a situation where a prison sentence is pronounced for unauthorized carrying weapons, and I think this is a clear message to criminals that if they want to walk around town with guns, they're going to end up in prison. In the end, I want to send our citizens a message that the reform of the judiciary that we are implementing by passing laws that are on the agenda today will allow Serbia to face crime courageously, and that once and for all it is determined and clearly says that crime and corruption are socially harmful, that it will no longer tolerate our community, and that Serbia is not and will not be a haven for criminals and speculators.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24398	Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24399	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP is, normally, against crime, is for fighting organised crime, fighting corruption and for the most serious types of crimes. Simply put, LDP is for the rule of law. If it's for the rule of law, it means it's also for the rule of law. At the same time, we are for judicial reform. The LDP is also in favour of reforming law in the area of criminal law. Therefore, we are in favour of reforming all these laws that are now on the agenda of this congregation. Starting with all this, I would just like to point out that, thanks to this assembly's decision to bring together the debate on seven laws that have reached the agenda of this assembly, the LDP has 14 minutes and 24 seconds to declare these laws. That means on average about two minutes per law. One more serious analysis of each of these laws has been completely disabled for LDP. For that reason, I can only tell you in general what my parliamentary group and what the LDP thinks of these united laws. I would also like to point out that by reading the reasoning of these laws, we can see that all these laws are proposed to be put on the agenda by emergency procedure. These laws are laid down by an emergency procedure on the agenda, which is contrary directly to Article 164. The Rules of Procedure, and this congregation boasts that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are extremely adhered to and that nothing other than the provisions of the Rules of Procedure will apply, and for us this Rules of Procedure is a holy letter. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the position of Article 3 of this Article 164, which says that the legislator is obliged to state in writing the adverse consequences that would result from the non-compliance of this law by emergency procedure. By reading the reasoning of these laws, I have indeed found no more serious explanation for the adverse consequences if these laws were not passed by an urgent procedure. The next thing you know in the reasons of these laws is the fact that all these laws, in fact, are passed, that is, the laws whose amendments and additions are sought, were passed during 2005 or even one law and in 2009. This is the one on amendments to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is now being proposed, and otherwise the law was passed at the beginning of this year. About three years ago, these laws were passed, which had already arrived on the agenda of this congregation to change. What's the problem? The problem is, let's say, that the laws are generally adopted by the o-arm principle, and don't worry about respecting basic principles, basic principles for law-making. It's actually two principles to pay particular attention to. One principle is that each law must be general enough to generalise the material it processes, so that it can show through its general content the real strategy of whoever proposed the laws, and also the laws must be sufficiently concrete and lifelike, so that they can be applied. What to say about these laws that have already arrived on the agenda after three years, and one even in a few months, to change, supplement, etc. It's one of the basic grudges. We accept the argument that there have been some changes in the status of this country in the meantime. We also understand that a new constitution has been brought in, and we understand that certain conventions have also been signed. These are all reasons for proposing changes and additions. However, when we start to analyze each of these laws and look at the explanation for each of these laws individually, then we could put in certain objections. For example, the Criminal Procedure Act was due to enter into force on 1 January 2006. Normally, it's delayed. I remember that at the end of 2008, we were in panic doing changes and additions to that law, so that the law wouldn't happen by chance, because in that case, and in every honor of presummation of innocence, many colorful characters were moving the streets of our cities, for that reason because we weren't ready, there was no prepared ground for the application of Article 555. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which envisioned the transfer of jurisdiction from the court to the prosecutor's office and police. So it's obvious that this law was also passed by emergency procedure, according to that ad hoc system, come on, let's get some statistics, here, we've passed so many and so many laws. It's not really the law-making goal, that we bring them to the crowds, but that we pass laws that will apply. It is not the aim of bringing the law to an end and to catch a spider in it, but to regulate certain segments of the life and society of a state, so that we would indeed be a legal state in which the rule of law applies, which is the basic assumption of the democratisation of society. The goal is for the law to live and exist. We've brought a lot of laws in the course of last year and a part of it and in this year we've brought an emergency procedure. We have passed many laws by emergency procedure even though we have predicted that the application of these laws be delayed for several months or even a few years. Then why the passing of these laws by emergency procedure? Then why didn't we bring these laws instead? Maybe it wouldn't be an emergency procedure if they were already so necessary to bring them in right now, but we were bringing in some others that we'd be applying who knows when and maybe never. It's one of the most important issues regarding these laws. When we read the arguments of these laws, the proposer noticeably calls for article 194. The constitution also says that it is necessary to make changes and amendments to these seven laws, and I underline, the two laws are basic, they are criminal and procedural laws, because the legal order is unique under the Constitution, because all laws and other general acts must comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and as a third reason that the laws and other general acts in the Republic of Serbia should not be contrary to confirmed international contracts. This member of the Constitution is very clear. However, if the government adheres to this member and supports it, moreover, this member implements in the light of all these draft laws, then why did the Government not find it appropriate that a month does not give an answer when, not whether, if so, to abolish the regulations, sublaws which are contrary to the laws, to the positive regulations of this state, not by one law, but by more than one law, as they are contrary to the Constitution and a ratified international contract. A month of LDP does not get an answer to a specific question, which is crucial because we are calling for respect for the law, respect for the Constitution and respect for the ratified international contracts, which, according to this member of the Constitution, have primate compared to domestic laws. I'm saying this for that reason because we really have to adopt the principle once that we can't solve problems from today until tomorrow, once like this, tomorrow, but we have to have generalized principles and principles, then we'll stick to it, we'll have a procedure, and it's the procedure that restricts someone's will, restricts and prevents anarchy, and in fact it's the basis of a legal system, which is really necessary for a society to survive and that a country works. So, if it's all clear about this, so the LDP's position and policy on the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the law on changes and additions to the Law on the Organisation and jurisdiction of the State Authorities in countering organised crime, amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, etc., then there's nothing I can say but that we support all the reform efforts of this government, hence the reform efforts aimed at improving the legal system, and to improve the reformable in the essential laws of criminal law. Since I have no more than one minute left, I would not be able to specifically refer to certain provisions of these laws, but I would like to point out one digression, which is what tightening the penalty measures are all about. We accept the tightening of penalties, especially for those crimes which are extremely difficult or which are directed towards minors, such as the promise of a child and the like, but we consider it not to be an increase in sanctions if by a year or two you are raising the lower limit, so the minimum penalty, and in two years' time, the maximum penalty, because if this law is also looked at, or a member of the abuse of official office, which unfortunately remains in this law, which also provides for a very high penalty, and that member of the law, you will allow, is a relapse of the past, I think the small difference between punishing the child's promise and the abuse of official position.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24400	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24401	Thank you. The Honored Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the motions, citizens and citizens, are before us, as we have already known, a set of laws that make up the Bill on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, the Proposal for a Law on Co-operation with the International Criminal Court, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Facilitation of Organized Crime, the Proposal for a Law on the Penal Crime of Criminal Crimes, the Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of Criminal Procedures, the Criminal Code, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, are before us. These are, above all, pro-European laws aimed at democratisation society, the establishment of the rule of law and the protection of human freedoms, which the G17 plus party itself is seeking, and will therefore support this set of laws. The adoption of these laws should create the necessary legal environment for the conduct of criminal proceedings and the effective repression of crime, as well as the protection of the Constitution and international acts of guaranteed human rights. In my presentation today, I would like to put an accent on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code was passed in September 2005, and since that period, there has been a change in state status, a new constitution has been adopted, and the Republic of Serbia has signed and ratified a number of conventions that require their implementation into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to change certain things. The proposed law tightens fines for about a third of crimes, strengthening general prevention and deterring potential perpetrators. Otherwise, I'd certainly welcome the changes in head 18. Criminal code, crimes against full freedom. Articles 47 to 53. The proposal for this law has been tightened by penalties for the following acts: rape, promise over an powerless person, promise with a child, promise of abuse of position, illicit sexual acts, intervening in the conduct of prostitution, subjugation and enabling sexual intercourse. Also in order to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, measures have been carried out to show pornographic material, to use children for pornography, and new crimes have been introduced, that is to suggest a minor to attend full-time actions and to use the computer network or to communicate with other technical means to carry out crimes against semi-freedom against minors. I would also like to point out that because of the fall in moral values and the increase in abuse of minors, it is possible to consider increasing the criminal measures in Articles 54 and 55. A proposal for this law, and I believe that the minister has taken all the necessary steps to ensure that there is no accidental abuse of Article 7 in the case of existing criminal measures. Articles 56 to 62. The laws have been amended against marriage and family, where I would certainly commend the proposed changes and remind myself that there is a threat to criminal acts of domestic violence. The EU Commission's 2008 progress report on Serbia stated that domestic violence remains a serious problem and that criminal penalties are insufficient, and I would take the opportunity to point out the possibility of increasing these criminal measures as well. I would also point out that the characteristics of domestic violence are not mandatory in that the victim and perpetrator of violence share a common place of residence, but a family relationship and a specific relationship between them. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a murder among former spouses. In addition to the above, I would also point out the possibility of tightening the criminal measures in Article 62 relating to gender depravation. In any case, I am extremely pleased to mention that this reform of the judiciary and these laws is in line with the national programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU and I note once again that the G17 Group will support the set of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24402	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24403	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Malovic, it is indisputable that there are a number of very important laws in the area of criminal law. He would join colleagues who pointed out the mistake made by the ruling coalition by uniting discussions on these laws. But in this statement in principle, I would like to focus in general on the justice policy conducted by the Ministry of Justice, and certainly part of this policy is implemented in the proposals of these laws. I want to say that the solutions that are now defined in these laws, primarily in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal to amend the Criminal Code, cannot be seen separately from those changes that we had the opportunity to discuss in the autumn. Organizational changes in the judiciary. I would say that the whole policy seen in these changes actually has one goal to discuss, of course to present an opinion, and that goal is a quick trial. Simply, when you see how the reform of the organisation is set up, how procedural reform is set up in criminal and legal legislation and when you look at the ultimate intensity of changes to the Criminal Code, then it is actually a key goal and organisational, and procedural and material changes to the fast trial. What is the fundamental question of society? Is the interest of society a quick trial or is the interest of society something else? Is the interest of society justice and what is said – judicial truth? Is the interest of society just to establish the true truth about a particular criminal-law event and to satisfy justice when it comes to damage? The question arises whether a quick trial, which is the goal, seems to be at the expense of these two values? When we look at changes in the organisational sense, which is primarily a reduction in the number of judges, in a procedural sense, it's a narrowing in one part of the rights of the accused, there are some solutions that I'm going to talk about where these rights spread, but dominantly in the amendments to this criminal procedure code is narrowing down the rights of the guilty and the intensity of the Criminal Code to tighten the criminal policy with the aim of general prevention, then the question is, what do we get in the collection as a result? We get that, in fact, the message of the legislator is that by reducing the number of judges, by tightening the criminal policy and by reducing certain rights of the accused, we will achieve this goal. That's for discussion. This is controversial, and we at the DSS believe that this is not a way to achieve a fundamental change, which is that, through the short duration of the proceedings, judicial truth is established and justice is achieved. There are ways to do this and Minister Malovic is from the judiciary and knows very well what the problems are in procedures. The biggest problem in procedures is the correct determination of the factual situation and the provision of all participants in the procedures to ensure their presence in the scheduled searches and to establish material truth through the factual state. The second problem we have through practice, which began in the 1990s with a major judicial drain, is whether the judges are educated and able to apply material law to that fact. That's the basic problem. The question now arises – whether rapid determination of the factual state and quality of application of material law can be achieved by reducing judges and tightening criminal policy. It's a fundamental question, and that's actually the intensity of these changes in the judiciary. We don't think that's true. Instead of taking a more serious analysis of why participants in criminal proceedings, witnesses, defendants, witches, avoid being present. have the opportunity to avoid being present in the search, to make that analysis and to find measures through better delivery policy, through perhaps greater punishment of the participants in the criminal proceedings themselves, in order to avoid them in the search, and thus to end the search quickly, so that after more serious approaches to the education of judges, we think that this is a serious problem, so as not to increase the degree of abolished judgments, which is a major problem in the judiciary, we now, in this change of criminal legislation, in particular in the Criminal Procedure Act, have something else. We have an extension of the grounds for detention. We have an expansion of the possibility of a search of the apartment. We've got an emergency legal review. We have narrowing down the possibility of a complaint against second-degree court decisions. Will this ultimately lead to the determination of the truth, to the correct determination of the facts, or will we, when we adopt these solutions, blame whoever is already suspected or accused in the beginning? He will have the impression in the public that he has already been convicted and very little opportunity to prove, through court proceedings, that he is not responsible. That's what we need to discuss here. We believe that reducing the number of judges, without a serious strategy on their education, will not lead to their ability to properly apply material law and to increase the number of confirmed decisions. This contributes to the efficient and short duration of proceedings, not narrowing procedural rights in procedures, which this law provides - general prevention through tightening of criminal policy. We don't mind increasing the fines, but it's not a problem in the judiciary, and we all know it very well, it's a matter of law enforcement, measuring the penalties that judges are doing. It's not about the height of the threatened punishments. We have a large number of crimes where high-level criminal offences are threatened, but we also have a criminal policy such that, after a fact is established, whether as a result of the ignorance of the judges, whether because of possible corruption, criminal policy is such that it does not act preventively against a possible potential criminal offence. We're not working on criminal policy changing, we're working on increasing the sentence. It's, uh, a respected minister, a populist measure. A purely populist measure that does not ultimately lead to the level of penalties imposed being such that it acts preventively on potential perpetrators. As far as the scope of new crimes is concerned, there are values, and we absolutely support, there are a number of values that are being protected here by new crimes, and that's all right, and that's quite certain that as life imposes new challenges, new values that need to be protected by criminal-legal sanctions, it means that the introduction of new crimes is not disputed, but no matter what this law acts on the outside, so it's tempting for citizens, here are the penalties being tightened, here are the new crimes, if there's no fundamental application in the case of judges themselves, criminal policy will have no effect. I mean, and I'm giving the DSS's position that it's gone completely wrong, I'm not going to call reform, what's going on right now. The effect of this will be seen after January 1st. I count that organizational changes will create additional chaos in the judiciary. We already have announcements of such opportunities, in the sense that individual judges, all of us who are in the judiciary, have the opportunity to listen to conversations among judges, will be the question of how this kind of trial will work to go from place to place, what it will look like, just when it comes to these procedural opportunities and the problems involved in the criminal-law process itself. The solutions that have been given here, primarily in the Code of Criminal Procedure, will not lead to the intended effect proposed by the Ministry here to be carried out within the shortest period of time, which is that the participants in the procedure know what is true. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted a number of amendments and will be pleased to discuss this in detail and exchange views with you. We believe that these amendments can certainly contribute to a more significant improvement in these laws. As for the amendment to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, we had a serious debate when this law was on the agenda. A few months later, we got into a situation to change that law. I'm here to say that what we were talking about back then, I'm going to look at only one aspect of that law, and that's the obligation of a lawyer to make all those records that lawyers turn into Alexa Zunjic's own places, spies who need to spy on their clients and reduce the trust between lawyers and their clients, has proved to be a legal profession, lawyers' associations in no way accepted it. You have a serious and severe reaction from the bar and by the Vojvodina Bar itself, you have an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this law. I know that you, Mrs. Malovic, did not defend the law then, at the time was the promoter of the Ministry of Finance, we see that it is proposed here to be Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, but since you are from the judiciary, I am using this opportunity to point out that it would be good for the whole law to undergo serious changes, because it will largely create mistrust when it comes to the legal profession, the role of a lawyer in a society that is not small. This is where we heard from some colleagues from the ruling coalition that a new law on attorneyship should be passed and certainly cannot contribute to the important role of the lawyer he has in these laws that you propose. The DSS parliamentary group cannot support these solutions that you have proposed here, but we are certainly waiting for a debate in particular, and that is where we will present our objections specifically to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24404	The word is from the People's MP Vuk Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24405	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to start by saying a few things about today's debate of some authorised representatives when certain opposition parties are at stake. We have listened, since authorised representatives have 20 minutes to talk about the laws that are on the agenda, that some of them have been talking for ten minutes about the unification of the debate under these laws. As we know, the debate on the laws, except at the plenary session, can be conducted on boards, the opposition does not come to the committees in charge, and we have seen that no debate on committees has been conducted. This debate on committees could take a lot longer. The others may have talked about these laws for 7-8 minutes, which tells me clearly that the proposed laws in the field of justice are well written and that they are of quality. I also want to say that, when these laws proposed by criminal law matter were very important laws relating to judicial reform, we passed laws last year relating to the area of judicial regulation, on the public prosecutor's office, etc. and this is one set of laws, I would agree with certain colleagues who spoke about it, which are extremely important, the Constitution is the most important legal act, but after them and these laws. Thirty percent of all court proceedings are conducted in criminal law and I think these laws for comprehensive judicial reform are very important. As far as certain laws are concerned, especially regarding the Code of Criminal Procedure, I think it's important that the trial be held within a reasonable period of time. The trial shouldn't take too long, of course, not too long, but it has to last within a reasonable time. It is not normal for certain criminal-legal proceedings to last for 10 years or more. Therefore, these new law on criminal proceedings have certain provisions concerning the speed up of the trial, certain provisions also apply to the suspension and suspension of the main search, procedural discipline, legal remedies, etc. It is important to point out that when it comes to defining organised crime and certain provisions in this area of the Criminal Procedure Act, some newspapers that are introduced in connection with special investigative techniques are also important, in particular to organise in detail the institutions of the witnesses of the co-workers and the undercover investigator. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, I think it is very important to point out that the existing criminal policy was not good and that it is important for certain crimes, especially when it comes to acts against life and bodies, against full freedom, to strengthen criminal policy. We had, counterpart Konstantinovic pointed out when it comes to criminal policy in certain crimes, rapes etc. in 75 or 73% of cases, which I don't think is good, and it's important to increase criminal policy when it comes to certain crimes. There are also new concepts to be pointed out, which is a job of public importance, in order to strengthen criminal and legal protection, especially sensitive professions, such as journalists, health workers, etc. and the introduction of some new crimes. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, it is important to point out that the extension of certain responsibilities relating to the specialisation of state authorities in the fight against organised crime and that I am primarily referring to enlargement in connection with criminal acts of corruption in matters of top state officials and crimes against terrorism, terrorist financing, etc. Also, a very binding law on the law is a law on the execution of a prison sentence for the crimes of organised crime. It is necessary to prevent any possibility of being convicted indirectly, through other people who have remained at large, from organising and directing certain criminal groups in order to combat organised crime more effectively. It is also important, when it comes to prison punishment, given that the rights of convicted people are limited here, by passing a special law, I think it is only possible to create one of these sensitive balances between the need for society to protect itself from organised crime and the need to comply with certain standards in the field of human rights condemned. These laws, particularly the activities of the Justice Ministry in general, show that the state is ready to deal with organised crime and corruption, I would say both with terrorism and international terrorism. I think that we, as representatives of parliament, should give, encourage and support both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent state authorities, courts, the public prosecutor's office, to fight organised crime and corruption by all means. What is most important is to restore the trust of our citizens in the judiciary, the prosecution, the competent authorities that fight organised crime and corruption, that it is also important that I want to, frankly, tell you that I believe that these laws will dramatically improve the work of these competent authorities, but I also want to believe that we are sending these laws a clear message that there will be no place for organised crime in Serbia and we are sending a clear message that crime is never worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24406	Thank you, Mr. Dincic. The magistrate, Jorgenka Tabaković, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24407	Since, in the time at my disposal as authorised on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I have only commented on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, I hope to be able to comment on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, and my colleague Bozidar Delic will use the rest of the time to discuss all other laws in this area. I followed closely, Madam Minister, when you explained, not with much passion in my taste, these laws, but it's probably a question of style. But there's one inaccuracy. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, you have defined the need for these amendments and additions as a precision of the provisions. I can't blame you for putting this law on the line because this year, it has proposed and explained the other ministry, the finance, but it's not a matter of predicting the provisions. We should announce to the citizens that when the law was passed, it was omitted to define a criminal policy for a responsible person in a legal person and an authorised person in a legal person, as these amendments and additions do. So, a law that has only five members, of which the fifth entry into force is, and in fact, it comes down to Article 4, which provides for fines of 10,000 to 100,000 for a responsible person and from 10,000 to 100,000 for an authorised person in a legal person. Then three other members were put in, three, two, one, where Article 2 defines legitimacy, appearance and other, the badge with the identification number. Article 3, as well as Article 4, defines penalties, but for some other failures. It is also interesting to Article 1, which should have helped the consistency of these small changes, I thank you, I don't know whether you or the Ministry of Finance, and in fact point to an inadmissible double approach to defining the laws that are important to us, which should prevent money laundering. In Article 1, you have deleted both the bounds and the obligations of those obligors to provide you with specific information and to verify the data delivered to all those persons, persons and actions that may be risky and which are subject to this law. You did it by saying you shouldn't do a special check on that data, thinking that this check is always done the same way when it's necessary. I took advantage of this opportunity to submit an amendment that I am actually asking – that bonds and those to whom you have imposed obligations to supply data, with the specific checks provided for by banks, authorized exchangers, investment fund management companies, voluntary pension, brokerage companies, insurance, add financial leasers, item 5). It's not a debate in particular, it's not a debate on amendments, as someone throws away, it's the essence of the debate in principle. Madam Minister, if you don't know, the government of which you are a member has brought her to the Official Messenger No. 46/2009 Guidelines for the risk assessment of money laundering and development financing, as a document that should enable the implementation of the law in which we participated. There is a point 5, where bonds of which this risk depends are currently treated, indicated that there are geographical, party risks and some other risks, namely – that risk groups are those where they are often and unexpectedly established, without economic justification, business relations with multiple banks, such as the opening of multiple accounts, the conclusion of multiple membership contracts, now on voluntary pension funds, or more financial lease contracts with multiple financial lenders. Point five precisely defines a group of those who need to do a special data check to be delivered to you. Why was the financial lease released? Is it supposed to be a valve for those who are declared, and I'm allowing myself the right to experience saying that you're supposed to be fighting money laundering practices? I hope you understand as I understand it, the proposal, where the forgotten criminal policy is now being added to the responsible and authorized person. It will also be an amendment, because it must comply with the Law on Economic Crimes because of the consistency of the overall system and that you will be those you are with the documents and as provided for by the European Directive No. 60 from 2005, which is the basis for the adoption of this document, and that the law, which we missed to make good enough in the first adoption, will be improved this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24408	He has the word of Mrs. Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24409	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are the contemporaries of actually the comprehensive reform of the judiciary in us, both the judiciary and the reform in terms of criminal law. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. As there have been reasons to pass this law so far, I would like to refer to the explanations of individual solutions. In Article 9 of the Act amending Article 18 The Code, and in accordance with the understandings of modern science, is a more precise procedural principle – free evaluations of evidence and principle and dubio pro reo, which so far did not know. I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice and point out that the problems of practice have been detected and transferred, normised in the draft of this law. Provisions of Art. The 10th to 18th of this law provides for changes that are primarily caused by changes in the organisation of courts. What exactly is this about? So, by introducing appeals courts and the Supreme Cassation Court, instead of the current Supreme Court of Serbia, and by adopting a new Criminal Code, the searches in which the composition of the council has been changed. Because the Council of the Supreme Court has so far been attended by judges jurors, now this provision is changing and participating judges are professionals, it is already the fact of three professional judges. The most important change is in Article 18 of the Law which provides for the erasure of paragraphs 4 and 5 in Article 75 of the Law, which, under certain conditions, enabled the control of correspondence by retaining and reviewing letters between the detained, accused and his defender during the investigation procedure. The defendant is classified as a group of entities that can be correspondenced with a prisoner, without the supervision of an investigative judge. The proposed amendment is in line with international legal standards in the area, and the solution so far has not been logical, since if the conversation between the detainee and his defender cannot be tapped, which is normised by Article 75 paragraph 2 of the Law, it is logical that his correspondence must also not be read. The newspaper, which I also consider important for the provisions of Articles 31-43, sets out the steps of procedural coercion, among which the most attention is paid to detention. More specifically, it is proposed to introduce a special for the parties to the public hearing for the maintenance and suspension of detention, and the absence of properly called parties does not prevent the holding of the hearing and making a decision on detention. Since there's a big delivery problem in practice, that's how change solves this problem. Thus, Article 27 of the Law introduces the possibility of sending a call to a witness via e-mail or another electronic message carrier. It is very important in this part of the exhibition to point out the institution of delaying the criminal prosecution that has been arranged. What exactly is being solved? The public prosecutor was given the opportunity to, without the court's consent, delay criminal prosecution for crimes for which a sentence of up to three years in prison was threatened, or with the court's approval when it comes to a criminal offence threatened by more than three and up to five years in prison. It also gives the public prosecutor the opportunity to press charges directly for crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to eight years. So far, there has been talk of this institute of plea agreements. It is true that this institute, usually and characteristic of Anglo-Saxon criminal proceedings, is still widely accepted in many continental-European legislations today. This institute, in our legislation, could lead to a faster end to many criminal proceedings and cost cuts, yet it does not jeopardise the interest of legality and justice. That is also the basic reason for introducing this institute. Of course, it is also important to specify amendments to Article 377. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the second-degree court's obligation to hold a search and to rule on the case, if it has already abolished the first-degree verdict and returned the case to a new trial of the first-degree court. This aims to reduce the length of criminal proceedings and increase the level of responsibility of the second-degree court. Furthermore, it is necessary to point out that, for reasons of integrity, two emergency legal remedies have been deleted, and this is an emergency mitigation of penalties and a requirement for the examination of the legality of a judicial verdict. A whole chapter of the proposal for this law that we are talking about today refers to the works of organised crime, which is governed by the Institute of Witnesses of Associates and other Institutes. I believe it is an extremely good law and MPs of the Democratic Party will support this bill and the whole set.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24410	The word is Mr Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll try to pick up where I left off. A few weeks ago, the Republic of Serbia was visited by former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and on that occasion promised to help, and his government, the process of European integration in the Republic of Serbia, and among other things, promised to give a large number of translations, of course, in the Croatian languages of European regulations, that we do not have to torture ourselves. We understand Croatian, so it will be easier to adopt the laws that the EU requires of us, since the thorny way of translating thousands and thousands of European regulations has already made Croatia. Otherwise, Croatia loves us very much, so that we do not suffer like them, so they will give us their translations and then we will join the EU more easily. I thought of it because I saw, Mrs Malovic, that in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions, among other things, you predict that the word "adoptor" should be changed to "adoptor". I wonder if you call Mr. Vukcevic a war crimes prosecutor or a prosecutor, if we are now seen by viewers or viewers. Is there any end to the introduction of those words belonging to the Croatian New Speech Corps, invented by Franjo Tudjman, to essentially turn the same Serbian language into Croatian. If you say the adoptor is the adoptor, then you'll have to change thousands of regulations in Serbia and tell the prosecutor, the viewer, etc. Then change the function of Mr. Vukčević, so let him call himself the War Crimes Prosecutor. Then the lawyer is no longer a defense attorney, but a defense attorney. Then there's no end to it, Mrs. Malovic, why you're doing it, I really don't know. I repeat again, this is a Croatian new speech. It is essentially a Serbian language which, of course, certain Croatian linguists and intellectuals, and politicians, deliberately corrupt to say, is now our Croatian language which is different from the Serbian language. I understand Croatian linguists, but I don't understand the Serbian ministers who follow that logic. I would very much like to see that, say in the Croatian Parliament, it is possible for the minister to come and say – honourable Members of the people. A dead cold culture minister comes to us and says – MPs. I understand him, but I don't understand the courage to say something like that after everything that happened in the '90s, after everything that happened in World War II, etc. Some culture of political communication must exist. Let's say it's also a banal mistake in these bill proposals, what all mistakes have are essential and legal. I say, due to lack of time, I'll have a hard time dealing with all the issues that are contained in the combined agenda points. I'll look back on a few key issues. In the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, Mrs Malovic, you have a Article 2 that says – the purpose of the execution of sanctions is to enforce judicial and enforcement decisions in order to protect society from criminal and other criminal acts. By defining the purpose of the execution of sanctions, you have completely dropped one important dimension of criminal sanctions. This is being studied, if I am not mistaken, at the second year of law school in criminal law called – special crime prevention. It is not the essence of the execution of criminal sanctions just so that others do not commit crimes, but that the perpetrator of the crime is first of all overestimated, resociated, and that he no longer commits crimes. You say, protecting society from criminal acts and other criminal acts. You are releasing an important dimension called – special crime prevention. Before Article 2, you have a Article 1, in which you say that the word "inductive" is deleted and is replaced instead by the word "criminal". In fact, you mean institutions that are called coloquial prisons, so criminal jurisprudences, seductions, etc. The question arises, which criminal sanctions are carried out under the Criminal Penalty Act if we no longer use the term – household sanctions, but criminal sanctions. When you read the Code of Criminal Penalty, 99% of the provisions apply to prisons. Prisons, Mrs. Malovic, do not execute fines, and it is also a criminal sanction. Neither is court notice, and it's also criminal sanctions. You're replacing the word, the word of the law, the word of the law, with the criminal. Criminals are a much wider concept than the Bureau. This word – the Bureau should have remained, because you regulate matter by law on the execution of criminal sanctions – the execution of the sentence of imprisonment. However, there are several members who have a common subtitle – the execution of fines in the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. In essence, this law does not regulate the procedure for the execution of fines because it is not possible. How is a fine executed? So that whoever is sentenced to fines goes to the bank and pays the appropriate cash amount to an appropriate account that flows into the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not regulated by any law. It's a simple physical operation. What is regulated by this law? When a fine is replaced by a prison sentence, in which case the fine is no longer fined but a prison sentence. It's more of an argument that this term - the Bureau should have stayed, because this law does not enforce all criminal sanctions, but punishes the deprivement of freedom. You have made a change in article 27. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions and provided, among other things, that a person who has seven years of working experience in the affairs of the execution of sanctions in the judiciary, lawyers, military or police may be assigned to the director of the office after obtaining a higher education in second-degree studies, i.e. in basic studies of four years. You had to make this change because of that unfortunate Law of Higher Education and the adoption of the so-called. So, I don't mean personally, but the governments that did it and the congregations who voted for it, you put one mess into higher education, so you don't know who graduated anymore, who's a master, who's not, etc. You have two problems here. First of all, being head of the criminal sanctions department is an extremely delicate job. This job involves not only close expertise in the field of law, but also a whole series of other knowledge that the Head of the Institute must possess if it is to achieve the full purpose of carrying out criminal sanctions, and this is not only a general prevention of the criminality that you are talking about, but also a special prevention of criminality. In the view of the SRS, the Head of the Institute must exclusively be a person who has completed second-degree studies, not basic studies, second-degree studies, and thus you get a qualified expert who will possess knowledge not only from the field of law, but from other social sciences, from sociology, psychology, and to some extent and medicine, and it cannot be a person who completed the basic studies. Then you say, basic studies, but that lasts four years. That's how you discriminate against people who have completed basic studies that last three years. What is this citizen of the Republic of Serbia now guilty, legally finished his previous schools, enrolled in basic studies that last three years and has a degree as well as one who has basic studies of four years, he is qualified to do a certain job? What did you say exactly four years ago? The Higher Education Act has left the possibility that basic studies will last for three or four years. It is the right of a citizen to choose whether to study for three or four years, and you say – it is your right to study for three or four years, but then, to get a job, you must also complete basic studies that last four years. And you who have completed the studies for three years, who is to blame for you. It's not a way to solve certain problems. Only a person with completed second-degree studies, according to the SRS, can do this job in quality. We're going back to one question that's seemingly termological, but in fact it's essential and it's about the purpose of executing criminal sanctions, primarily prison sentences. Delete the term educational program and then insert a new syntagma program. Mrs. Malovic, a living man is not being treated. There's a man alive who's raising himself. Whoever committed the crime, the state wants to retrain him through a particular educational program, to resolute him, to give him some of the social and moral values he didn't have, so during that educational program, he needs to acquire them, so he doesn't repeat crimes tomorrow. The education is an extremely beautiful Serbian word and the right word to explain the essence of the process that should take place in our prisons, which is that whoever did the crimes acquires some social and moral value and that after getting out of prison these crimes no longer does. You reject the term of education and educational program and resort to one faceless, cold expression of a program of treatment, with a convict who is due tomorrow to become a full citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who is of course fully involved in social life. You avoid the term educational program everywhere and insert the term program. You also enter one term that is essentially not legal, which is treatment. It's a medical term, not a legal term. You're erasing legal terminology from the law and you're putting in some non-legal terms that don't really touch the essence of the criminal sanctions process at all, and that's, I repeat, not only general, but also special crime prevention. Of course, whenever laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions are passed, then the current minister explains that the law will greatly improve the situation in Serbian prisons. That's what the ministers said before you when they adopted, back in 2005, the Code of Criminal Penalty. What's the situation in our prisons? It's hard, it can't be harder. Today, in a Serbian prison, a man who is married, who has underage children, who has caused some serious car accident, will suffer the penalty for deprivement of the people who have killed, raped, raped, stolen, terrorist act, etc., without any selection. Today in Serbian prisons, Mrs. Malovic, only if you have enough money, can you buy a better mobile phone than in Knez Mihailovo, you can buy various types of drugs. It's true, Mrs. Malovic. I wish it wasn't true, but it's true. You can buy a cell phone, you can buy drugs, you can get out of jail if you have enough money to pay for a guard, a supervisor, a manager, etc. If you have enough money, you don't have to come to a roll call. In prisons, Mrs. Malovic, convicts are called to see if they are there, as in the military, and to determine the situation, on the list and on the face, should be the same. But if you have enough money, you don't have to be on that roll call for a certain period of time. Some even say from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. No one's asking where you are. Next, remember when the rebellion broke out in Zabela in 2001. Zabela is thought to be one of the most protected Serbian prisons. In 2001, a colleague of yours, who was the minister of justice, took up rebellion in Zabela during his ministry and burned that famous seventh pavilion. The seventh pavilion, Mrs. Malovic, has been renewed twice. This is not possible, but in the state of Serbia under DOS rule, it is possible. It was renewed once to show where the budget was spent, and the second one was renewed in a pre-election campaign. In our modern history, we have seen a situation when a bridge opens five times or a street is renovated five times, etc., the hospital opens five times. That's how it happened with Zabel. It was opened twice, of course, after the renovation. There's everything and everything in Serbian prisons. It is not the essence, Mrs. Malovic, I understand that you have tried to make the law as good as possible, but it is not only the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, any law in the set of these criminal laws in the very quality of legal norm, but it is the essence of whether there is a will to enforce the norm as it is written in practice or not. Unfortunately, under DOS authority, owned by DS and various coalition partners since 2000, there has been no will to enforce laws in Serbia or when implemented, they are carried out selectively. This is also the case in the area of criminal law. You all know how much dust has risen over the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. It is reportedly determined who committed the crime, the verdict was read, even with that famous lapus. We've reached a verdict, but I'm asking another question -- if we're people, if we're Christians, then every human life has the same value. If, in the words of your predecessors, the state has turned the sky and the country to find the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, why is that not done when it comes to the former federal minister, also the late Pavle Bulatovic? How is it possible that in this country there are lives worth more than others? It is absolutely not in line not only with democratic, not only with legal and political, with elementary Christian and moral values. The state absolutely did nothing to find the murderers of a decent man, an honest man and a man who really worked hard to keep Serbia-Montenegro from falling apart. Now let's say something about this Criminal Code. We, as the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Malovic, have warned you in time that it is not possible for legal persons to be held accountable by some theoretical postulates. In your time, you've passed the Law of Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons. Here, now you bring amendments and additions to Article 12. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, where you are again standardising the possibility of criminal-legal liability of legal persons. We told you and then, now we're going to do it again briefly, that it's completely out of criminal-legal theory. You don't have any criminal law books, now let's not count those Bologna legal experts, but those classic lawyers, classic theorists, where you can find any definition, any notion that a legal person can be held accountable for. It can't be criminally responsible. Basically, he can't, because he doesn't have biological subjectivity. In order for someone to be held accountable, they must have consciousness and will. Consciousness and will are essential elements of accountability, and without accountability there is no criminal responsibility. Now, would you explain to me how it's possible for a company to have consciousness and will, and there's no biological subjectivity? How are you going to send a legal face to that famous Zabel, who's been renovated twice? In Article 7, you foresee something called home prison or house arrest. Anyone sentenced to prison for up to one year, the court may order that the sentence be carried out in such a way that the convicted must not leave the premises in which he resides. Do you know what regimes the home prison institution was in? In totalitarian systems, in certain Latino-American states where military junte established dictatorships, with plenty of aid from the United States. There was a home prison institution in these systems. You are now transferring that institution here to the Republic of Serbia, without any need, and here you want to get rid of the balasty of the dark 90s, in which all the worst happened to the Serbian people and Serbia, and here you resurrect some of the institutions that existed in Salvador, Chile, who knows where. The SRS, among other things, has suggested tightening the fines for a large number of crimes which, in our opinion, are the most difficult. In these crimes, the state must absolutely not show any form of mercy that does these crimes. There's no compromise with crime. We have provided for the tightening of penalties against your proposal for: severe physical injury, exposure to danger, coercion, threat of security, damage to reputation for racial, religious, national or other belongings, rape, promise of powerless face, promise of child, promise of abuse of position, illicit sexual activity, subjugation and the provision of sexual intercourse, intervening in prostitution, demonstration of pornographic material, exploitation of children for pornography, the guidance of a minor to the presence of sexes, the removal of a minor, the procreation, the association to commit criminal acts and several criminal acts in connection with illicit trafficking and the use of intoxicating drugs. As for the Code of Criminal Procedure, of course, more will be spoken of by my distinguished colleague, Mr Petar Jojic, I do not want to take up much of his time on this bill, but I would point out only one detail in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. You see how that language sounds right now. You're changing the code by law. I guess the basic principle is that an act that changes is called the same as an act that makes it seem that way? If you're changing the code, then you're doing it by law, not by law. Let's say it's less important. You are entering into the Serbian judiciary something that could be called settlement justice. The prosecutor and the defendants can settle for crimes for which a sentence of up to 10 years may be imposed. Look, these are, given the threat of punishment, no innocent crimes at all. Then you're predicting an incredible provision. If the prosecutor and the defendant agree, or agree, the public prosecutor shall give up prosecution of criminal offences not covered by the agreement. Do you know what that means? Someone can commit a crime where a sentence of up to 10 years is threatened and agree with the prosecutor, while at the same time committing a crime for which a sentence of up to 40 years of life can be imposed - war crimes, genocide, severe rapes etc. Where does it make sense to forgive the prosecution of persons who have committed such serious crimes? There's absolutely no logic there. Let's make a deal for a crime up to 10 years in prison, and we can arrange to ease your sentence, and for these other crimes, no one's asking you anything. There is absolutely no legal and elemental logic. Why are you doing this? You say - it exists in Anglo-Saxon law. You didn't exactly express yourself. Do you know where that exists? In the countries of the type Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, etc. It is possible there, say, Mrs. Malovic, for the court to sentence a dog of 10 years in prison. You can get 10 life sentences there. For those of us who have studied law on the European continent, it is pointless. For American legal terms, that's logical. But why do such institutions that exist in one environment that has a completely different legal history than ours, you know, we're not as sociological as Americans, culturally. Criminologically, we're not the same as the Americans. It's enough for you to say – it exists somewhere in Anglo-Saxon law. There's no such thing everywhere. It exists only in certain federal units of the United States and there is another site that is fatal to Serbs, exists in The Hague tribunal. The first to agree with The Hague tribunal was Biljana Plasic. Let me remind you. Biljana Plavsic made a deal with the UN Prosecutor's Office, they promised to free her, and in return, what did she say? Biljana Plavsic, Mrs. Malovic, first accused the Republika Srpska Army, those were neither Croats, nor Muslims, nor Americans, but Biljana Plavsic said that the Republika Srpska Army, by order of Slobodan Milosevic, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, committed genocide in Srebrenica. She accused Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic and Momcila Krajisnik of crimes in Srebrenica and of all other crimes that occurred during the civil war in BiH. Biljana Plavsic. The Americans founded her party – the Serbian People's Union, SNS. Ask where Biljana Plassic is now. There she is in Sweden, supporting a prison with junkies and scum. Do you want to introduce such practice into the Serbian judiciary? It's a scandalous practice. When a prosecutor, who allegedly defends the state from crime, deals with someone who has committed a crime, where is justice? Where's the law? Where's the satisfaction for the victims of these crimes? They're gone. But there's something else, there's a store. But when you start trading with human disasters, there's no end to it. You in the Criminal Code foresee the crime of genocide, war crimes, and that's all right, but just to remind you, a few months ago you passed a law on the ban on discrimination, where genocide was declared a violation. Now I ask you - what is genocide in the Serbian legal system? Is that a crime, one of the hardest, or is it a crime? That's when we warned you, don't play with criminal-law terms. Can't be a genocide. It can't be a crime of war. In your opinion, I don't think it would have been personal for you, according to your colleague Svetozar Chiplic, who explained the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. But now you have an incredible situation. The same work is legally defined in two ways. The Law prohibiting discrimination is a violation, which is insane that genocide is a violation, and in the Criminal Code it is one of the most serious crimes. One complete mess, no need at all. You know in theory, you know in practice what a crime is, what a crime is, where it starts, where it stops. In the Law of Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, you say – that is our obligation. In general, all Dosovna governments since 2000, whenever they do something that is contrary to the state interests and interests of the people, they say – you know, it is our international obligation. Now let's go back a little bit, Mrs. Malovic. I've been studying a little history of the creation of a permanent international criminal court. Since 1950, the UN Human Rights Commission has been working to educate a permanent international criminal court, which will try for the most serious violations, i.e. violations of international humanitarian and war law. After World War II, there were two ad hoc courts, the one in Nuremberg and the one in Tokyo. Two processes were held and the war criminals of Germany and Japan were tried. The lawyers, however, came to the conclusion that the objectively this kind of sanctioning violations of international humanitarian law is bad, that this should not be done by the ad hoc tribunal, but by a permanent international criminal court. From 1950 to 1998, one country in the world was holding back the formation of that court- the United States, no one else. The United States did not allow an international criminal court to be formed. At that Roman conference in 1998, the US delegation represented who - Teodor Meron, the future president of The Hague tribunal. He claimed that violations of international humanitarian law would be better sanctioned through an ad hoc tribunal than through a permanent international criminal court. The Americans ratified, however, the 1998 Roman Statute, if I'm not mistaken, that was somewhere at the end of Bill Clinton's term, but they still haven't handed the ratification instruments over to the UN Secretary General and the United States formally-legal Roman Statute is not binding. Let's not lie to ourselves, who makes the most of the violations of international humanitarian law than American troops. Mrs. Malovic, since the end of World War II, that country has not stopped fighting. She participated in all military juntas, wars of local and regional character in Central America, South America, Africa, Asia, Europe, here at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, Americans have the greatest responsibility for all the evils that have happened. What happens after that? With 102 states in the world, the United States has concluded scandalous contracts, under which these countries are obliged not to extradite American soldiers to any international court, whether ad hoc, or permanent, and not only that their domestic authorities cannot judge American soldiers either. A few years ago, U.S. soldiers in Italy were killed by who knows how many people on a single wire. In Macedonia, they stepped on the minister and nothing. Croatia and Montenegro signed the contract with the United States and you say it's our responsibility. So, tell me, Mrs. Malovic, what should happen so that the Serb soldier is in a position to violate international humanitarian law, who are we going to attack, which states are we going to conquer? If anyone should be obliged to respect the principles of the International Criminal Court, then it's the United States. No, it's not an obligation for them. I didn't hear any American officials say -- well, you know, it's our duty to ratify the Roman Statute. We poor, no army, have the Cobras guarding the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, we have a gendarme that deals with fans. We don't have a real army. We will have nowhere to commit violations of international humanitarian law. Those who do these injuries from day to day are not bound by the Roman Law. Let me remind you, the United States is present in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Their troops are on KIM. I guess they should be the first to respect international humanitarian law. It is not the Serb army in Arkansas and Alaska, but in KIM, BiH, they are everywhere. They are both in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Afghanistan, Iraq and who knows where they are not. They should be bound by the Roman Statute. They are the ones who have supported various dictatorial regimes since the end of World War II. They're the ones that make the drug trade possible. They're the ones that make it possible to trade weapons, white slaves, etc. They're the ones who commit various crimes around Afghanistan, Iraq, KIM, etc. today. Or you can hear about the crimes committed by someone else in their name. I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the SRS, stop this story that we have to do something. I understand that the Republic of Serbia has some international obligations. But the international community is a set of more states, there are rights and obligations. If it's our responsibility, then someone's right to the other side. If it's someone's right, or our right, it's someone's duty. It's impossible that we only have obligations to the international community and no rights, and that Americans have all the rights and no obligations. Where's the international legal order? So that I don't take more time away from my esteemed colleagues, I'll give them my word. Of course, I am obliged to say that, for all of these other reasons that I have failed to state, which will be indicated by my colleagues, none of the proposed laws, or laws that you have put on the agenda of this session, can be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24412	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24413	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must express my dissatisfaction with the sentence made by Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, that the court has condemned some alleged murderers, Dr Zoran Djindjic. Mr. Martinovic, if you know any new details and details about the assassination of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, I ask you to give these information to the prosecution, but until you bring these data out, I am absolutely convinced that the court has punished the real killers and that they have been adequately punished by their crime and according to the prescribed sentence in Criminal Law. When we talk about human accident trafficking, when it comes to human accident trafficking, the time comes to stop. Whether it stops when you don't cross the census in Vranjska Banja, or in Kovin, or somewhere else, anyway, but it's important that when you start a trade accident, then it stops. All our victims are equal, both Pavle Bulatovic and Zoran Djindjic, but we were not in power when Pavle Bulatovic was killed. When Pavle Bulatovic was killed, some others were in power, and some of them boldly and responsibly in this assembly indicated the name of his murderer and allowed his killer to move away. Mrs. Malovic, I congratulate you on everything you've done on judicial reform. I think you're doing a great job, and this is not some advice or condition of Europe, this is the desire of the democratic public to pass such laws. I support you and welcome you in your efforts to endure this work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24414	Replica, Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24415	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, have the right to choose some of their idols in their lives, but as much as Mr Milivojevic sincerely regrets for Mr Zoran Djindjic, he best tells the fact that he speaks of the death of Zoran Djindjic in the context of the elections in Vrnjak Banja. What does that have to do with each other? I don't really know. I did not claim that the verdict against the murderers or the people who were accused of the murder was wrong, I just said that you caught the killers, if indeed the killers, because you will indeed agree with me, Mr Milivojevic, a number of contradictions are opening up around the process, but that we are not going into it now, but that the state absolutely did nothing to find the murderers of Pavol Bulatovic, absolutely nothing, although it was a man who was truly honorably performing his function and, unlike your current and then friends from the Montenegrin type Milo Djukanovic, was truly committed to preserving the SRJ. By the way, this verdict against the murderer, Zoran Djindjic, is still not legal and on the formal side, it is still unclear who actually committed the murder.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24416	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24417	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, understand this very well-intentioned by the DSS Group, but believe that everyone normal in this room, and anyone who watches a delayed transmission deep into the night, after midnight, will wonder why and why we are doing this in this way - Friday night, without television transmission and all of this by an emergency procedure. I'm sure you're aware of the importance of the laws on the agenda today. Seven laws have been put on a pile in a single debate and, of course, fellow MPs from opposition parties must indicate that we do not have enough time to really commit ourselves seriously to each of the laws individually. You've been talking about all seven laws for about 35 minutes, and a few of us should pack it up in 25 minutes. I want you to understand this really, really honest. We're trying to fix what you wrote wrongly and deliver to the National Assembly. The draft law on criminal proceedings arrived at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on July 3rd, and a proposal for the Criminal Code arrived on July 9th. So a few days ago, but a similar situation occurred when we discussed both the seats and the areas of the courts and the prosecution. That's when you brought out one flash and in the day you abolished more than 100 courts in the Republic of Serbia. The amendments to this law have been submitted by NGOs, the Citizens' Protector, the MPs, and that's our job. Of course we had to deal with him. We have tried to correct the wrong drafts of the law through amendments, and I hope that in the debate in particular, you will have the understanding that our goodwill is directed at making bad bill proposals better. What's worrying, which is strange, is that you haven't consulted the Serbian Attorney's Chamber when proposing these laws, people whose job it is. I believe you received a letter from the Serbian Bar Association, saying they found out about these bills from public information funds. It is totally inadmissible for the professional public, and therefore the legal association, to this moment have no knowledge of the draft or the work text. I'm reading this from their memo. I really don't know if that's true. This was sent to the DSS on July 8th. What's a fact and I'm sure of it is that the attorney's office is no longer in the commission that prepared these laws for its representatives. It will certainly be the reason, according to our lawyers, to address the Council of Bar Associations of Europe and the International Union of Lawyers again. Also, in the last paragraph of this memo, they consider it only celibate to withdraw from such proceedings and return to the Ministry of Justice all these laws. I want to remind you of another fact. The chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Committee is the DS MP, a lawyer. The chairman of the Justice Committee is a DS MP, also a lawyer. Secretary of State, Mr. Homen, when DS, is also a lawyer. If lawyers can't talk to each other. At least they could have done that part of the job with their colleagues. What's also a fact and you don't need to forget either you or the MPs who are on temporary work in the National Assembly, and otherwise they're in law enforcement, that when all this goes through and when this government breaks, they're going to have to come back and do business with these colleagues together and look them in the eye. The only argument I can accept is that it will be easier for them to be 600 judges in the Republic of Serbia at that time, thanks to you and to the crazy proposals we have criticised many times. When we talk about proposed laws, the purpose of enforcement of criminal sanctions is to apply criminal law at all. I guess we'll agree on that. In Article 2. The proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions wants to amend the provision on the purpose of criminal sanctions. Of course, we will agree that man is the most important of all social values and deserves special reference in the law. No other value protected by criminal law has the privilege of being specifically mentioned by the law. By calling for the protection of social values, criminal law has often been misused, contrary to its sole purpose – the protection of man. Only the criminal right that puts a man at the heart of protection and values that are characteristic of man, life, body, honor, half-freedom, property, and only then of generality, can be a legitimate basis for applying criminal sanctions as a means of criminal justice. Therefore, the provision on the purpose of enforcement of criminal sanctions must not be different from the provision of Article 3. A criminal code, which puts human protection first, not the protection of society. I remind you that you have not changed the provisions of Article 3. A criminal code in this new proposal. What I cannot look back on in this discussion is a member of the 15th proposed law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, where a provision on the length of the term of office of the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration is deleted. The current solution envisions his term of office for five years. Is someone preparing in the Republic of Serbia to do this job forever? No, I don't. Great. I expect another answer from you, you can nod my head, you can say that later, which other function in the executive branch of government has no limit to the mandate, as foreseen by the proposed law? If you know that, tell us. We'd really like to hear that. Also, this bill, which abolishes the restriction that the existing law provides for the type of work where candidates for director of the Board must have a certain working experience, can be put in place that, without offense to those professors, gynecologists, actors, professors, veterinarians are the directors of the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions. We think that the existing solution is much better and, of course, when we discuss it in particular, we will point to it. I'm sure you'll accept that. We are indeed in favour of solutions that would rightly paint a picture of the punishment, as envisioned by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, which must not fail to take into account both positive and negative general prevention as the purpose of the prison sentence. It's really complicated. Dear counterpart Radovic tried to cover all the proposed laws, also Mr Palalic, but we will have to run for a time limit and for volleyball, which is currently being transferred on the second programme of Mr Tijanic's Public Service, to the law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime. What is my point is that this bill is problematic at the very least, because it does not comply with all the provisions of the Criminal Penal Code. I'm really not sure that you've agreed to this bill with the European prison rules you just mentioned. In the discussion in particular, I will give you specific insight into certain gaps that you have made consciously or unwittingly, but we will have the opportunity to correct that too. There is certainly a great need and a need for this law to be passed, but when convicted of the most serious crimes that receive a 30-40-year sentence come to a special ward in Zabel, is it normal for after two years to question whether they still need to carry out the rest of the sentence in that institution or to return to another institution or God forbid the manager of that institution puts them in some minority department so they can walk and act like they're at large. It's not precisely defined by this bill. Please make it right. I'll remind you that this bill has arrived by emergency procedure. When the law comes by emergency procedure, it implies that its non-compliance can cause adverse consequences for the country's security and for the work of the state authorities. You are predicting this bill to bring in certain sublaws within six months and to adopt an act on internal planning and systematicisation within 30 days. If we assume that someone comes to a special department in Zabela in the meantime, and there is no domestic order in the meantime, or that certain procedures are not known how this should be conducted, I think that at least once you submitted the bill to prepare the other documentation. I hope you'll do it as soon as possible, but we've submitted the amendment to that article, too, so if you adopt it, I think your associates can do the job if they know they're doing it. Once again, I urge you to accept amendments to the DSS parliamentary groups, which are extremely well-intentioned, highly prepared and essentially define certain standards that you have provided for in a more high-quality manner, without our wish and intent to make it appear that we who know the law, criminal law, the law on the execution of criminal sanctions and all other proposals that you have made, are better than you. Let us not be vain here, but rather pass laws that can really be applied, not that Madam President boasts only by the number of laws we have adopted in the National Assembly. When we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, there really is a series of objections and provisions that are not clear enough and that have to be better specified, so I remind you that next week we'll explain it to you, and you'll accept it, I hope. In our view, there is a large and confusing norm about the use of photographic or audio and visual recordings. I think that could have worked out a lot better. The measures of electronic surveillance of the defendant have been prescribed. One of the esteemed colleagues mentioned that if a court does not have technical means, so there are not enough bracelets for people who carry out their sentence in a home prison, does that mean that a convict will have to buy a bracelet at his expense so that he can execute a sentence in his home or be referred to another office? It's just not exactly established. There is also an assumption that delivery was made in a situation where there is no factual delivery. We have an amendment to this problem and we suggest we adopt it too. We find it inadmissible for this set of judicial laws that the subsequent solutions entered were not at the expert debate, that they were hidden from the public, because when you adopt the bill at the government's session on July 9th, in the evenings you deliver it to the National Assembly, the National Assembly does not work on Friday, but we get that bill on Monday, and in a few days we need to discuss it, you will agree, let us not object, no matter what law it is, we are not able to cover the whole spectrum the way we really want it, quality and professionally. As you are already present at the House of National Assembly, I think this is a good opportunity, at least in one or two sentences to address judges and prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia regarding the upcoming election. Believe me, they're the best, but even the worst ones these days are walking around buildings and whispering, living on Bensedins and beta blockers, so you can give them some information to make it easier for them. I believe that other colleagues from the Justice Committee can't live on the phone and invite judges from all over Serbia, what will be, what will be. What is my wish, is that indeed professional, those who are worthy, who have results, are chosen as judges. (President: The time foreseen for your parliamentary group is over. Just one more sentence. (President: Please. I'm afraid we don't get into a situation where we put the dishes in yellow and on the outside and on the inside. If that's the case, poor Justicia and we're all with her.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24418	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24419	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing practically one set of seven judicial laws all day long. Almost all these laws, as my esteemed colleagues have said, are proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. If someone else can't figure it out, Mrs. Malovic, you must probably better understand what Article 164 of our Rules of Procedure means. My colleagues have already spoken here and asked what damage it would have done if this law had not been passed by emergency procedure. Now I'm telling you, by passing this law by emergency procedure and this way, damage has been done to the citizens of Serbia. Some of my colleagues have said that after the Constitution two of your laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, are the fundamental laws of this state, and if you have added these five other legal proposals to them, and all of this in this National Assembly is to be discussed in five hours. On the one hand, we have respected colleagues who belong to the position and who praise this law, and on the other hand my fellow opposition colleagues have all these days made every effort to write some amendments and try to fix this law in order to be in the interest of Serbian citizens. As a number of MPs, I'm not a lawyer, but I've been consulting a lot of legal professionals these days, prosecutors, judges, law doctors. Few of them dare, in such short time as we were given, to handle even one law entirely and to make their proposals. Since it's only then that we here who practically work every day, we're working under some other laws, yesterday we had some other areas, and here we are today in the area of justice. When it comes to, let me just say, this law that I consider to be the most important, Criminal Law, we who are already in this assembly remember when we discussed the law in 2006 and we came to an absurd situation at that time, which is not usually in the orderly states, that at the same time our judges are judging by two laws, because this inapplicable one was also brought into this assembly, so on June 1st, it was decided to postpone the time of its application by 31st of December 2010. Now with this proposal, that law is abolished. When I found out some more facts, and they're here and tonight, they're really fragrant. Today I learned that the Bar Association did not participate in this public debate. Here, in the light of this law, you say that the opinion of court practice and the professional public is respected. Which more professional public might be, if the bar where they are, I feel free to say, many of the most qualified people in the judiciary for various reasons have gone right to lawyers and are members of these legal chambers, if they have a session tomorrow to discuss this bill. Although they have offered us some amendments, we must tell them that for their amendments it is too late because yesterday was the last time to surrender the amendments to this law, will it happen that these legal chambers will go public and ask, as it was for this 2006 law, for its application to be delayed, precisely because there are many shortcomings? The colleagues talked about some shortcomings, and in addition to the practice of various writings, tones, videos, etc., which should certainly go through one of the courts of the public, there are also talk of certain electronic means, which, by order of the court or by order of the court, would be applied to the defendants. Then I remember, a year ago, when we talked about our identification documents, about ID cards and passports, about biometric records, then we rejected that possibility that people would be marked by electronic means, not to say they're chipping, because in Serbia, there's already a chipping of domestic animals, chipping dogs, and as it turns out, this can be viewed in some way as chipping people. I'd think about it when it comes to people who are convicted, those who commit serious crimes, that certain measures are applied to them, but I still wouldn't dare put one such measure into the law without going through a wide public debate. The next one, which is introduced through this law, although the practice already exists in Serbia, is the instrument of a protected witness, i.e. a witness of a co-worker. If, Mrs. Malovic, of these co-workers' witnesses, as they exist today in Serbia, and contrary to any practice in the world, you have drawn some conclusion, so you put it in this law, then it would be supported, but witnesses, or protected witnesses like we have, and when reading this law were not only harmless members of criminal associations, but just the organisers of criminal associations, do the most serious crimes, and those in Serbia today, instead of being as in the West and in other countries with changed identities in a mouse hole, they are now respected businessmen. They're being provided by the M.O.P. today and that special department. I don't want to name one, but you'll all know, it's the most famous protected witness. It's provided by a little less people than the president of the state. Just under that security detail across Serbia, there are new crimes. He participates in privatisations which should not again be a crime but also rackets people across Serbia. Any position I have, although I am not a lawyer, is that if someone has already been given any status, it means any, or even the easiest crime if you would have done so, you should have all these agreements or all those possibilities you've given him, to be abolished, and then to be sentenced by one judicial punishment for all that he's done before. That should also be considered, because the witness associate or protected witnesses, as it was given to us here, I don't think there's anything like that in world practice. Even, here, I won't reveal the sources and say that our witnesses, associates, even with state authorities and officials, were coming into conflict, or even engaged in attacks on officials at their jobs. I'll talk about another law, since I don't have time to talk about these others, but I'll talk about the law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court. If this law is read, it is obvious that the basis for its adoption is largely consulted on the existing co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It's okay that we need such a law, that we have an obligation to pass such a law. However, when it comes to Article 5, it is clear that the government is simply taking over some of the information that it should never actually have. We here in this assembly appoint judges, prosecutors. But the judiciary is the only area where we appoint direct perpetrators for certain duties. We don't do that in any other area. For what? It is precisely because the area is the most important and the area is the foundation in every country. Now that we're saying that we should choose someone to represent the Republic of Serbia in front of the International Criminal Court, it really should be someone from the laundry profession, someone who has proven himself in this state of Serbia, whether it's in the area of the judiciary, the attorney's office, the prosecution. I believe that it must certainly, such a decision or such a appointment, be here at the level of the Assembly, and not that this legislative proposal makes the Government take on one such authority which, in my opinion, does not belong to it. Let's say in Article 6 - official generalization with the International Criminal Court. Certainly, the state authorities officially generalise with the International Criminal Court and that is perfectly fine and that this is happening diplomatically. Then you see in attitude 3 that for reasons of urgency, as well as for other justifiable reasons, this generality can be done through the International Criminal Police Organisation, or Interpol. Be careful, the one who put this in this law is practically humiliating this congregation, also humiliating our state organs. I've got nothing against Interpol, Interpol is supposed to be working with the MUP, and you've seen lately how some of our Interpol warrants have been dealing with proven war crimes and the criminals of a particular state. I believe that this absolutely cannot be and should not be an integral part of this law. Other countries have also written laws on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, just as they had their laws on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but they did it in a more appropriate way and took more care of indictees, their own citizens. These countries have as one of the conditions that someone cannot be delivered to the International Criminal Court stated that if a man is sick, if needed to be treated, he cannot be delivered to the International Court. There are no such provisions in this legislative proposal. It is known that you can also see through the means of information, that almost everyone accused before the International Court of The Hague of our territory, almost everyone is sick. As far as The Hague and the Netherlands are concerned, they don't have health care. Many are at risk of health there, so they use the opportunity when they come here to Serbia to perform all necessary medical examinations or medical interventions. A provision relating to complaints is already being made here on the request for the defendant to be handed over to the International Criminal Court, and it is said that the appeal expressed by the defendant, or his defender, can be declared within three days of receiving the solution and that he does not delay the execution of the solution. I think you should think deeply about such a provision. Also, when this whole legislative proposal, which has long been reviewed, it is seen that it has not been done in the most qualitative way, as it is mentioned here in a higher jurisdiction, and it is clear from Article 22(3) that only the District Court in Belgrade is responsible for deciding to hand over the defendants. When it comes to the second-degree decision-making body, which is given in Article 27, it does not say that there is only one instance that can decide on the complaint. It is said that the complaint referred to in Article 1 decides a larger, directly higher court, made up of more than one judge. What is this directly higher court in Serbia? Today it is the Supreme Court of Serbia, and in some foreseeable time it will be the Supreme Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24420	There's a word Mr. Boris Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I first regret that the minister is not here right now, but I hope that he will still return, here they confirm that he will return. When it comes to this set of laws, I don't want to waste my time saying that there are united points that could never be united, i.e. A united bill that could never be united. I would like to draw your attention that after my predecessor's presentation, it seems clear that all parties, except the SRS, support co-operation with The Hague tribunal. So, there is no need to cooperate with the UN tribunal in The Hague not because someone is sick or not sick, but because we, as a member of the UN organisation, are obliged to respect the UN Charter. The law on co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague is anti-constitutional. If you have ever read the UN Charter of Organization, you could have discovered an epochal truth there, which is that the Security Council, as the body created by the UN tribunal in The Hague, has the authority to create auxiliary organs, and this is the commission, committee or rapporteur for special matters. As you can well guess, the court can't take any of these categories. By the very nature of democracy, the principles of power-sharing, the court cannot be an auxiliary body. If the auxiliary authority is an executive or legislative authority, then there is no democracy, then there is another form of government, for example those forms that Aristotle states in his "Politice" as depraved, autocratical, totalitarian forms. Let's get this straight first. When it comes to the Law of Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, I must tell you that although their statute was ratified in 2001, you are also violating the Constitution by cooperating with this court. For what? On the official website of the court, the institution, in their database under paragraph – you can find the basic documents, be careful now, about the national legislation of Kosovo. So, as the national legislation of Kosovo here, among other things, the Ethics Code of Judges of Kosovo, etc., stands out. By cooperating with this court, you will also accept these documents and these views of this court. So, they treat Kosovo as an independent territory, an independent state. On the same official website of the International Criminal Court, you can also see certain data relating to judicial practice, including the case-law of the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the International Tribunal for Rwanda. What kind of trouble do we have here? One of the basic concepts advocated by the International Criminal Court is so-called. The concept of a joint criminal enterprise, which some of the supporters of the International Criminal Court are trying to lead through Article 25. The Statute of the International Criminal Court concerning individual criminal liability. Why through this member? Because the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, through members of their statutes, had seven positions 1 and 6 of Article 1 concerning individual criminal responsibilities, passed the concept of a joint criminal enterprise. It's one of the far-fetched definitions, and the real definition is the one offered by Professor Chavoski – a joint criminal enterprise, for the simple reason, because the prosecutor, in his opinion, has brought together certain persons who have nothing to do with each other. What is the dangerous concept of a joint criminal enterprise? It is precisely because his third category, according to numerous experts, including you and your favorite West, is interpreted as the introduction of collective criminal responsibility and collective punishment. These views include Professor Allen Dershovic of the University of Harvard, Professor Jenny Martinez of Stanford University and, among other things, the famous legal mag, a supporter of the tribunal in The Hague, William Shabas, an Irish professor who also teaches at American universities. He reports that the third category of joint criminal enterprise is a covert collective criminal liability. As you know, collective criminal responsibility was banned centuries ago. There's an individual criminal responsibility. The UN tribunal in The Hague since 2001 has been applying the concept of a joint criminal enterprise, since one World Bank official, Judge Muhammad Shahabudin has become the chairman of the Appeal Council in proceedings against Serb Duško Tadic. Eight years, therefore, since the founding of the tribunal in The Hague in 1993, they have waited to draw up the first indictment to contain a joint criminal enterprise. Since 2001, according to US experts, by 2004 84% of the charges are based on the concept of a joint criminal enterprise. Eight years didn't apply it at all, and then in three years 84% of the charges rest on a joint criminal enterprise. Does that tell you anything? I will tell you that representatives of the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague, in informal talks, call the concept a silver bullet against Serbs. It's a mental construction of American lawyers, and it involves, of course, a kind of legal assault that cannot be defended, i.e. from which a person cannot defend himself, since the concept of collective criminal responsibility is clear why. From this example, you can see how they treat members of the Serb people, therefore, as beasts, which is simply amazing. So you intend to cooperate with such a court. The SRS, as is known, is opposed to co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague. We have now seen that some former patriots have agreed to co-operate with the tribunal in The Hague. We are against the extradition of our citizens to the International Criminal Court. Now look at what's going on with the most serious crime under international law. As you know, the tribunal's jurisdiction in The Hague is not the most serious crime under international law, a crime against peace, which was in the tribunal's jurisdiction in Nuremberg and Tokyo. Moreover, they are also designed to judge the crime. He is formally in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court as a crime of aggression, and he belongs to a crime against peace. However, cunningly, Western experts did not want to store in the International Criminal Court Statute a definition of the crime of aggression. They say we have yet to see what aggression is. They have nothing to see. It is known from the 1974 UN General Assembly Resolution on the Crime of Aggression. It is precisely defined and has its points of a) to f). It's very clear what aggression is. Why do I mention aggression? Among other things, because aggression is listed in the Nuremberg Charter and Tokyo Charter, but also because our country should be interested in a crime against peace and in determining responsibility for a crime against peace. When the NATO Pact, no matter what happened in 1999, when it committed an aggression against the SRJ, it fulfilled all the points of that definition of aggression established by the UN General Assembly in 1974. This is a classic example of the crime of aggression. A classic example of the crime of aggression is also the breaking of the SFRY. It was just that void that all the other crimes came from. If that crime hadn't happened, no single murder would have happened, no single injury would have occurred in the war in the former Yugoslavia. Of course, the tribunal's creators in The Hague deliberately refused to obtain jurisdiction over the most serious crime under international law, a crime against peace. It's clear why. Because the crackdown of the SFRY caused the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as the Vatican before all, so there would be no confusion. General Pierre Marie Galloa, the creator of the French strategic doctrine of deterrence, a man who after World War II made France a great force, confirms this in his numerous books, including "The Blood of Bosna Oil", in a book dedicated to the Serbian people and the suffering of a people who always said no, etc. He's usually a consultant to all French presidents, except for this last one, who is Baron Rothschild's puppet. Of course, it is the President of France, Sarkozy, who went to a meeting with the president of the Russian Federation, then the president of the Russian Federation, in mocasins. When we talk about terrorism, because you really have laws here on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, where you introduce, among other things, the fight against corruption, including international terrorism, the financing of terrorism. You're mixing some things that you absolutely can't connect. You're not fighting terrorism because in the interest of your mentors from the United States, it's not that you're fighting terrorism. We can prove it very easily. An official commission, organised after terrorist attacks on the United States, so-called The 9-11 commission, in its report, which is publicly available, said two main organisers of the Muhamed Ata terrorist attack and Khalid Sheikh Muhamed had their units on KIM and in BiH that fought against Serbs. Regardless of this fact, there was absolutely no movement in co-operation in the fight against terrorism, or in determining these facts between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. Another example, a man who is still alive, such as Khalid Sheikh Muhammad, who is an alpha and omega of terrorism in the Balkans, who is being protected by the United States, who has introduced the practice of Muslim terrorists for the first time in the world, is Abu Mali or Abu El Mali, for the first time applied to BiH, as a kind of repetition of a ritual act performed by Mehmed the Second Occupier towards the last Serbian despot, and BiH ruler Stefan Tomasevic. He moves freely and does whatever he wants. What's still very interesting about the fight against terrorism, the examples you're trying to put into practice in this law are pointless. These are cosmetic changes, because you don't want to fight terrorism. Here's another piece of evidence. After the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, in 2003, the second management of the Security Information Agency, so-called Intelligence, by order of the United States. You'll guess, the Intelligence Department has every intelligence service, which is why it's called the Intelligence Service, the task of intelligence is to deal with so-called intelligence. by border or cross-border action, simply said to collect certain data of interest to the country's security abroad. Why was she suspended? Among other things, so that the BIA could not verify certain data related to the liquidation of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic abroad and that the possibility of establishing certain facts about the possible organisation of the foreign murder would be systematically cut off. Furthermore, without the Intelligence Authority, BIA cannot fight international terrorism. Why? That's why it's called international terrorism, because it's not tied to a country, because terrorists move very quickly from country to country. The man who organised part of the September 11th attack, Safet Ćatovic, is also alive, did part of the organisation through a mission by BiH to the UN. Safet Ćatovic is one of his aliases. Data on all this and on BIA's Second Administration were presented by Dragan Filipovic, once the third man of the State Security Resor and the head of the State Security Intelligence Board, BIA later, making it clear that the Intelligence Authority was effectively abolished in such a way that employees in that administration were banned from intelligence work and that they did not have the authority of an official. They can't even bring anyone in for an information conversation, they can't do their jobs in fact. I call on you to think about these things, to stop playing with the interests and security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to no longer bring only cosmetic changes to the MPs, not to invent warm water, but to do what the Constitution and the law oblige you to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24422	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. You've got 17 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24423	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a large number of law enforcement laws ahead of us. This number of laws has never been found in shorter times without public debate and without the participation of those people who could make a major contribution to a criminal act, when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, when it comes to the Criminal Code and these laws relating to the execution of criminal sanctions, organised crime, etc. What I must draw attention to and resent to Mrs. Malovic, couldn't she have estimated that there are seven and a half thousand lawyers in Serbia, that there are about 20 regional chambers, that there is a Republic Bar, that there is a Bar Association of Vojvodina, and that it does not hire experts from law enforcement, and not from cabinets can contribute to the proper Code of Criminal Procedure or Amendments and the addition of the Criminal Code. On July 9th, the lawyer's chamber sent a letter to the National Assembly and the Serbian Attorney General's Board of Attorneys held a session on July 4th, after public information funds provided information that a set of laws in the area of criminal law is expected to enter the assembly procedure as soon as possible. Do you know, if you care about the EU, if you care about serving yourself, Mrs Malovic, in parallel law and copying something that is important and what is valid, and what is productive and what is effective, it is to hire lawyers and lawyers. A lawyer in Serbia is a constitutional category. Seven and a half thousand lawyers you've bypassed, and you know that both in Anglo-Saxon and continental, it's a priority to be in the judicial system to elect judges and prosecutors from law enforcement. I was a federal justice minister in the SRJ, and I formed a commission of ten experts in this country, professors of law school, before whom you have also passed exams, a republican prosecutor, a federal prosecutor, a district attorney, and other experts, professors of fame and reputation, who have made a great contribution to making a Code of Criminal Procedure in 2000, which was adopted in this House in 2001, without any changes. But the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure project was done almost a year, continuously, on which a number of experts, headed by Prof. Djordjevic, Zoran Stojanovic and other experts. But there must be some practice here. Without practice, there's nothing. You're aware that you couldn't bypass that code and couldn't change it all from 2001 to today. What the former government was doing, and now you're just patching up, trying to patch up something you shouldn't have and disrupting the legal norms that apply to the Code of Criminal Procedure. To remind you, there was no need, Madam Minister, this number of interventions, 150 interventions in the current Code of Criminal Procedure. They could only refer, above all, to the alignment with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the alignment with the Criminal Code that was brought into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A large number of norms proposed have just been taken over from the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure. What I especially want to draw you attention to and to assure you that I am right, I have worked with great experts in the area of criminal law and particularly procedural, to protect human freedoms and rights under the new law. Now I'm going to distract you and point out to the professional public, professors, lawyers, judges, prosecutors and others who are in a position to practice law and apply it. The general state and protection of human rights in the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, this is what I want to remind you, may not be the ones who prepared you properly directed, informed and informed you, because you do not have time to write the law. ''The most important feature of the current 2001 Criminal Procedure Code is a significant extension of the protection of human rights compared to the previous 1976 Code of Criminal Procedure. There's been an improvement in the presumption of innocence. '"That's what we introduced her, and you're just copying her. By introducing its positive definition, by which everyone is considered innocent, instead of reminding you, of the negative definition at the time – it is not considered guilty, and you adopted this from the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. In order to make its effects effective, the obligation of state authorities to comply with the assumptions of innocence is also prescribed, as provided for in Article 3. The application of the principle of "no bis in go" has been extended – not twice about the same thing, no retrial. Secondly, the rights of persons deprived of freedom have been extended, it is prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, but unsuccessfully and needlessly. First, there is an extended list of rights in which the face of deprived freedom must be informed. Then, it was introduced as his special right, the right to be conducted immediately to an investigative judge, as well as the right to initiate proceedings before a court, for the purpose of examining the legality of the deprivation of liberty. The most important newspaper, however, which we introduced back then, and which is now left with this proposal that you are proposing now, was a significant reduction in police authority, because we were a long-standing police state, which was carried out in several ways. As First Minister, I asked a group that worked with me to enter the police office for the first time in Serbia's history and to defend citizens in front of the police as it does before the court. That's when I advocated, and the group accepted, and parliament accepted, to lift the police detention of three days. Police work control has been increased in the absence of freedom in several ways. The deadline for the execution of a person deprived of his freedom has been reduced by the police. What was going on in practice? There's a face going on from being deprived of liberty to a judge for three days, and I said, just eight hours. From Saturday to Vranja can be crossed in eight hours and the police can carry him out to the competent judge. Although now the new constitution has said it's 12 hours, I've even moved on, to cut that time short, due to, however, abuse. Excess of this deadline, due to particularly justified circumstances, must be particularly explained and entered into the minutes and a new rule has been introduced that persons deprived of liberty have the right to a medical examination. It wasn't in the earlier laws. I asked for it, and thanks to these people who worked, we evaluated – a person who deprives himself of freedom and brings him before a judge, has the right, if he is used by physical strength, rubber or physical strength, or other tools, to seek medical examination, determine physical injury and bring, establish by means of a doctor's belief, that tomorrow may be a criminal match for who would do so. The law of the police has been limited, and the lead prosecutor's role has been declared. That's when we agreed that the D.A.'s office had certain powers and that he was handling the procedure. The rights of citizens of whom police collect notices have been increased on the so-called. informative conversation, because until then they were brought in as guilty and invited, sometimes with a call and no calls, and since 2001 with a call and a right to counsel, and that the interview in the SUP can last for the longest four hours. There's been a decrease in the ability of the police to gain insight and expertise. The police's right to carry out evidence in an investigation into a pre-crisis procedure has been abolished. The provisions on detention have been improved. Mandatory detention has been lifted. You, Mrs. Malovic, have been a lawyer for a long time, deadlines have been introduced. For the duration of the detention after the indictment, first of all, it was two and four years. But now, as you can see, you suggest that it can last as long as 40 years, as in Broz's time. The detention can take as long as the maximum sentence of the prison can be imposed, as can the UN tribunal. The prevention of violence has been expanded in several ways. Exemptions from the ban on the use of unauthorised evidence have been lifted. It was the greatest evil in the criminal justice process, first of all, in front of the court, false documents, falsified documents, false statements, false statements, were brought, first of all, to the prosecution, and from the prosecution to the court, and then the trial. The rights of defense are extended, the review of the file, above all, from the moment of freedom to the next. The rights of this law are extended, the rights of the damaged. One of the most significant newspapers that contributes to discharging courts is the simplification of criminal proceedings. The state of protection of human rights towards amendments and additions to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, we can only now remember. All later amendments and additions to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, there were six, mostly heading towards reducing the protection of human rights and freedoms. Increased powers of state authorities in criminal proceedings. In doing so, the situation created by introducing a state of emergency was neglected because it was extremely extreme and exceptional. At that time, a number of repressive, anti-constitutional legal provisions were adopted, which were largely abolished after the end of the emergency. "Sabbe" in 2003. It all started with the introduction of a special criminal procedure for organised crime. Amendments and additions to the 2002 Code of Criminal Procedure, which envisioned significant restrictions on human freedoms and rights. The reason for the conduct of such a special procedure was the need to increase efficiency in detecting, proving the most serious crime, organised crime. This was thought otherwise, apart from an increased restriction in the protection of human rights and freedoms, could not be achieved. We shall specify the most important of these restrictions, which are also a derogation from the general and the usual criminal proceedings and which are anti-constitutional. Data on the pre-crisis and investigation process are official secrets. Why is that? So Serbia is 200 years old and modern in its legislation and judiciary, so it has so far represented nothing that has been found before the investigative judge as an official secret. The statements and notifications collected by the public prosecutor in a pre-crisis procedure may be used as evidence in criminal proceedings, but the court decision must not be based on this. Why is it predicted, this isn't an accident, this is one piece, this is a hidden way to draw tomorrow and the larger evidence from those files, to read them, but not to say it in the record on the main search. The possibility of performing simulated legal transactions is foreseen. So what you're doing here is you're taking out the legal work, being a secret investigator, making deals and committing crimes and not responding. What state does he have it in, Madam Minister? Please, it's nowhere to be found. Don't, in law you suggest that he can first of all just not encourage someone to commit a crime, but you don't say if he commits a crime he has to answer as if he's committed it himself. Furthermore, the issue of temporary confiscation, the right to propose new evidence, the right to review the file and not to list any further, because I would have one more two hours to talk about these problems that are related to this. When it comes to this law on organised crime and the execution of criminal sanctions for the perpetrators of organised crime, Mrs. Malovic, I am free to tell you, I don't know who it has occurred to me to prescribe this. Prisoners can now be sent to the Zoo by Mr. Vuk Bojovic under the new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, as they appear to be the safest place there. That measure can be the most successful and implemented right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24424	Since we have exhausted the list of parliamentary groups, there are no more entries for the word, I would like to give the word to Mrs. Justice Minister Snowžani Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24425	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank you for a constructive debate on these laws on the agenda of Parliament today in principle. I would like to express my gratitude to all those MPs who have made certain views, opinions, criticisms, objections to these texts of the law. I also want to thank those who have submitted amendments to all the texts of the law and I want to say that the Ministry of Justice will carefully consider today's discussion, and the amendments that have been submitted and everything that goes in the direction of the constructive spirit of the law will be included. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Justice drew two goals last year when the government of the Republic of Serbia was founded: the first goal is to reform the judiciary, and the second is to fight organised crime and corruption. The reform of the judiciary began, most of all with your help, by passing a package of judicial laws in December of last year. You've had a chance to see that the High Council of the Judiciary, the State's Major Prosecutors, has been formed, who have been elected by this distinguished home. There are procedures going on right now. Documents required. A general competition was called the other day for the election of judges and prosecutors. I've been asked from this place to speak to both judges and prosecutors. I don't think I should do that, since I'm one of the members of the High Council of the Judiciary. The only thing I want to say to this occasion is that I will stand up, try, and I am telling you here in front of the citizens of Serbia, that professional and worthy judges have been found in Serbia's justice system since 1 January 2010. Only with professional and worthy judges can we fight organised crime and corruption, we can shorten the length of the proceedings, which is now not our honor. The fight against organised crime and corruption was also something the Ministry of Justice paid attention to in the previous period, and here we all adopted together one set of laws in October last year. These laws are exactly what they're supposed to serve. I cannot agree with the remarks made that the Ministry of Justice has easily approached the proposal of these laws. Several times in public, and even before this home, I presented information that the ministry of justice has done a comprehensive analysis of criminal proceedings in Serbia. We did a criminal policy analysis, and we gave it to the public, that criminal policy was, unfortunately, at the limit of the legal minimum, and very often it was below the legal minimum. For Serbian citizens, I would like to clarify that the judge can impose a sentence below the legal minimum if there are particularly extenuating circumstances, which means that almost in any other case there was a particularly extenuating circumstance. As a curiosity, I will state the verdict brought against Serbia's Supreme Court judge, who has been reduced because he has not been convicted before. We've done an analysis of the limitations of the prosecution, so we've determined that in five and a half years there are 4,300 cases out of date. On this occasion, I would like to express that one part of the responsibility was borne by the executive authority. In 2006, I said that again, a criminal code was passed that reduced 20% to 30% of the prison's threatened sentences. So, the responsibility for the limitations of criminal prosecution, in addition to the riots of the judiciary, was borne by the executive authority that proposed laws without sufficiently precise analysis. Also, an analysis of the limitation of sentence imposed in prison has been carried out, and it has been found that in two and a half years 517 prison sentences have become obsolete. We've also done a number of other analyses that have just directed us in which direction we should continue to work. Also, I can't agree with the criticism that there was no public debate. There was a public debate. The law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court is in parliament for a year. The law relating to the law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Law on the Special Regulation has been in parliament for two or three months. The law's been done for a long time. He began by the previous minister. It's organized a series of round tables. It was worked in co-operation with the OSCE Mission in Serbia. It was worked in co-operation with representatives of the Council of Europe and the Committee for Tortrum. Since we are a member of the Council of Europe, then we are subject to control by that international body. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, the task force was formed a year ago. Our distinguished judges and prosecutors took part in it. On the Justice Ministry website, which is a verifiable fact, it's been several months. As for the Code of Criminal Procedure, Amendments and Supplements, right here in parliament in December we discussed the principle of this law. You know he couldn't be discussed in particular because it was necessary to pass the budget law and he was withdrawn from the agenda. And he was on the Justice Department website. A number of round tables have been organised on criminal proceedings that should meet Serbia's needs, the state of crime. It's all something the Justice Department used to make this bill. I would also like to add that, in terms of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, before it was approached, expertism by the Council of Europe was arranged, and that was used when the bill was drawn up. Here's the fact that we've now lifted the length of detention after the charges have been filed. I just can't agree with that, because that's not true. It was done at the end of 2005. In this text of the law there is no such thing. Also, I can't agree with the opinion that he's a member of 325. The criminal code, which refers to the criminal offense of calling for resistance, is anti-constitutional. I've been asked a question – what conventions have there been coordination, if we're talking about crimes related to the area of construction? I said there were several reasons why certain crimes occurred. One reason is to comply with conventions, and the other is to prescribe incrimination for socially dangerous phenomena. The same applies to the crime of insurance fraud. Prolonged crime; so far it has occurred to us that in court practice there was such a qualified crime in an extended form for which the highest penalty was then imposed. We felt that this was wrong and that this should be sharpened and that punishment could be imposed whose height could not be double the maximum threatened penalty. Notices have been made to the law, as we call it, on a special regime of service for persons convicted of organised crime. There are technical conditions for this, and it is incorrect that this prison in prison, as it is said here, is located next to an open area of Zabela prison in Pogorevec. That's just not true. It is located next to the most closed part of Zabel, so-called "The seventh pavilion." Comments have also been made that there is no longer the possibility of an end to the verdict more than one time, that it must be ruled in a second-degree trial. I'll tell you that in the Belgrade District Court, there are 92 procedures that have been conducted for over 10 years. It is said here that such justice and such judgment cannot satisfy either the damaged nor the principle of justice and legality. Objections have been made to the definition of enforcement in the Code of Criminal Penalty. The Code of Criminal Penal Code refers to the regime within the Office and the conduct of the Office, but does not apply only to criminal sanctions concerning prison, but also to other criminal sanctions. As far as the settlement is concerned, it's an institute that came from Angolan law. However, as I said in my opening part, it is not an institute that knows only Angolan law at this point. I was asked what country is it in? I'll say it's in Germany. As for the warden of the prison, I was asked whether it means they can be prison managers forever? I can't. They are in the civil servants' regime and are subject to all those rules that apply to civil servants. The justice ministry has prepared all necessary sublaws to be adopted after the adoption of this law. As I said, all amendments that have been submitted, I thank all the MPs, the Ministry of Justice will also consider everything that is in the spirit of the law and in the direction we have outlined will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-17-0.u24426	I thank Mrs. Minister. Allow me to conclude a joint principled review on the draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, the Proposal for a Law on Penalty of Criminal Penalty, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Money and Financing of Terrorism. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation. The draft law on the foundation of the education system and the draft law on textbooks and other teaching means will be held tomorrow in a united debate, and on Sunday, we will see how we will work tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. To determine the correct number of Members, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present, so we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from being attended by Borislav Pelevic, Riza Halimi, Bajram Omeragic and Esad Djudjevic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Prof. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary, Dr. Tinde Kovac-Cerović, State Secretary, Vesna Fila, Assistant Minister for Development of Education and International Education Cooperation, Mr. Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister for Inspective and Supervisory Affairs, Miroslav Radikić, Smilja Krnet and Natasa Mujagić, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Education. We are moving to a joint review of the 10th and 11th points of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION AND VESSITATION SYSTEMS AND A PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAMMES AND OTHER CONSTITUTIONS I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated in the following way: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of MPs - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to present on these points of the agenda, i.e. by this point: MP Miletic Mihajlović – the SPS-JS MP, Nikola Krpić – the PUPS MP, MP Zoran Shami – the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group, then the MP of Snezana Stojanović-Plasic - MP group G17 plus, MP Jon Magda – MP of the ZES Group, Zlata Djeric – Parliament group of New Serbia, Zarko Korać – MP group LDP, Veroljub Arsic – MP group Advanced Serbia. In accordance with Article 37(3), National Assembly Rules of Procedure Nikola Savic will represent the SRS parliamentary group. Does the proposing official, Dr Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, want a word? Yeah. I'm sorry, just to open up the search and give the word to Mr. Secretary. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system and the draft law on textbooks and other educational means. I give my word to Minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
