ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-02-0.u13574	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 175 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the Parliament units of the electronic system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision before we move to a decision I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, determines the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, with corrections. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'll ask the service to help me. Please, we'll repeat the vote. For 151, against 48, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a proposal for a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, with corrections. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DISCUSSION AND THE NAME OF MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REPRESENTAL COMMISSION MEMBER STATES As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision before we move to a decision I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, resolves and appoints members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission by a majority vote of all MPs. I also remind you that it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare the amendment to the proposal for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. On Chapter II of the proposal for a decision, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 181, against two, it did not vote 24, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission as a whole. For 145, against 48, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission as a whole. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 215 of the 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provision of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 o'clock and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 77. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 51, against 122, 32 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 o'clock and 17 minutes, 10 o'clock and 27 minutes, 10 hours and 29 minutes and 10 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to Article 27's injury. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 121, 48 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 46, 77 and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 20, against 123, there were no 28 votes, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 o'clock and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 49, against 123, five out of 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Shormaz, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 121, 30 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 10 o'clock and 52 minutes and 11 o'clock and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 48, against 124, they did not vote four out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on January 26th 2009, at 11pm and 47 minutes, indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice-president of the National Assembly, violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure for failing to comply with the request of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, regarding a request for a notice from the foreign minister. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 49, against 124, three of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it has not violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 12 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to an injury. 77th and 104th. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 48, against 123, six of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the rules of the Rules of Procedure have not been violated. National MP Nada Kolundzija, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 13 hours and 53 minutes, indicated that National MP Natasa Jovanovic had injured Article 101. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 126, five of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Dragan Šormaz, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 15 hours and five minutes, said MPs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, National Assembly President and Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 124, four of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the rules of the Rules of Procedure have not been violated. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 26 January 2009, at 17 hours and 34 minutes, said MP Dragoljub Micunovic, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 48, against 123, four of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the rules of the Rules of Procedure have not been violated. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 28 January 2009, at 17 hours and 17 minutes, indicated that the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one, against 124, three of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. A year.
