ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34246	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the realisation of this budget depends on this law in any case. I think, first of all, we need to express one principled SNS position that it's unfortunate that we came into this situation, that the economy is in such a bad state that the transfers to the pension fund are so small that we have to transfer this much of the budget to the pension fund so that we can pay off these pensions. Unfortunately, it seems to me that some people abuse it, blame the pensioners for the situation we're in today, and the situation is completely different. From this condition, when it comes to pension funds and pensions, first of all, there has been one poor economic policy that has been led since 2000, few are the pensioners themselves. Pensioners are no doubt not guilty that this year we have a 15% drop in industrial production, pensioners are not to blame for losing over 200,000 new jobs, especially when it comes to entrepreneurship, when it comes to production, when it comes to the processing industry. There's the biggest loss and there's a new value being created, and that's exactly where we have the worst results of this government in the past year. Pensioners are not to blame that since 1997, the number of public administration employees has been increased from some 300,000 to 430,000, and it is necessary and quite enough around 300,000. All of this significantly burdens the budget, all of it significantly burdens public finances. They're not guilty either because with some 680,000 employees in the processing industry today, after ten years, we've only burned to 330,000, and the trend is that this number of employees is falling more and more yearly. Therefore, it is saddening that today we are in a situation that out of the millions and 800,000 employees, only 570,000 work in the works in which some tangible income is generated. It is unfortunate that industrial production today is the same as in 1998. Ten years of transition has ruined the entire economy, made it impossible for us to have more inflows of contributions to the pension fund today and not to be in the kind of problems that we are in today's public finances. So, the fact is that as a consequence of one bad policy today, we have a situation that the Pension Fund is increased from about 45% to 54%, but I think that, at least when it comes to poorer environments, we should be fully aware that the pension fund is going to be significantly affected by the standard of all citizens, and above all in the poorer environments, because today we have come to the situation that we have over 80 municipalities where we have more pensioners than we have the number of employees, that we have twenty municipalities, on some record, which I also came to 26 municipalities where the pension fund is larger than the pension fund. These are, above all, municipalities and environments in central Serbia, within Serbia and partly within Vojvodina. When you look at that data and advance the pension fund, you understand why there is no big concern in Belgrade and Novi Sad over the pensions. When you compare the pension fund and work in Novi Sad, the ratio is 1:3, and when you get down to southern Serbia you will see that the relationship is a little bit more 1:1. You have drastic differences that certain environments depend entirely on the size of the pension fund. Therefore, I think it is necessary to improve economic policy in some future period unless we come into the same situation next year that there is not enough funding for pensions, that pensioners are certainly not to blame. Those who say that possibly a pensioner's victim would come into a better economic situation just to remind me, over 80 billion euros in these ten years, and Serbia has never had more money that has entered Serbia through export, which is through debt, and very little remains business. Very little could have been done through contributions to the pensioners and without one change in economic policy, which is completely concise and dependent on imports, based on someone else's battery, we won't be able to count on better days for all of us, including pensioners, so unfortunately next year we'll be in the same situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34247	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelović and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34248	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we've said so much about this amendment, we can only show regret today for the absence of courage and willingness to do what should definitely be done at this moment if we really want to lead a responsible policy in our society. I'm sorry I wasn't in the O.R. yesterday at the moment of the debate where PUPS representatives tried to protect their integrity by bringing out a whole series of falses, which basically only confirm how right we were when we wrote this amendment. What exactly is this about our amendment? We are trying to do what the government does not have the courage to do, just as it did not have the courage to do a whole series of political decisions, which in the meantime confirmed by denying the government, and giving for the right to us who insisted on it, regardless of whether it is talking about a relationship with The Hague tribunal, the problem of Kosovo, the relationship with countries in the region, the process of Montenegrin independence, the economic reforms that the country must pursue. We have written an amendment in which we are trying to protect pensioners from the kind of pulsism and demagogy, which, as a rule, cost them the most and twice as much, by denying them the right to live normal lives, in which case they place such an account for generations of their children and grandchildren. A year ago, a budget rebalance was made in this parliament, which was the direct result of consenting to the blackmail of a parliamentary group that insisted on a linear increase in pensions by 10%. This broke public finances by 450m euros, and the dinar was defused by 30%, so pension rights advocates increased pensions by 10%, and then the value of those pensions collapsed by 30%. Today, we propose to reduce pensions to each pensioner by one per cent for a year of work that is missing until full-time employment, and we know very well how small pensions are in Serbia. We know that 500,000 pensioners receive a pension of up to 13,000 dinars, that pensions of up to 20,000 dinars receive almost 90% of pensioners, but we also know that these pensioners have the right to retire in 2010, but also in 2011, 2012, 2013, in those years where there will be no such ruling coalitions, but there will be no possibility of meeting and achieving their rights. We need to talk about intergenerational solidarity. How long will the country spends a third of its budget on such unsatisfactory pensions as those in Serbia today? How far will a country that spends 2,000 times more in the pension fund than in scholarships to graduate abroad? How far will the country in which the number of pensioners increase progressively compared to the number of employees? That split is growing, and the problems that follow it are growing. So today we want to ask the government, the question that we are asking at any moment of debate, as we are looking for order in public enterprises, in the privatisation of NIS, we are also looking for order in pension funds. If 19% of pensioners have exercised their right to a full-time job, how can this pension fund function in the future if we do not face such a fact? If pension is an economic category, then let's not retire to charity, but we have to agree with each other, tighten the belt as much as necessary, so we can solve together the problem we face, and this problem is very serious and you know it well, Mrs Dragutinović. You know what's underprivileged, a reform that's about to begin in 2011. We think that in 2011, the government will do what we're looking for now, confront society with the fact that someone has gambled the efforts of generations. Who ran the pension fund in the '90s? Where's the money the pensioners made and invested in the pension fund? How would a pension fund go today if he capitalized and showed up on some stock market? How did we get to the devastating truth that speaks of our society as a society that has to donate a pension fund with 60%, almost 60%, while pensions are devastating and cannot be lived? We're sure we can deal with the pensioners about sharing responsibility, about tightening the belt. There's not enough money for them now, but there's even less respect. We believe that the ultimate disrespect for lying to pensioners is that showing hypocritical concern for them that destroys their future is the most irresponsible form of political behavior. In Serbia, 25% of pensions are paid on the basis of disability pensions, as if we were living in a minefield. It's obvious there's a lot of abuse, and it's at the expense of the pensioner right now. It is clear that in the 1990s, the policy that managed the society created the problem of pensioners by translating people without a job into the status of pensioners. How many pensioners today are able to work, which are because the state was not in a position to allow them to requalified to become social cases waiting today for charity from the state that previously destroyed them? We have no right to lie to each other, we have to tell the truth and share the burden of reforms in the country. We can juggle here with examples we've heard so much in the last few days, but no one can answer the simple question -- what is the fate of a country that is 15 percent of its GDP to donate to a pension fund? We want to agree and seek the support of pensioners for that, for those radical reforms in society that will allow us to work more and benefit them from that work. That's why pensioners need to support us and a large number of them are supporting us, but we have a problem with institutions. Is the pension fund an effective institution today or is it part of a party prey? Why has pension fund management changed? By what criteria? Do we have MPs sitting in a pension fund, but on a second basis? They're in conflict of interest, they're in a classic conflict of interest. How can a ruling coalition MP be a member of the pension fund board at the same time? There is a unionist or a representative of the pensioners, and here is a representative of the ruling coalition's policy. It's a classic conflict of interest. We want to ask the question - what will happen in 2010 to young people, to those who work? When will the state start taking care of them? Is there any possibility that we can make a deal, so let's see how much it really amounts, how much does the country cost this amendment, and how many states does it get? When pensions were increased, someone was increased by 100 dinars and someone by 10,000 dinars. The protagonists had the idea of a linear pension increase by 10%, and at least the ones most at risk, because they already had large pensions. We are interested in a concept that would define a state pension, which is guaranteed for a certain period by a pensioner the minimum means of which can live normally, and the rest of the money that moves from budget to pension fund, we want to shift to those segments of our society that will accelerate development, not growth, but development. When our economy begins to develop, it will be a larger social product, a larger social product will guarantee a more stable pension fund and a more normal future for pensioners. Today we cannot live in Serbia without asking a question – what will happen in two, three or five years? We expect these pensioners to be capable of living and in the time ahead, they have the other right to do so. We're old company, and we know it very well. Old societies are hard to change. That's why we need that deal with the pensioners that will allow them to tell us where they're wrong and us to do the job for ourselves and for them. We live in the ruins of the world that they created. But we have the right to create a new world and I don't think they're our obstacle. Our obstacle is a hypocritical policy that buys votes, a hypocritical policy that courts workers, even when they are wrong, a policy that says – a fiscal cash register, and after the protest the cab driver says – yes, but in March. A policy that doesn't know what it wants. A policy that sets out an account for the citizens, but is not ready to issue an account to parliament for what it has done. That's when they're the bookkeepers. That's what this is about. That's why we're asking you, Mrs. Dragutinovic, to tell the truth here. First, that's not your problem. Where's the Minister of Labour? The Minister of Labour didn't come to discuss the budget. We've been sitting here for days, that's his portfolio. To come here, the Minister of Labour, to tell Parliament what we all know very well, to spend today's future, not to defend the interests of the pensioners who are in conflict of interest, which is PUPS. They don't defend pensioners, they defend their positions. This is not how reform policy can be conducted in the country, and we regret that there was no understanding, but in the explanation that we heard and what it says, we find a certificate that says that we are right when we insist on it. It's just a matter of timing, if we're going to plant it in a year. We want to do it now. We think that's how we're going to open up a perspective for young generations to help pensioners get out of the problems they're in together with us. But nowhere will land come if we behave like this. For this reason, first, a message to the pensioners that we are fighting for their right to do so, but the right that others have challenged, to fight for a state that will enable them to spend what they have created, not what the state has given them as charity, that today the state is trying to buy their votes and political support by humiliating them, both them and their children and their grandchildren. That's why we have no right to remain silent, we want to fight it. I am sure that very soon, here in parliament, we will get confirmation of what we are today insisting on through government initiatives that will be delayed and that is the basic problem and the political difference that exists between us and the work of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34249	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) Mr. Momo Colaković, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34250	I must say, at first, that I am very surprised that my predecessor spoke of the poorest. But, for a few questions, I would like to make a contribution to this debate. We think that the debate in parliament should be justified by separating the principle and individual debate, and we have brought each other together and we always debate in principle. Most MPs or some who do not have a lot of arguments start to shout a little bit more and always talk in principle. We think that this subject should be discussed and the government and the executive authority and we in parliament should talk about pension and disability reforms and not just about them. In that regard, I spoke about what was being prepared last night. I wouldn't want to do it again at this point. Anyway, the way reform is proposed through this amendment, I think it's unacceptable. First, it is unacceptable to suggest reducing pensions for those who are the poorest, those who have the least pensions, they are the most. We accept that we share the fate of all, primarily workers, unemployed, the poorest and above all our children and grandchildren. In this regard, we express our willingness to talk, but let us talk, not use a congregation speaker, so that we may seek dialogue. I expressed my willingness the other night on television with Mr. Marsh to sit down, talk and get along. You're obviously offering it for a pay phone, and you didn't offer us to sit down and get along. When it comes to specifically these attacks, please, I made it clear last night, we entered the ruling coalition with clear accounts. By adopting and laying down the fifth principle of the government's basic priorities, it has been accepted, and as long as this government achieves that principle, we will give support. It is that the greater concern is devoted to the poorest, not only to pensioners, youth care, care for the unemployed, care for workers, etc. Don't honor us that everything is from the 1990s. That and if it was, we weren't involved, don't do it to us. Secondly, since 2000, we've been paying a dozen of those who are now on roads and railways, because the privatisation took away what we created. I'm asking you to understand that, too. Where are the funds? Did it go to the pension insurance funds that was privatized? No, what we created. Next, when it comes to linear increase, we heard here both last year and when budgeting and during rebalancing, and we explained ourselves well. The system must not be torn down by some moves that would lead to those who worked less and who invested less have more pensions than those who worked more and invested more. We also feel that it is necessary to take care of the highest pensions at the very least to stop with their growth. I would also ask, when it comes to assessing those who are here today in parliament, the MPs, that in the same way, by the same principle, we are elected by the same laws. To the extent that anyone has received the trust of citizens and votes, to this extent, is here in parliament, do not question us. We dispute that pensions should be reduced, it is our legal right and we will fight for it, especially those pensioners who have the lowest pensions, who would come under the threat of adopting this amendment that you have filed here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34251	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34252	As a rule, it's very difficult to understand the Pensioners' Party. Mr. Colakovic, no one here is talking about the LDP's pledge to cut pensions, just asking you not to protect the interests of the pensioners anymore. You increased pension expenditure by 450m euros and thus reduced our currency's value by 30%. None of you have asked, nor do we have the right to believe that we are tutors to the people of this country. We have a duty to create a chance that they can do something about their lives, not live life for them. As a rule, you're continuing your demagogy again. What system are you for? For that socialism we lived in. He also led us to privatisation and transition. Do you know of any other model where the state can give up what it doesn't know what to do without it being privatization and transition? Those workers didn't go out on the track for LDP, they ended up on the track because the country failed. If there was a different policy, there wouldn't be your coalition, if it had run a different policy, let's say regional policy. We'd be open to some regional markets so some goods could be sold there. If we were more capable of European integration, we would have reached European funds sooner. If we had the courage to do what other NATO societies were doing, investment would be safer here, through the fact that we're closer to NATO's pact. These are all the elements of one policy that are missing in what you do, this concept of yours, so that it can lead to the results you're talking about. We don't cut pensioners. Those pensions are gone, Mr. Colakovic. We're reducing what's taken on the other side. I ask that order be introduced into the pension fund, as well as into all other segments of life. We asked here to discuss the state audit report, not to have you speak in discussions, to be taken elsewhere. Here you were supposed to support us and our request to stop reporting in public finances. You supported NIS privatisation. Bad privatisation. That's the facts. If we are fighting for the interests of pensioners, then we must affirm the values on which the safe future of pensioners is built in every normal country. For example, a pension fund. How much inflation was in last year – 7-8%. Why aren't targeted inflation policies under way? Why was the IMF negotiated this year and the IMF expelled from Serbia three years ago? Those three years cost money. Where's the money? In political projects, in utopias, in a railway that has made a billion euros a loss, and in the portfolio is your coalition. That's where the money is. In a corridor we're unable to run and create, and every year we appear here with written texts from last year. Order in each segment, including order in relation to the state towards pensioners. Why can't a minimum pension be determined so let the state guarantee that minimum pension, or let it tell people that he's no longer able to do what he's formally advocated. That they are not capable of being granted those rights which have been declared to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34253	It's been three minutes since replica time. Mr. Momo Colakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34254	Mr. Jovanovic, I'm telling you again that on these matters you are not right at all. You can't represent the interests of pensioners or young people, if you tell me, I can tell you that. You have your own policy, we don't argue with you. Don't slow us down, not human, not this policy we're running. We have the right to do that. If you say we run a demagogy, I can tell you that you run a double demagogy. That really doesn't make sense. Based on what you can put what's been going on for the last 20 years on a pensioner's shoulders. Are they now to blame for all the evils? You don't talk about the amendment or the pensions here. You've opened up all these problems. Is that our fault? I'm telling you we didn't. Next, in terms of privatisation, you have to admit that we've been building all the material and other goods in this country. And in the former and the present. For that, none of the pensioners have seen any action. Is that what we're guilty of? Why didn't some of the funds go to the fund, so the fund can invest itself, make it an investment fund, not a consumer. That's where we can get along. Don't give us all the respect. We can't accept that. I repeat, we have entered the ruling coalition of clean bills, pure relations. Fair enough. As long as that happens, we will give proper support to this government. Pensioners cannot accept that someone constantly reminds them that they are guilty, that they participated in the 1990s, that they participated in 2000. We are the youngest political party, unfortunately we are the oldest, since 2005 for the first time in this House. It wasn't our job to pursue a career or to seek privileges. You know that well, you were in that government, when the Alliance of Pensioners and Pensioners asked for a solution to the problem. No one ever heard of it. That's why the 2005 party was formed, to try to solve pension fund problems with others. When it comes to reform, we don't need to argue. We're ready for that. Certain documents have been prepared and will be in government procedures and in our assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34255	Time. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and to finish the round of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34256	Mr. Colakovic, your party is not a revelation. Every society that has gone through the transition has appeared to be demagogues who have addressed those layers of society that are most endangered. Whether it was parties, pensioners' parties, pensioners' parties, it's not that important anymore, but it's all one summer and then it's gone. As a rule, they withdrew from the political scene when it became clear to those addressed that they were once again deceived and abused. In 2000, there was no pension in this country, and then a coalition came to power that inherited a destroyed country, why definitely someone had to be responsible. And in any normal society, it would be. This started the creation of a basis for Serbia's development and transformation into a modern European state. This policy was brutally halted on 12 March 2003, by killing the Prime Minister, since then for the next few years we have been wandering in the belief that existing relations can be maintained in society. Once again we tell you, we don't want to take anything from the pensioners, we just draw attention to the fact that pensioners are given what doesn't really exist by taking it on the other side, not thinking about the consequences of one such relationship. It's nice of you to join your ruling clean bill coalition, but that coalition of yours costs a lot, Mr. Colakovic. Your five votes cost 500m euros. That's the price, the value of your request. It may be acceptable for you and your ruling coalition. We think it's too expensive, it's already cost 30% reduction in dinar value. It was worth it when you entered government 75, today it's 95. Public finances have been breached. That's the facts. Let's make a deal, I agree, where's the space for the deal? You've never held a conversation or a consultation. Last time you changed your budget, budget rebalance was inflatable. All the countries were tightening the belt, you insisted on the inflationary budget. Now we've got it. Come on, we want to make a deal, see how we can help each other. But that pension is not the only obligation of the state to the pensioners. What about the health care system? What's he like? What about all the other segments of life they're entitled to, how good are they? What conditions do the families of these pensioners live on? What conditions do the families of these pensioners live under? Do you know how many pensioners have reported to the LDP, and we say we support the children from our pension. That's not normal. A pension buys a baby chocolate, a grandchild's birthday, takes a walk. Retirement cannot replace salary, 70% of Serbia's salary is one pension. In Russia, in which you swear, it's 25-30 percent maximum. Let's do more work, and we'll have more to give to the pensioners. This is how we'll all stay on the street, just like we did in the '90s, for which someone should definitely take responsibility. I think some have taken over, that the Socialists themselves say – we have sinned, that they are changing, that Nikolic has changed too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34257	It's been three minutes. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Petronievich, first Mr. Colakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just sign in, Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34258	I must admit that Mr. Jovanovic is a good orator and that all this last part of what he was saying has room. Please don't honor us. It's not our fault that health care is like that. It's not our fault the state failed. I want to say one thing in the end, I'm calling for Article 104. Rules of Procedure - dignity. Don't give us anything and we won't give us that charity. What this generation has earned and as much as it has invested in the fund, let it have it. No less or less. Whoever ruined it, answer it. Are we in agreement here? Why would they answer to me here now? In this regard, I would like to ask that we end this part of the replica and end the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're ready to talk, I'm expressing that readiness one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34259	Mr. Jovanovic, there is no basis for replicating now. According to the Rules of Procedure and you, although there was no, in my opinion, damage to the Rules of Procedure. You simply expressed your views, you made yourself clear. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34260	I'm calling with a member of the Rules of Procedure, the one who lets me explain to my fellow MP, he simply didn't understand what I was talking about. None of us have anything against the pensioner's right to use the money they made themselves. Where's that money, Mr. Cholakovic? I'm asking you. Well, there's no money, that's what it's all about. Here's the finance minister, we'd all be happy if we could spend the money we made, but he's gone. Forty per cent of pensions are funds coming from the fund, these funds in the fund are contributions that we pay. There's no money in that fund from the '90s, the '80s, the '70s, yeah, that money's gone. And the rest, the rest of the money goes out of the budget that's recharged with the money that we pay. So, from the generations they've been working in this country, there's a hundred percent pension fund charged. There are no other sources of funds. We're asking what's going to happen in 2011? Our right to ask this question is on the fact that everything we said in 2009 in the debate in 2010 has been confirmed - that it will cost us dearly the political concession that is the rightful part of the ruling coalition. We address you as part of the ruling coalition. Accept an amendment that obliges the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, to start the process of rapid reform of the pension fund and all other segments of public finances. We're not just talking about pensions, we want to take care of everything else, but look where we are. You can't go any further than this without being too expensive. Of course we are talking about the interests of young people, but not about the interests of LDP voters, but about all young people who have the right to different political views in this country, and also of a rejuvenated PUPS, because in your policy, they can only recognize their interest in the distant future, because they cannot benefit from what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34261	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34262	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about the amendment, and I want to speak exclusively about it and express my views on the SPS-JS. I don't want to talk about the past, there's too much talk about the past, like there's just gonna be a future for us. I count that my government is responsible for the present, for today, what moves it makes today to make it better tomorrow, and I would like to join those who claim that the constant return to the past is made by those who are the past itself. I also want to express my position and I am sure that Vladito did this budget, of course in accordance with the economic conditions that exist in this country, that she cares equally about children and young people, and the unemployed, both the employees and the pensioners. That is our position, our country's obligation, the state needs to take care of the categories of those inhabitants. There's no one else. Social policy is in the state, and it's not in the economy, it's not in the companies, and the state has to take care of all these categories, I totally agree, of course economically sustainable, but, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and socially sustainable, and it seems to me that we should go in that direction of searching for that balance. I agree completely, if the idea is to start reforming the pension fund as soon as possible, I support it. But the pension fund reform, as I understand it here, has begun to work and some results are expected. But that's what I want to say next. The amendment that has been filed here, I return to it, reads: "The age pension rate of item 1 of this article is reduced by 1% for each year of retirement internship which is the difference between the 40-year retirement period and the pension period of the particular person achieved". The idea as an idea is very acceptable, but I have to say that it's so formalized at this point, as far as we're concerned, it's not acceptable, for two reasons. The first reason we're against reducing the law of acquired rights. Retirement has been legally acquired by law, the right that arises from insurance. The second reason, which is this criterion, otherwise I totally agree, we have a lot of pensioners who have less than full-time jobs and need to feel it through the level of receipt, but please, the system of determining the height of the right is predicting it. That's another reason. The system that is now in place, which has been in place since 2003, determines the level of pension in view of two criteria. One -- the amount of earnings, or contributions paid by the beneficiary to the pension fund, is reflected through its annual personal coefficient, which is placed in relation to the average earnings in Serbia. The second criterion is exactly the year of the insurance service. Is there any difference? On one particular case, first of all, for the sake of the public, and I believe that we are all entitled here to a political position, to a political opinion, to fight for it, and I hold that the Supreme Judge who decides on it is a citizen, a voter, and let him decide. For example, we will take two users who had the same salary and make it even easier at the level of Serbia's average earnings. Someone who had an average profit equal to the average profit of Serbia and has a coefficient of 1, and if he is 20 years of insurance standing, he has 20 personal points, and whoever is 40 years old has 40 personal points. If we go from the retirement calculation formula, that the number of points is multiplied by the value of the general score, now it's somewhere, I think, 604 comas some dinars, we get to the fact that whoever worked 20 years has a pension of 12,000 and something, and whoever's been doing 40 years has 25 grand. So that criterion is already embedded in a system that determines the height of the right. I'm saying our position, our opinion, I could understand this, I've just repeated it, as a start or a request or a proposal to move faster into reform, not just a pension system, but this country has to be in constant reforms so it can overcome the situation in which it is. I could see that as a part of what needs to be considered in the context of this reform. So part of it, first of all, when you're looking at gaining rights, not heights. The height, in our opinion, is quite fair, how many years you've worked, how much you've been paying, how much you've got. I tried to explain it earlier on the case. But the second question is the acquisition of rights, which are the lower limits, are they acceptable, how much least internship, how many at least years if it's full of internships, etc. I think there's room for something like that when there's a debate about the amendment and the addition of the PIO Act. In this particular case, I don't think it's good for pensions to be reduced by 1% to those users who don't have full training, because they don't already have it, and that's the category of pensioners who have lower pensions because of the way they count, because their years of internship affect their pension levels, and at the same time I think that by freezing pensions at this level this year, the government has simply sent a message to the public that even pensioners share the fate of all when it comes to getting out of the crisis, but that they shouldn't feel guilty about it, and that we shouldn't put extra burden on them by reducing 1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34263	Dear People's MPs, notice of the termination of the MP's mandate. You have received a request from the DS that, following your death, the termination of the term of office of the People's Parliament, Nandor Marcía, the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly on the examination of that request, which has determined that the death of Parliamentarian Nandor Marcía has brought the case under Article 88 paragraph 8. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended on the day of death, before the time of his election, MP Nandor Marcija, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34264	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Dragutinovic, we will easily agree with you Socialists, but it is very difficult to make any connection between the rights that are formally guaranteed from real life. Mr Petronivic, we are very familiar with the formula by which the pension is calculated – personal point, general point, coefficients, there you are absolutely right. The mistake is systemically, this formula can only be applied to those funds that the pensioners have earned. Those funds are gone, so we don't get into the past anymore, but they're gone. I just showed you that 100% pensions in this country are paid off of money that generate generations that are working. Today we have more people retired than those who work. We have therefore proposed a short-term measure to try to balance this year and say, well, in 2009, we supported pensioners, but intergenerational solidarity is necessary, the agreement of people living in this society and that is the obligation of the ruling coalition. We know very well how it counts, we know that the largest pensioner in Serbia has minimum pensions because they did not have full employment rights, they lost jobs, we all know that. But in 2011, Mr. Petronievich, there will be an even smaller number of people who work, and a greater number of those who expect the state to somehow help them survive. So we said -- let's make an effort to try to help the pensioners on one side, not through that charity that's being given. I really think that one percent of everything that leaks on all sides is the minimal problem of this country, but on the other hand we try to create money that would trigger development. Look what cities look like to us. Serbia is a ruined country, industry does not exist, 20% of our exports are industrial goods. How far are we going to go like that? How do we start all this? Only by internal reform and reorganization. Since it's about retirement, we're talking about pensions. Your party colleague, Obradovic, thanked the LDP here on Saturday for mentioning education. He said what a mess his system is, that it could no longer be maintained. European universities are already introducing a new form of funding, tasking students by donateing their studies to the state in order to be more competitive in the knowledge they offer. We about generations of young people offer the most unusable education and this is a common problem. Let us no longer point at this, the fact that LDP has opened a difficult topic, but to see how we are going to offer a quality solution. All those formulas you mentioned, we have nothing against them, but they can't be applied to this reality, because that money we're talking about is gone. You know for a fact that your government is making decisions that bring together the work force. How many people retired without their companies paying their contributions to the Pension Fund, hundreds of thousands. That money never came into the fund, they just couldn't do it, there was no money, there was such a moment. Let's not get into that story anymore. Today, hundreds of thousands of young people, our peers, are forced to work by receiving minimum earnings in order to be a minimum employer's obligation to the state. The state looks at it through its fingers, so today it's possible to pay someone's salary without believing it's settled and a commitment that needs to be settled on a health or retirement basis, right? What will happen to those generations? We're 40 years old, our parents retired at 50. Hundreds of thousands of young people have been wandering this country since midnight, Mr. Petronievich. There's no obstacle anymore. We kept saying what Serbia would look like when everyone who wanted to leave it, 70% of young people don't tie their future to Serbia. That's what we need to think about, and together, we need to find a solution, not accuse the pensioners. We don't, but we're just saying -- we helped in 2009, let's see how we're going to solve a problem that's serious in 2010. In 2011, it won't be, all pensioners will be on Skype, so on the Internet, because it's cheaper, talking to their grandchildren in Europe and the world, that's facts. Let's not run from Serbia anymore, but let's say -- it's hard, but here's the plan, the perspective of a clear vision that binds every side that wants good to its country, and not that we are now digging into trenches, so you are defending pensioners, and we are defending young people. We're thinking about our parents. There's no money that can make up for the fact that we don't live with them anymore, that our children will leave. Parents don't have time for kids, but they always do for grandchildren, so they won't be able to enjoy it. These are our common problems, the money you're talking about, to which this formula is applied, it just doesn't exist. Your government brings together a work internship, covers the budget costs to the funds of the company where people worked, and they couldn't do or didn't do it, they're facts. So we need to talk openly about everything, and you're the government, you need to take responsibility for it, and you need to help the finance ministry that made the 700 billion budget, and on the other hand, it has income with a minus 100. We'll be in charge of covering it up, but let's see what happens next year. That deficit will have to be reduced. If we don't work anymore, it's only going to shrink to the point of rights guaranteed to people. This discussion was preceded by an amendment to the Financial Support Act for the Family. We've already denied the rights that we've previously given to families, mothers and children. So that's where we can change the laws, but we can't do it here because the people whose rights are denied are divided by everyday life and are not organized to effectively oppose it. You don't have an effective Mothers' Association in Serbia or family. When VAT is reduced, then there is no understanding of the family's demand to reduce VAT on baby equipment, but that is why there is an effective Association of Pensioners and even the Pensioners' Party. We think the time has come to articulate a different attitude towards the citizens. First, if you love this country, tell it the truth, and then together we need to get out of the crisis that we've found ourselves in, which is chronic and deep, which is not only the product of your government, which has already become the rule of our lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34265	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34266	I just want to say for a little while, there are things we agree on. We agree on how the state will look tomorrow, how it will work. We disagree and I think it is normal, because we are two different parties, in the next – you think it should be only economically sustainable, and we think it should be both economically sustainable and socially sustainable. These are differences that are normal. We think we don't just need a reduction, we're even against reduction. By law, acquired rights cannot be reduced. Let the state find a way to get rid of it. Also, I repeat, it is exactly the same, we give the exact same support for both children and young people for both education and for Zarko Obradovic and for all others, and there we are not different. We differ in the fact that we think that reform should be much more complex than reducing pensions by 1%, starting with the first system that's full, whether everyone pays, whether we know who pays, whether we know who doesn't pay, how much. And there's room on that side to increase income, and reduce, not to talk about financial discipline, the gray economy, etc. On the other hand, whether we should consider whether we should further encourage the future of voluntary pension funds. Voluntary pension funds have begun to resuscitate, but they still don't have enough support, but it's something that will apply to the next generation. And this second pillar of security, is it time for him to be introduced, does it have the effect of being introduced? Don't let me count on it. We believe that it is complex to look at all of this and offer solutions, I repeat again, economically sustainable, but socially sustainable solutions. We stay that way and that kind of attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34267	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who is entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34268	We cannot agree that we only take care of economic policy without taking care of the social aspect and the commitment of the state to society, only the character of this obligation is diametrically opposite between your policy and ours. In fact, we don't think it's the role of the state to share charity with people that it previously destroyed by its wrong policy. We think that responsible social policy is that policy that train people to live, let's say, that policy that allowed pensioners to be able, in addition to being retired, how much power they have, to do some more work, that policy that would allow people to hire, invest, that policy that formally invites foreigners to invest money in the country, and not respect what its citizens are, that they do. No one will invest more, Mr Petronivic, a dinar or a euro in Serbia just like that. Look at the way people do it without any rights. You say you must respect acquired rights. Okay, we agree with that, and I'm telling you that you have no basis for such a thing, but that you don't respect acquired rights, let's say, according to students, high school students and students in the field of free health insurance. Here, Mrs Dragutinovic, what is written in the financial report of the Republic Health Insurance, how much funding is needed to fund health care for exiled, refugees and these categories I mentioned, students, high school students, pregnant women. We didn't separate the tenth part of it from the budget, and we do it every year, because it's starting with that assumption that it's not going to get everybody sick. We're knowingly breaking it. Here is, in the budget, the same commitment to farmers, i.e. pensioners who receive pension on that basis. State commitments for 2011. He won't be retired this year for them. Why? Why don't they live in a soliter, so it counts - they live in a community, there's a garden, so they'll somehow get there by next year. We tell you – next year you will not be able to fulfill either the obligation to them or the obligation you are now trying to fulfill in a difficult way by other categories of pensioners. That's the problem. We're talking about the gray economy. Who needs to solve this? It's no longer a gray economy, Mr. Petronivic, it's a dominant economy, it's a way of life in this country. Look at the data - 30% of people in Belgrade did not pay property tax. Yesterday, the whole town was blocked because cab drivers wouldn't agree to fiscal bills, fiscal bills. Lawyers work before that. It's a rule of living in this country, cheating on a country that's doing it to you at the same time, so whoever gets better. You need these processes, these are the reforms we're talking about and there's so little of it. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. We say, "This is not how it will arrive." There's no problem with the law guaranteeing the rights that can't be challenged, but what if the laws can't be applied? You challenged the right... Did we change the Construction Act, did people buy properties in this country with that law? Who guaranteed that he would (President: three minutes). If they own the facility, they can use the land. (President: I thank you. ) We changed the law and said – now they're going to have to buy land, they just bought an object We've changed the whole concept. [[President: Replication time used.]] That's a fact. Then we have to bring changes here to keep those laws in line with life.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34269	The Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and the Messenger Moma Colaković, and the People's Messenger, Nada Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34270	I will present the views of the SRS on the amendments submitted to the first member of the proposal for this law, using the time the parliamentary group has in this debate. My discussion will focus not on other parliamentary groups, authorities or opposition, but primarily on the government and government, as the government is proposing this amendment to the law. In 2003, when this "slepetooctobar" revolutionary change in the pension-inhabitation system was made, the first, a major mistake was made, as someone tried to balance income and expenditure, i.e. to reduce the mandatory participation of the state in the resolution of the lack of funds in pension funds. At that time, there was a debate that would be taken into account when synchronising pensions, so that Swiss model 50% would depend on the cost of living, and 50% of the price growth to a little bit, and then some more improvisations were later made, but with a view to reducing the part to be paid out of the budget to pension-inhabited funds. A few years ago, that system was somehow rounded up, but there was this system left, and that's the problem with that system being left. What does the government want with this law? She asks that something that was extremely valid in 2009 be extremely valid in 2010. Twice extraordinary, extremely squared. This “extremely squared” cannot be done by Mrs. Diana, however golden she is, to fix it, she cannot. Why is there a pension insurance system? I think Serbia has now been around 90 years since the start of the system. At first, it was modest, but since 1945, this has been very rigid, as a system of mandatory pension-inhabited insurance. The state has prescribed mandatory pension-involvement insurance, the state has imposed insurance as an obligation both for those employed and for those employers. He didn't ask the employer if he would or won't, he didn't ask if the employee would or won't, but he had to. Whoever made the commitment is guaranteed the entire system. Since the current guarantee, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is a poor guarantee and is unable to secure regular elections, according to the law proposed by the government, and the assembly majority adopted, then reach for funds from the budget and that is a legal obligation. Whether someone likes it or not, that's another question. Whether it's 20, 30, 50 or 60%, it's also a question, but the percentage of how much is allocated from the budget to resuscitate the pension fund, if it's bigger, then means that the government is failing to form an environment for normal economic life. Why is there a pension insurance system? Because whoever invented this system realized that in the 65th year of life, a human being loses his ability to work alone, can't attract and needs someone to take over social care. If someone who takes over social care had not been undefined, the pension-inhabited insurance system for the entire working life was both employed and exploited as an employer preparing to accumulate funds. In Europe, the so-called the social view of the market economy, it's a European definition of social justice, it's not that socialist justice, as some interpreters in the '50s -- the '60s, when in Serbia there was a lot more employees than pensioners, the funds were full of money, so the businesses came back. But as the number of employees was evened out, like those who provide funds and pensioners, who use those funds, so that difference melted, so we came into a situation today that regular fund business is negative. They can't provide funds to meet the law of the prescribed obligation. The reform of the system was necessary. But all our pension system reforms were made by financial experts, that's the early retirement-inhabitation system cancer. They worked out those who designed ways to balance incomes and expenditures, so they did something to increase revenues. How? Less or more rigorous payment systems, or by increasing the contribution rate, and by limiting or suppressing the right on the part of expenditure. You can see that no one is talking about harmonising pensions with the cost of living, because when something is aligned with the cost of living, then proper social policy is being conducted. Because only then is the value of someone's work kept. The value of someone's work is expressed through retirement, when a man no longer works. So that today's debate, and she did a few days ago, and what's being announced by the government and the reform of the pension system, are simple songs, fog-throwing, that's what we said in 2003, though, I was working in that system, and in 1985 I warned when the pension-involvement insurance of farmers was forced into force. I was probably the only one in the service who didn't want to advertise that law, because I thought it was supposed to be voluntary. If you had read the 1994 SRS programme, you would have seen both there and the first and third pillars of pension-inhabited insurance, but you are so serially rejecting everything the SRS suggests. Let me just go back to these financial aspects of this operation that the government has expanded enormously for 2010. Since basically the economy, Mrs Dragutinovic, is to calculate the value to measure the value. Economists are ultimately value meterers. You said last night that there was an object at the Faculty of Economics called economic doctrines, so you didn't opt for a single doctrine, as a faithful follower, in the answers you used a little bit of each doctrine, of course, which suits you. In order to reduce the pressure, you see, Mrs. fragile is worried and the public knows that some times it must and tear down to let go to government sessions when those who seek, etc., rush to calm down. It didn't calm down, Mrs. Dragutinovic. You know, as an economist, if in October 2008, something is defined as value and has its own nominal term, so let's say it's 12,000 dinars. If you consider that during the whole 2009 nothing happened to that individual, he still receives 12,000 dinars. You tell him at the end of 2009, he'll receive 12,000 dinars every month again in 2010. As an economist, you know the value changes. In October 12, 2008, you could buy, say, 100h of a product, in 2009, you could buy 80h, and in 2010, probably 60h, it doesn't matter if this is exactly 80 or 60, but it matters much less. You say pensioners should be satisfied, they're still told, there's a lot of budget cuts out for you. Then we hear and read some amendments to Article 261a, transitional and final provisions, where essential changes to the PIO are proposed, not making sure that there is something called acquired law. Mrs Dragutinovic, it is not only acquired the right solution of pensioners where it is individually determined by his right. His acquired right is also the Law on PIO which guarantees him the harmonisation of pensions. There's no such thing as a category with you. You don't want to talk about it, but you promise something will change over the next year, systematically change. The government has not yet decided, not only this one, but also the previous governments, whether retirement from the mandatory PIO is a social category or a personal right. Let's define that first. Of course, when a pensioner gets a pensioner, he goes to buy something, it's personal consumption. From the point of view of finance, from the point of view of the state's obligation, is that a social category? If it's a social category, then it has to be part of social policy. Basically, the social policy of this country is that no one can be hungry, sick. The fact that he can't be hungry and can't be sick can't depend on his social and material position. You don't care about that. You're interested in presenting everything as an international standard. Yesterday, you were talking about loans from the vault, and you forgot to tell and to justify yourself. The fact that you're arguing with the auditor, that's your problem, but the auditor's report is the point of "i." You had to clear this up to convince Radet Sretenovic, the legal person, the state, etc., not us. If you didn't convince him, why convince us? You didn't answer how you could have more debt to the state to overcome the problems of the current budget deficit. You have made final mechanisms in the budget system law for suspending temporary financing, etc. You can be golden until the day after tomorrow, but it's a cruel reality. You tell the pensioners the 12,000 dinars you received every month since October 2008 you will live solidly in December 2010. I don't want to tell you what inflation is, I don't want to tell you these other things. You know what the problems are and why no course should be raised and if a course is raised that would be a mess in the country. We're aware of these problems, but you don't have a system. You've got a system for some construction firms when they're pulling their ears off to patch up something else and you represent it with an epochal success. You see, the global financial crisis is a serious reason for countries in Western Europe to nationalise private banks, and sanctions, bombing of the Republic of Serbia, was not for you a legitimate reason for the state to keep the economy, but when you came to say -- well, that's not by standards, let's go to privatisation. How many Sartides are we going to have? We'll have Sartide for 23 million. Our banks? Put out our state banks, and for another 10 years, you can't draw a line, get out of the bankruptcy and liquidation of these banks. We don't care what's in Cyprus, what's there, what's happened, where it starts, where that standard ends. He says it's possible. Well, it's possible there, but why isn't it possible for us here? What's on the agenda is that there is no nominal growth in production in this country, as a consequence of not stimulating production in this country, is the result of something that appears in a vicious circle. Yeah, circle is a sign of perfection, but the Incas didn't know about it, so they were a perfect civilization. This vicious circle begins and ends with the state. The state, which directly, indirectly, through public enterprises to a republican importance ordered a job, doesn't pay in a chain and then the whole chain is closed. Nobody pays anyone. Today is a big liquidity problem. Today and what it could produce, what it's worth, it can't charge for what it's done. You said you hated wages. You've frozen your pensions. Where's this going? This leads to a gray economy. What does that mean? That means there'll be payoffs of personal earnings on hand, without the obligation to pay the contributions, then it's not registered. As soon as there is no payment of the contribution, there is a shortage in the pension fund. Some illogicalities occur. Yesterday, we hear that by 6% in 2009, the VAT charge was better than planned, rather than forecasted in terms of the global financial crisis. Compare some of that data. I can continue to use some attitudes from economic doctrines, but what suits me. You know, and rightly there's a great conflict between the theorists whether there should be a death penalty or there shouldn't be a death penalty, so when something cruel is said then Batic should exist, and when another case appears he says - so it's not humane, only God gives life and he should take, the human being has no right to take. That's how Mrs Dragutinović answered last night. She could find an answer for everything, using that doctrine, but tell me what your doctrine is. You are constantly representing this doctrine of yours. No, you don't have that, you don't have a system. You go with individual, superficial solutions, by system to slow down a little fire, or once again stick some stain on a tire because it's already 25 times glued to some stain, but you make sure that tire snaps. As I can see, that date is approaching, because now people realize that this system isn't working, that what started on October 5, 2000, fell like a bubble. You haven't built a system in nine years, and that's the problem. This law will not solve the pensioner's problem. These amendments cannot solve the problem either. You can only buy a few more months of your position to exercise power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34271	It's been used 18 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34272	Dear Vice-Presidents, the presidency, the respected minister and representatives of the ministry, the honourable MPs, I wanted to point out three more things as a contribution to this debate, to better explain ourselves, so that pensioners and all citizens can understand us better. First, we cannot agree to reduce pensions to those who have the lowest pensions and those who live the worst, it is over 900,000 pensioners, regardless of the circumstances and arguments that are highlighted here. Secondly, this is where the question is that there is no money and where is the money. I can say very clearly here that the money, the ones we created, in halls, in hospitals, in homes of health, pharmacies, colleges, universities, etc., and many privatized companies that have been privatized since 2000, and that no dinar of that privatisation has gone to the PIO Fund. That's why we can't accept the arguments that stand out here, that we are the ones who are the factor of destabilising the economic and social development of the state. Third, there's room for filling the hole in the budget on the other side. We've been here three times this year to point out the question of public procurement. No political party and party have accepted the coalition's order. We think there's the biggest savings and the biggest space to find a part of the budget missing in public procurement. In this regard, we also think there is a lot of space in various institutions and institutions in the state that are unnecessary. I don't mean state institutions that we've established as control factors in this country, but has one of the ministries or other institutions reduced some of the costs if these agencies, if the state authorities have taken over certain functions and jobs. It's all the same. We think there's a lot of room in both a lot of cars and a lot of security, and all costs go from budgets to taxes that citizens finance. Finally, to say that we didn't even mention the problem of military pensioners here, we didn't mention the problem of pensioners, but here Mr Krasic said that, that the Law on Agricultural Pensioners and Retired Farmers was brought to this time more recently in a way that was not appropriate and must change. In this regard, I end my debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34273	Does anyone else want a word in search of details regarding the amendment to Article 1? The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34274	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I didn't mean to discuss this amendment, but given the overall discussion that was conducted, I would like to say a few words anyway. It is true that the country is in a difficult economic situation, that this fate should somehow be divided into all citizens. But here, which I think is very ugly, all the energy is directed towards, from individuals, pensioners, blaming them for their country's state of affairs, that they are guilty of inflation, unemployment, stagnation of production growth and so on. I think it would be better if we wanted to discuss it, see how to resolve it in another way, first of all, the solution is, and the only solution is to increase employment, strengthen production, strengthen the economy in the country and so on. The proposed amendment is directly directed towards the most vulnerable categories of pensioners. So the bottom line, whether it's conscious or unconscious, or whether it's seen or not, but one example of someone who wants to show, to take the assumption of a man who's 20 years of employment or 25, so this would take him up to 50 years, up to 45 years, he's still 25, so he needs to practically get a 1% pension on this one. As a rule, it's people, people who don't have a full-time job, and they'd be halved or 30-40% reduced pensions. I can't help it. Throughout history, there have been many similar situations, but I'll remind you, I'm sorry I don't have that list here, I've taken it with me, but it's kind of like trying to get over the back of certain categories of pensioners to solve the whole problem. In Germany, during the economic crisis in the 1930s, an old woman’s picture of 80,000 marks appeared in a newspaper, and below, they refer to citizens – citizens, to determine whether you want this country to cost 80,000 marks or to focus those 80,000 marks on production. I'm not going to comment any further. What kind of message is that? I don't think the promoters had that in mind, but you can't take the impression that when a man hears all this, it doesn't look a bit like it. So I ask you to be correct, to respect them, not pensioners are selfish and not support all other measures. I'm sure we're up for it, and we want the good of this country. We want her to be rich. We want her to have no problem, that all our children have the same rights, that they can go to school, that they don't go abroad. Not to propagate that there's honey and milk, but to look for that honey and milk here, on their breasts, not abroad. In order to get there safely, given the situation, we must go through this crisis, but we can only solve it if we all work together to solve the problems for the benefit of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34275	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34276	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by discussing this amendment, is quite unfair and essentially unfounded that a single parliamentary group, one category of Serbian residents, has been marked. I want to say that the ruling majority is unanimous in that, and that's not the policy that was founded this year. In 2000, one ruling majority found that all pension funds were empty, that tens of pensions were owed to pensioners, that other social categories were also owed social benefits to which they were entitled, and that the ruling majority then decided that, no matter what, they would repay the debt to pensioners and, under two, establish a system in which pensions would be treated as deserved rights, not as social categories. To what extent this society is capable of now in such economic circumstances with inherited problems, with empty funds, with a decline in employment, with a broken economy, etc., transition and everything that's happened, I'm not looking for any culprit, I just want to talk about those who are criticizing from one angle or another today, they need to know that we have what's been inherited for decades and years behind us. The state, ask the question - whether the state is obliged to all citizens and whether the state is obliged to make it more difficult for those categories of population in the transition process to suffer the consequences of this transition, is not a question for us, and it was not necessary for anyone to set the conditions or to blackmail the MP group of ZES and Government, because our understanding of the responsibility of the state is that the state within the limits of opportunity takes care equally of all categories of the population, first of all, bearing in mind that some categories are more difficult to bear the problems facing the state. What I'm saying is that it's a completely wrong approach to antagonise two groups of people, young and retired. Those who earned their pension were singled out for their pension, and for us, pension is not a social category, even if, because of the fact that the funds were emptied and that they weren't filled up enough compared to how long it would take for pension funds to be on their own compared to the budget, so that the budget would intervene less when it comes to pensions, and we really don't treat pensions as a social category, but as the rights that people have earned by working. Therefore, the search for a solution for us primarily meant that the state would take all those measures that would raise the economic capacity of the country, which would create new jobs, which, by speeding up the process of European integration and pre-accession funds, would be able to create conditions, create a new value, so that those who came as young generations would also have the chance to work and have the opportunity to lead the economy of their own life, not depend on parents, but at the same time that category of residents who earned their pensions and who did not social cases, even when the state was acting so as to give just as much as they could, respecting our own limits of need to have economic stability, I simply think that this kind of confrontation is something that would be in the interest of all of us to avoid and to talk about models how to create conditions that the question of the right that pensioners undoubtedly have no question of any good will or particular understanding of the state and responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34277	The word has an MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34278	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to intervene, first of all, for the mistake of interpreting what the LDP was looking for and what it wanted to point to. We also talked in principle about that if 30% of the budget goes into subsidising the pension fund, that means it's the biggest problem in this country right now. If we can all agree that the only salvation in this country is to see it going irrevocably in the direction of collapse, that it increases exports, structural reform and reduce consumption, in every discussion here there was no doubt that it was the basic idea that Serbia should lead. What we have said, not alone, by consulting with the biggest economic experts in this country, we are telling you that this is impossible, such a strategy is impossible unless the problem of subsidising the pension fund first is solved. There's a lot more to it, but this is the main problem because it's the biggest problem. It's not antagonism for one particular population group, it's not like that, but if you look at the budget, it's very clear what the first biggest problem is, the second biggest problem and the third biggest problem. The first is to subsidize the pension fund. The second is the subsidisation of failed public enterprises. The third is public spending, i.e. primarily the consumption that the ruling coalition representatives spoke of, to my great surprise, spending in public procurement, order in public procurement, but you are part of that coalition. It's really not a way for you to address the opposition's MPs, trying to manipulate what we're saying to distract you from what's essential. You have a way of doing this. I'm not talking to one party now, I'm talking to all parties of the ruling coalition. We don't need your confession in order to know that in the category of public procurement there's a huge negligence and disorder. We don't need that. We saw it from your refusal to put on the agenda a report by the State Audit Committee, as a basic or first step in detecting this disorder, so that order could be achieved in the sector. What's unacceptable to us is that you're trying to avoid and distract yourself from the essence of what we're talking about, by coming out after each other and accusing us that we're for the pensioners to disappear from the face of the earth. It may be your political right, I don't know, but you don't have a moral right to it. One question is the responsibility of where this fund's money is, but that fund doesn't work separately from our society. My parents are retired today, but while my grandfather was alive, my grandfather was a pensioner, so he wouldn't take a pension to hurt me, not for a moment, my education, my right to be treated. He wouldn't agree to that at any moment and so each of the tens and hundreds of thousands of pensioners. It's not your fault right now. It's just that it's a condition that's been found today. Mrs. Kolundjia, you're saying that in 2000 a plan was launched, I agree, we were part of that coalition together. The first thing that the coalition has done and thus has shown that what we say is true, it has made it possible for pensioners to receive pensions for the first time in a few years each month. It was the first step, but it meant that at the same time it would enter into the structural changes of that same pension fund, because such a trip was impossible in a period of three, four or five years. We see a much faster reaction today, I try to talk as easily as possible for citizens, but one much faster reaction in monetary policy or fiscal. When you raise your pensions 10% to you in three or six months, you already have a reaction to something like that. The head of our parliamentary group told you directly that this condition, which the ruling coalition accepted directly, directly damaged all Serbian citizens, including grandchildren of these same pensioners, and therefore they do not have better bags for school, better books, better shoes. You want to talk like that? Because he devalued the dinar 30% because of a political demagogue requirement, which is essentially not even realistic, because these pensions themselves are less today than before the request was established. That's what we told you. We don't want the pensioners living up there, but we're telling you that the only way that everyone in this country, including the pensioners, lives better, is to finally create a realistic plan that will include the reconstruction of that fund, but also the launch of production, such that it can export, create conditions for that. That's impossible if 30% of the budget is focused on only one fund. That's what we're telling you. There's no way to do that. Hands are tied. I agree and we all trust in EU pre-accession funds. We all trust that, but when will that money come? He's not coming next year. 100m euros will come in loans. It's nothing compared to this problem we have. Is 2011 going to come? I don't think so. Real money from pre-accession funds that serve exactly this kind of thing won't come in less than three or two years. That's physically impossible. So that argument can't stand in that amount that you'd like to introduce to us. The only way we can trust our strength. If you say - ask society to save, you must show why it should save. Why should it save any citizen who does not sit in this congregation or in the government? He must have motive, and the motive for it can only be if he sees a clear path to how this personal savings will contribute to each of us living better tomorrow. No category can be excluded from what I'm talking about. No matter how much money these same pensioners used for everything you said, that's true, but in the meantime, wars happened, hyperinflation occurred, sanctions took place, the political price for it was paid, and there was a change, but don't you act naive and tell us that in 2001 everything could have been better. The consequences of Slobodan Milosevic's rule will be paid for decades. When you say something like that, say who's to blame and why. Compare the country when Slobodan Milosevic came to her forehead and when he left her forehead and there you will see the result of his rule, and the consequences of that result will also be felt by your grandchildren. What we're telling you is that we are not this subject of principles in any way demagogue. We have told you – there is a obligation of this assembly to say – this system is unsustainable, it may pass by the ruling majority voting for it and we will all act crazy and wait for something to happen next year, but it is as a system unsustainable. So the only way for this country to move forward is to go on uncompromisingly on the path of its European integration and thus adapt itself to the civilized world and, on the other hand, enter and continue harsh reforms since 12 March 2003. The first step was for everyone to receive pensions every month, but that wasn't the last step. It is necessary at this point, perhaps the highest priority of pension fund reform. We could say the privatisation of the public sector, but we're aware it's a very bad time for it, but the state can't wait, it has to do something. Because it's a bad time for this second and that's why it's a priority on pension fund reform. I'm trying to give you political arguments why we said that. It wasn't our ambition to come here and as young people attack pensioners and ask students to leave and attack nursing homes, as you try to present it. That's a lie. We didn't say that, but we're asking every MP in the assembly that when he says he's serious, because this is the biggest problem. If it was someone else, we'd be talking about someone else. With a 30% budget to go, otherwise there's no government, this country can't do anything. A third of all the incomes are written off each first, plus the purchases you've been talking about, plus the government of 27 ministers and thousands of assistants, state secretaries, miracles, drivers, audiences, and all that, and that's all a small percentage. This is 30% of all income in the country, 30%. We ask you once again, do not come here with the intention of convincing us of something that is impossible to convince anyone. If we tell you something, try, try not to manipulate what we've told you by losing the next election, and we and you. Be honest and at least accept the truth of what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34279	11 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly is being followed by a group of high school students, members of the student parliament "First Technical School" from Kragujevac, who are now visiting the House of National Assembly. The gallery includes the following students: Milena Rajković, Nikola Lazarevic, Novak Nikolić, Đorđe Jovanovic, Ivana Velisavljevic, Katarina Radosavljevic, Andrijana Ćirić, Bojan Dimitrov, Vesna Mitrović, Miroslav Andrić, Đorđevljevic, Nikola Đorđević, Nevena Sarac, Irena Stanković, Dijana Sarac, Tamara Martic, Adriana Gajic, Marijana Radosavljevic, Filip Stevanovic, Vladimir Marjanović, Luka Jovanovic, Nemanja Tokić, Radiša Stevanović, Marko Petrović, Petar Gojic, Jovan Goljanin, Dejan Janković, Dusan Miloradović, Dalibor Tvdišić, Aleksandar Ružić, Ana Bulatović, Saša Stjevanovic, Momcilo Petar Gojić, Možan Lažanić and Božjan Žine Šović. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34280	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, I don't feel like it was about what I said, that I accused anyone of what was said here, I really didn't do anything about it. What I'm trying to say is that it's not a problem that we're thinking about a problem that exists. We and those who have submitted this amendment and who agree to it are aware that this problem exists. So the question arises, and what we differ in is a different view of how this problem can be solved, as well as a different view of the cause of this problem, obviously we are different. So there's no dilemma that reforming the pension fund is something that needs to be done, there's no reason to argue. We have a different view that if the budget participates in that percentage of pension payments, then the state has a problem. So that's not a question, either, but another question is being asked. If the situation is what it is, and we can go back as long as it takes to determine all the reasons that the situation is the way it is right now, without wanting to accuse anyone on that path, what we now have is the possibility of choice between one category of people who have their right to be discriminated by saying, no, you can't get a part of what you've accomplished because it's a great burden on the state and it's a great burden for other users, or for other areas that are necessary to calm down with this budget. Or we're going to say, okay, we're going to sort of share the burden of this whole situation, so even those who may have had the right and expect a greater pension, surely a large percentage of the citizens have the right to expect a higher pension, because the contribution they've made through the work internship is such that they should have a higher pension, so we're going to solidly share the burden of this crisis and say, okay, everyone's going to give up a little bit, so we're going to get through this as painlessly as possible. Is the biggest problem with this society is the fact that we have so many pensioners and so few employees? That's right. Is that what the pensioners are for? No, they're not. Is it true that the number of pensioners relative to the number of employees is disproportionate to society that can count on economic progress? It's disproportionate, but it's not the pensioners' responsibility. So what we just want to talk about is what are these instruments, what are the mechanisms that we can change that disproportion. I think that's the responsibility of the state. So the state must create conditions, the government must create an economic environment in which there will be larger investments. We know that the fact that the global economic crisis hit all countries, including Serbia, is something that leaves serious consequences and something that changes the whole projection we could have had before the crisis happened. This is now a government that resuscitates the consequences of the crisis and doesn't have much space to make serious projections of development, given that the global economy is also in crisis. What I think is important, what we agree on, is to see what these are ways to boost the economy, bring foreign investment, open new jobs, and then that this proportion in the budget will be different.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34281	Four minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić. Time is available for a minute and 30 seconds. After him is the Messenger of the people Cedomir Jovanovic, and the messenger of the people Ivan Andric. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34282	Mrs. Comic, simply, if we speak, you let us be specific. This is about money and we're very clear. When you say someone's antagonising society, and we're discussing our amendment, it's understood that we're thinking about LDP. I was, Mrs. Kolundjia, the head of the parliamentary majority who defended the budget and always tried to find some meaning in the opposition's argument. Usually the opposition attacks, and that's the essence of the opposition in Serbia, attacks power, as it says -- it's small pensions, it's little for health care, it's little for schooling, you don't do anything, you drive expensive cars, you steal everywhere. We are not such an opposition. We're telling you something else. A 2008 final account was adopted in Belgrade, with a report on the execution, in June of this year, to the LDP insistence. Belgrade has allocated an additional two billion dinars to help the poorest pensioners, that is, the fact. It is a city government supported by the LDP, among other things, by the company "Belgrade Road", in which the professional management and management concept was affirmed, saved 30% compared to the previous year, with higher performance and results. It's something else. You're talking about acquired rights. I'm sorry, my political career is 15 years long. I am a contemporary of three countries that have failed, one is the Socialist Yugoslavia, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so the state community, so here we are now in Serbia. Everything can fail, and all those fictitious rights are passed through those states and they are undeniable. The system in which these rights are acquired has failed. One hundred percent of pensions are paid out of the money created in our real life. There's no fund and no money left in that fund. We only point to one problem, I think we understand it perfectly with the finance minister, that there is no other part of the government that takes care of that social aspect. (President: Two minutes. 30 seconds to go. We need to take responsibility for the country and tell her the truth. If we love Serbia, we have no right to cheat on it. We can't defend her by raising our pension by 10% and bringing down the dinar by 30%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34283	National MPs, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34284	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34285	There's no breach of Article 104. If it is necessary at this time to point out that we are all witnesses, participants of this session, that one important dialogue is conducted only indirectly for the amendment that is under way. So all the MPs who want to add, to further interpret, will have the right to reply. This is served by the application of Article 27, including all parliamentary groups who believe they can contribute, as has been the case so far. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34286	Dear Chairman, we don't get you wrong, what we just understand is that what you're proposing is something that isn't acceptable, at least for us. So, we believe that as you just called pensioners' rights a fictional right, again I return to 2001, when we decided that all these rights of the state must take over and meet those citizens. That's when we decided, before that, the pensioners were 20 and some pensions late, they got three pension marks. Then the state said no, these are the rights they are entitled to and the state is obliged to fulfill it. Since then, we have been on the same trail of the same policy in which we believe it is not a social category and that the state is mandatory, regardless of the state it is in, to show these people maximum responsibility. What's unacceptable to us is that the whole of our problem is in this. We don't think our whole problem is that there's this disproportion, when it comes to the budget and when it comes to the pension funds. We completely agree with you. We have a serious problem. This problem needs serious access. There are many things that need to be done. I can even accept that some of the things that should have already been done were good moments in our immediate past, when public enterprises could have been seriously restructured. There were good times. It's not done. This is a fact that now is not a good time for this kind of action, but we just want to say that, even if we adopted your amendment, essentially the problem this country has, and I'm still not going back, it's been inherited for years and decades, it wouldn't have been solved. We would just decide to deny one category of the population from other categories something that it has the right to do. The second thing is whether the state is solidarity, or whether we are all ready to take this burden with solidarity. It's a whole other thing, but they have a right to it. It's not any fictitious right. It's a real right that they've accomplished with their work. That's all it's about. We do not dispute that there is a problem, we do not dispute that this problem is large and that it must be resolved systematically in the future. We're totally okay with that. We just think that the way this is problemed and the solution that is offered is not appropriate and that this solution does not really bring about a improvement that we are having a really important debate at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34287	National MP Nikola Krpic was registered in the electronic system. Do you want a word? Yes, you do. Here is the Messenger of the people Cedomir Jovanovic, and the messenger of the people Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34288	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, the debate under the amendment certainly prompted me for the simple reason that it is a very serious problem and if we take demographics to help, and history is the mother of science, I will say something about it. When I started my career in a working relationship, I made contributions to a pension that went back to the older generations that had earned it. Every young generation in our country has to invest in making contributions for the generation that it has found, which are old. Demography today says that Serbia is one of the four countries with the oldest population in the world. After us or with us are Moldova, Ukraine and I don't know the fourth one that is, and Serbia. Surely this problem that has been inherited from previous generations cannot be a magic wand, today in this debate which is high-level, which is objective, to solve pensioners' problems. Certainly when colleagues turn to PUPS, they need to understand that the retirement party formed exactly what it saw in time, while others did not really see the problem at the moment it was created. For the simple reason, I believe in this government. I believe that this government has been solving these problems at this age, and a similar debate was there in the lower assembly, as we call it, about the budget when it was being debated. There was so much doubt that we couldn't make it. Unfortunately, believing in government and minister's moves here, pensioners today receive pensions in due time, every month, on the same date without a single day of delay. Why don't we trust that kind of government policy now, and here's the Minister who said the same thing last year. Therefore, the PUPS is ready for all debates and certainly, using this debate today, we are ready to sit outside this institution, at any time and anywhere, to take a serious look at this problem, to invite both lawyers and economists to help, because today, by discussing this amendment and by adopting a newer social security and pension law, we will certainly use the help of all those who participated here today and have all contributed to this. I believe, once again, I believe in humanity, humanism, but I also believe in government decisions. I'm sure I'll vote for this when it's on the wallpaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34289	Thank you. The time available for the PUPS parliamentary group has been used. Right to replica, clarification, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34290	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundžija, you simply have to understand the fact that you are wrong when you define this amendment as an amendment that practically only sets out an account for reform in Serbia. It's not like that. Before this law, we discussed amendments to the law on financial support for the family. This is Mrs. Dragutinović. We did it just as a state, with the ambition to prevent it. You can't call that abuse, but finding a family in these abnormal times, so the base of three months has been increased to one year. Look, let's say the status of the agricultural insurance company. Their pensions and liabilities are extended for 2011. You've already made a difference between pensioners in the city and those who receive pensions on agricultural grounds. That's not what the LDP did. Speaking of society, then 2009 was the year of Serbia's solidarity with pensioners. Pensions have been raised and now we're not getting into these other aspects as much as she's devalued, pensions have been raised by 10%. What should happen, and when will this happen, to increase by 10% in education system, to modernise our universities, secondary schools, primary schools, to improve youth health care? When it will stand out for social policy reform, if it would cease to be a response to the problem, and much more has created an environment in a society in which it will act preventively, before more serious problems arise. We have hundreds of thousands of young people working on minimum earnings, so employers will be minimally burdened on the basis of a commitment to the state in the name of the income tax. It's not the same thing when you pay 60% of 10,000 dinars and 60% of 50,000 dinars, so that gross amount is lower, but there will be less income tomorrow and pension fund rights. We're telling you that only 19% of pensioners have filled out the basics for retirement on full-time. The coefficients that count – personal point, general point, personal coefficient etc., are defined in another time, before three countries. It is true that in 2000, we made a conscious decision, which is to avoid shock therapy, to recover a weary society, so we started to do so. We've allowed pensioners to receive pensions every first month. We compensated for the backlogs, child support, social aid, all that, but we changed the Labour Act. We didn't run the demagogue that is run by today's government, which signed a collective agreement, and then had no power to implement it. We've changed the Labour Act, started privatisation, started creating a climate where the employer and private and private initiative will not be defined as enmity. That changed everything in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34291	The word has the People's MP Ivan Andric, right to replication. Explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34292	Yes, an explanation. First, who's to blame? That's the question that dominated. Of course we don't think pensioners are guilty. Such a thing to think would be very politically naive. It's the government's fault. Cedomir said earlier that in 2009, knowingly or unconsciously, she was declared a year of solidarity with pensioners, and that was precisely what it meant for the government to use that year to prepare a reform of the pension-inhabited fund. But that didn't happen. When we talk about the quality of our amendment, of course we are not politically naive to think that the adoption of this amendment will solve this problem, of course. But if this amendment hadn't, we'd never have talked about this problem in the congregation, and it was primarily our intention. To remind you, the bill before us is a bill that freezes pensions and thus maintains the status quo over the next year and a few days. It's a proposal from the ruling coalition. Don't replace the thesis now - we understand each other, reforms are needed. No, we understand each other, but we say reforms are necessary, but reforms are gone. There's an announcement, in March, in April, just that now the budget passes, that this topic passes, so already this government policy, which is well-known, is going to make a promise, so either the circumstances change, so there will be some others, or people will forget. It's the only constant in the work of this government. So, we have submitted the amendment, first of all, with the ambition to launch a debate about it. This isn't about any pension cuts or all pensioners bearing one kind of responsibility, and the other is not. But what the facts we just heard about are that there's one big problem, even a large majority of pensioners who didn't fill out a full-time job to retire. We're telling you that there are differences in the reform of this fund. There is also room for this fund to be reformed, to free a small society of certain disciplines, and to meet every normal ethical precondition that no one is damaged. That's what we're telling you. There's a place in that fund for it. Pensioners are not a homogeneous structure that all 70 feet tall, worked 45 years, all paid a lot of insurance and all have the same pensions. That's not true. So there's a lot of room here. We tell you, there are still a lot of pensioners who can and must work, and the government's obligation is to create an ambience so that they can work, not to take up jobs for younger people, but to do some jobs to supplement that hole that's missing from not doing their full-time work, and they're receiving pensions. That's how it has to be done. Our society isn't the only one facing it. If I am not mistaken, there is also a minister who follows the parallel situation, Croatia is having a big debate over pensions for volunteers... (President: three minutes. ) It doesn't matter motive, but it's about the same concept. These people don't have enough work experience, and they're taking pensions. It's a very small number, but it burdens the state, that they have to deal with it. We tell you, there is room for a solution that will satisfy all citizens of Serbia, and will not deny the right of pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34293	The People's Messenger Momo Colaković has the word, and then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34294	The PUPS and our MP group, if we had talked like we're doing now, wouldn't have been too slow. Mr. Andric, what you were talking about and what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, we accept that the debate is open and it is nothing controversial, but we do not accept what you said Saturday, not just you, but many. We're not the past. We don't dispute your policy. Secure a million votes, come to power and choose this kind of policy. We don't argue with you. Don't argue with us. We have a difference, and that's normal, but we can't agree to you saying that 30% is out for the past, and we don't know how much for the future. It's a huge difference, and I think it's even offensive to the population of millions and 600,000 pensioners. You have to accept that. Secondly, let us not argue that the fundamental issue of resolving this problem is economic development and youth energy. Who slows it down? We're not gonna argue with that for a moment. We should be what you said in the end. We need to provide adequate support and help for young people, with experience and some sense, to take responsibility for the state. There's nothing questionable about that, either. Why are you challenging us? We think that without economic development, without returning to the economy, but don't argue with me, because I worked at one of the largest industrial centres in the former Yugoslavia, the current Serbia, where it was employed, of 46,518 residents, 21,812 workers and that I am part of it, that 8,500 pensioners living in that town are part of it. It's not demagogy, as you say. Please don't mark us with those labels. We don't agree to that, I say once again, that you insult us, that we don't agree to be blackmailed, that we don't particularly agree to being in the past. Unfortunately for you, we will be both present and future, be assured of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34295	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34296	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, this is what I want to finish, so to speak, this controversy as far as we're concerned. If the amendment has been submitted to open this topic, then I don't think there's any dispute over whether it's an important topic and that it needs to be dealt with. I don't know if by discussing this amendment and this way, we'll be able to resolve it. I just think that the way to do it is something different, but I really think it's important that we open that topic. All the irregularities that have been inherited, including the fact that 19%, as you claim, of the pensioner's right to retire on the basis of a full-time job, is a fact that I don't see how one move can be resolved. So if we have a problem with a large number of unemployed young people, asking those who are now retired to work, the question of new jobs is again being raised. Only if new jobs are opened can this question be solved the way you suggest. I certainly think that opening new jobs is the key to the solution and this problem, which we're talking about right now. I don't understand that we can do this today. I think the representatives of the government are also aware of this problem, that they have heard carefully all the objections and suggestions and that the time before us is a time in which, by measuring how far we overcome the economic crisis, we are opening the perspective that next year this problem is at least a little smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34297	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who is entitled to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34298	Well, it can't change the concept of one budget by amendment. Last year we gave up on writing the amendments to the budget because we were practically in front of Grandpa's shit, the deadlines were so tight that we missed the budget, the government came out with one proposal, so all we had to say was we said in the debate in principle and we stopped at it. But if last year we increased by 10% linear pensions didn't open up to you the possibility that, past any of the usual rules in the short term in 2010 and protect pensioners from the dangers they are exposed to, along with all other citizens. And this danger is primarily linked to the indifference of our economy, the indifference of our economy is conditioned by the lack of crafts, i.e. the expensive loans that are accompanied by political instability, the narrowed space for development, the difficult economic opportunities in the world, so this year 2010 is not the year in which we can enter into the makeup of optimism that tries to spread around us a government that doesn't believe in it alone. Of course no one can accuse the pensioners of the situation the country is in. It's just not fair. But we also believe that 25% of disability pensions must be asked and that just because there is no money because such miserable pensions are a pension fund, the pensioner's party should be a leader in clearing up such an unsustainable situation because we all know it's about abuses. When we say we have to think about the future, we don't insult you, Mr. Colakovic. You know how, Bozidar Djelic when he promoted VAT taxes, he said - in this country I as finance minister want to tell you that in this country only death, not pensions, will be safe, that is. Taxes. If we're thinking about the future, then I guess we should watch what that future is built on. It can't be built on pensions. Pensions are made by our work, it's an investment, but if you tell us pensions will be guaranteed, anything else that God can, then we can't agree to. Give an alternative, so let's say 500 million euros more in 2009. Let's see if there's a chance that the 500 million will be held back and some new 500 will be invested in education. Where's the possibility? She's gone. We have to save. We suggest saving on this as well as on other segments. We asked for a discussion about the final account, about the state auditor, let's save some money, tighten the belt. Parliament saves, no more diaries, costs are minimal, the budget for this year is lower than for last year, the government reduces its budget, but that's not enough. These are examples that oblige us to face the problem. We're sorry, we expect the pensioners to back us up and I'm sure we'll come across their support, but it's obviously a very difficult process, but we don't have the right to give up on it. The safest pensioners will be the moment they depend on the youngest generations of society. Unfortunately, today young hostages are one system where there is no happiness for pensioners or for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34299	The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, not wanting to dispute the arguments that have been made on both sides, I would just like to refer one question to Mrs. Minister regarding the pensioners, unrelated to the current problem that is being discussed. Although the problem is really big for a group of pensioners that nobody touches and who nobody seriously takes for protection, so let me ask you - what about public debt and the fourth war on farmers, which amounts to a pensioner of around 24,000 dinars, means no interest, which they have been waiting for a few years of silence, and these pensions have been directly paid, means not as a special contribution, but they have paid their pensions in due time. Agricultural pensions are four thousand and a few dinars, less than any social aid, which is a category of population that is so biologically spent that it can hardly be anywhere, and there are no conditions, completes any additional work to help itself. Very often in the media, you can see someone who has died and has not been found in rural households for days. So I'd just like to get an answer to the question -- what about the fourth public debt war for farmers' pensioners?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34301	It's been used for a minute and 30 seconds. The word has the People's MP Ivan Andric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34302	I had to report for these initial insults brought to our account by the gentleman from PUPS, Momo Colakovic, because simply calling us that when we have a million votes, then we can create a new policy. I didn't know PUPS had a million votes, but what's the problem is when you have 150,000 votes, as many PUPS, or something like that, maybe 100,000, and that's how much you ruin the country and the dinar, that's a little bigger problem. With the demand and blackmail that five MPs' votes cost this country 30% devaluation, that's a much bigger problem. We'll have a million votes, don't worry about us, and what we're talking about we'll do, it's the only thing that's not controversial. As to whether pensioners are past, and the young future, I don't know, I love my parents who are pensioners, but I'm also sure of this sentence. We can now, like any demagogue, fight for the votes of a group, but I'm telling you, we don't have the right to do that as MPs. You, regardless of being elected MPs, or representatives of one group, have an obligation to all other groups of our population. When we told you that, as we have now, the obligation of the ruling coalition and you in the ruling coalition, but all of it, to say that this system that has existed so far has fallen apart and that it does not exist, everything else is demagogy, political demagogy, and the struggle for some of the votes that will, in short and medium economic terms, mean in a year, a year and a half, bring even greater problems in this country. I'm sorry that Mrs. Kolundji isn't here with the fact that she can't solve it all with one move. Unfortunately, we agree that it can't be solved by one move, but we don't see any move that solves this. It means neither one or the first. Let me remind you, this topic is open here thanks to us, otherwise you would never talk about it here. We've got the development and social budget, a little bit and for G17, a little bit and for the PUPS, so that those about development, the social ones, we've got the freezing of everything that's possible just to maintain the status quo and not change anything, and to use the media to talk about new jobs. It's demagogy. There are no new jobs without these reforms, that's impossible. In this country there are pension fund users who are younger than me, that's the point, because we're talking about their acquired rights. I'm telling you, those acquired rights don't exist. There's a lot of abuse in that same fund. We wanted to wait for a more serious debate right now about the pension fund to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34303	National MP Zoran Ostojic has the time of the parliamentary group at his disposal. National MP Zoran Ostojić, then MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34304	I'd use this time for some clarifications mostly because of the viewers. The deformation is a political system, or it's a new political system, or an old one, when someone represents the stocks in the Assembly, so it represents pensioners. As far as we can see, PUPS doesn't represent agricultural pensioners, because they don't care about their pensions. According to that system tomorrow, representatives of the teacher's party, representatives of the party of engineers, are to sit in the assembly. The system where there were no political parties but stocks existed, his cousin Mussolini, in Serbia his fan was Dimitri Ljotic. So, Mr. Colakovic, you say - we don't dispute your policy, neither do you. Well, we want yours. You know why? Because it's harmful, not for young people, because we're not a party of young people, we're a liberal party, and we take care of everyone, including pensioners, it's harmful for the people you want or deceive to represent because this kind of system is not going to get a pension. Tomorrow, 2011, there will be half a budget to be added to the fund. Who will work, when the young will leave. What we suggest is seemingly in favour of young people, is essentially in favour of pensioners. That's why the other day I said that we in LDP take more care of pensioners than you do. On the other hand, Mrs. Kolundjia says - rights acquired. Well, yeah, but we said last year -- don't do that with 10%, you'll destroy public finances. Minister Dragutinović spoke, but you said we will. If one year you can raise, then another year be solid, and you can cut back. What's so controversial about that? I challenge your policy to raise one year, and another year you say no, those are acquired rights. Do you know how pensions are paid in Bosnia and Herzegovina? He's got acquired rights. The man's retired, has the right to 600 marks of convertable pensions. Do you know how much he gets last month? As much as it's gathered in the fund. They say to him -- you're entitled to 600 marks, but there's money in the Fund for 350, here's 350. Did we suggest that? No, but that's some reality. Reach for the pigeon. A country that adds a third of the budget to the fund to ensure that the acquired rights are essentially without a future. We got our visas off. We're out of here young. Who, Mr. Cholakovic, is going to work to fill the budget? In 2012, if it continues this way 70% of the budget will go...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34305	National MP, time at the disposal of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34306	I believe and I'm convinced that it's good that we're having a controversy and debate, but let me tell you some information. From 2000 to 2006, more than 200 billion were given by pensioners on behalf of the country's development, based on acquired rights. That's the exact information. By amending the law in 2001 and by amending the law in 2003, that is the price. Now 150 billion is negative and that's the price of retirement. That should be in mind. Please, how many are in the facilities that have been built exclusively by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund? Bath 36, spas, hospital and so on. Not to talk about what I said before: roads, factories and so on. How much is given “Ju es style”? Are we responsible for this? Why didn't the pension fund get at least a partial share of the funds invested there, etc? That's the price the pensioners gave. In this period, there's nothing to be disputed about, and about privatisation, that's what we talked about last night. We don't mind that you're accusing us, Pups, of five MPs, of costing this country 500 million or, I don't know, now you're honoring us for taking it, that's what someone said, five million, just like all the other MPs. Why is our 333,000 votes less than your 200 and I don't know how much, it doesn't matter? Why? Why are you challenging us? Well, we were voted by the target. I'm asking you to keep that in mind, and in that sense I've been saying that there's no point, and in particular about the PUPS status, we had the right to do that. The citizens supported us. We've handed over 18,500 re-registration signatures, and what's the issue now? In that sense, I beg your understanding, Mr. Standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34307	This used the time available to the PUPS parliamentary group. The replicas were reported by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Zoran Ostojić, and we would end up with a circle of replicas based on clarification, interpretation and detailed explanation of mutually opposed views. MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34308	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't cost you, Mr. Colakovic 100 million. You cost – your pension plus a parliamentary allowance, but the policy you conduct has its price, as you talk about the price that follows our policy, as some policy of the 1990s followed the price. The price that follows your policy is the burden you need to take over. What is the problem for you to say – yes, it is, we gave the pensioners 500 million more in 2009? What bothers you when we say that? Because you know where that 500 million came from? It's not from a spa and a spa owned by a PIO fund, it's from a budget, from a loan. Every penny on the pension fund is from the real economy today. That fund of yours isn't capitalized, it's not on the stock market, it's a political institution. The government came, set up its director, set up a board of directors. Is the vice president of a ruling party the chairman of the Pension Fund Management Board? It's not a portfolio manager, it's a statist. It's a couple of excellency policies, your policy costs so much. Today, the effects of this policy oblige us to say that it is wrong. That 500 million has nominally increased those pensioners' pensions by 10%, but has actually reduced the possibility of living with that pension by 30%. That's how much the euro went against the dinar. We keep saying that you are, the pensioners have created something, but it has failed, Mr. Colakovic. It fell apart with the states that were left behind. From this country, Mr. Colakovic, more than a million young people have left, highly educated, those on whom the future was to be built, those on which you worked today with some new energy. It's probably failed, I don't know which one it is, but I guess it's failed, like all the other companies in Serbia that failed, like that Jues style, that Sartid, where mushrooms, mushrooms, Mr. Colakovic, used to be a big company. Now, these rights that you are calling upon, we can agree to try to make these rights happen as soon as possible and realistic, to make our stock market dynamic, to trade the actions of the Fund, to have the best managers sitting in the Pension Fund, to introduce rigorous control, to be cruel to any abuse, to punish employers who cheat on their workers, to commend those who respect their workers, not to return the point of Serbia's history back, so that the state now takes action from businesses that have failed in the privatisation process (President: Three minutes). ..so now the state will be smarter than it was ten years ago. We know he won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34309	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34310	I'll just add something, because these days it's often mentioned, Mr. Colakovic, which we're responsible for. What are we responsible for? Are we responsible for the collapse of those states? What's been going on for the past 20 years? There was something, a failure, a fund gone. Excuse me, did my children, who were born after 2000, vote for Milosevic and that authority that destroyed them? I'm sorry, you may not have personally, but it's amazing to say, transferring what happened in the late '80s and the terrible 1990s to someone who's only going to be born tomorrow. It is, excuse me, selfishly and our amendment has only the intention of, how can I say, raising our awareness and saying – hey, when you talk to a grandson, that grandson will tell you – Grandpa Momo, in order to get a pension tomorrow, I have to start working, to start working and not go into immigration, you need to show some solidarity with us. It's in your interest, that's all I'm telling you. All right, Pups, all right, your 300,000 votes, not yours, but the three-member coalitions. Well done, but on behalf of the LDP, we're trying to tell you what's going to happen tomorrow. Let go of the past and don't run away from that past. Say yes, it was, it could be, then we went a little crazy, we destroyed everything, now let's see what happens tomorrow. It's a sincere acceptance of responsibility, an honest look at tomorrow and watching and thinking about grandchildren.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34311	Right on line, MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34312	I can accept it, Mr. Ostia, the past until the 1990s when I was working. I want to take it, but don't pay my respects to the '90s and this. Please, I also cannot accept what happened from 2000 until 2008. Since 11 June 2008 I accept. So this is where I listed the data, but you won't mention it. What are pensioners and what are these measures? Since 2000, you've been avoiding it to confirm or accept, 200 billion, 150 billion privatisations, so normally that part of the funds should have gone to the fund. About the fund, I agree. I spoke last night. Weak as you will and should reform it, and the service of the fund, and not be party and it is not party. We're not the head of the fund. I'd like to ask you, in that sense, that we have a complete understanding of the pensioners. I'm telling you that pensioners want to accept the division of responsibility and want to accept that they primarily stimulate their children, their grandchildren, to live better and to provide them with a better perspective than they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34313	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34314	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at one point we could look at who the government is here, and who the opposition is, since I have the impression that the representatives of the government are constantly justifying themselves to the opposition, are asking for solutions from it, and we are actually commenting on the amendment that the government made to the MPs of the opposition, or the Assembly. The DSS parliamentary group, which is otherwise the opposition, to remind you, has submitted an amendment to Article 1 and in this Article 1 you have foreseen, it is the whole law that you have brought here, that pensions, monetary compensations, the amount of the general points are not changed in 2010, as they did not change in 2009 and that they remain at the level of October 2008. We believe, and I also point out the reasons why we think it is, that you don't really have to commit to the whole of 2010, because I see very optimistic tones that in 2010, there are going to be some shifts and we don't think you have the right to take another year away from your pensioners. You took away their end of 2008, you took away their entire 2009 and you have no right to subtract from them in 2010, no matter how high your ideals and your desire to help them, so we felt that it was necessary, for example, to remain frozen pensions by 30 June 2010, and to later see what could be done for the pensioners. When we submitted the amendment, we had a few facts in mind, and I'd like to explain them. It is quite clear from your discussions, it is clear to everyone in this country that the pension system is unsustainable. We have a situation at this point that 30% of the budget is being spent directly into retirement. We have a situation to increase the number of pensioners. I see, according to the leaders, who are also MPs here, the board of directors of the Republic PIO Fund, that next year will increase the number of pensioners by 1.8%, which would appear to be around 20,000. I see that here in the Assembly, and I can see that there is another project in public that is called social pension and is quite justified and that will contribute to a certain number of pensioners who will be involved in the payment of this fund. I've got one more thing and I see it. What this government is doing, far from having 200,000 new jobs fulfilled the promise of pre-election campaigns, we actually have a situation where an increasing number of people are out of work. Those of you who have an internship, who could get in front of the pensioners, they just spill over and turn into pensioners. I'm talking about an extremely large number of pensioners who are going to show up at one point. With such things and such payments, the fund cannot exist. On the other hand, you also have that the IMF is constantly warning you that you need to reduce the share of pensions in GDP, that at this point it is about 13.1%. By 2016, you have to cut it to 10%. In this year you have to reduce it to 12.3%. With a budget like this, it's impossible. Secondly, continuous reforms are being announced. In 2008, you were talking about reforms in the campaign. You told us when we adopted the 2009 budget that pension system reforms are right on the threshold, because you also understand that this is unsustainable. But we don't know anything about him today, like we didn't know when you talked about it. Let me remind you, we have three great experts on these issues. We have a Prime Minister who does this, we have a minister who does this, and we have a PIO fund with all of our big management furniture. From all of this he cannot appear before us the bill, and when he will be, we don't know. One more thing to remind you of. Gentlemen, you've been credited with fiscalization, the sustainability of the pension fund. You have to come up with a proposal for reform for a variety of reasons, and this is one of them, but we can see that nothing is said publicly. It's obvious that this proposal is being prepared in secret. I don't know why he's so secretive. I'll remind you of the statement by Minister Ljajic, who says it must be, and I don't know what it looks like. I'll remind you of the statements from the board of directors who say – we have no idea when pensions will cool off, whether or not inflation, whether or not with profits, therefore, a complete secret about all this. What's scariest and most affected pensioners is that pensions were raised the last time in October 2008. Then they were increased linearly, which is a special story I'm going to talk about, because we submitted as a parliamentary group and the next amendment. From October 2008 to December 2009, pensioners received nothing. The same month when pensions were increased linearly by 10%, electricity, transportation, everything else was increased, not to say everything increased in 2009, although statistics warn us that the consumer basket is cheaper, that our purchasing powers are higher. I've been to stores where pensioners bought 150 grams of meat, gentlemen, so I'm not sure your statistics are reliable. So, not only will pensions be frozen in 2010, as you planned, but it will be until April 2011. It's a lot because of the fourth thing we want to talk to you about, which is poverty. I warn you that you have no right to lie to pensioners and it is obvious that because of any campaign or other, you are not telling the truth, gentlemen. I may have said a harsh word, but what comes to the DSS parliamentary group, and the pensioners do, is exactly their need not to lie to them anymore, not to tell stories that can no longer pass. People are very dissatisfied and very poor. Here's the data from "Strategic Marketing", which was published in May. From May to this day, the situation is drastically worse. It's poor 426 thousand older people over 65, half of which are socially endangered. So the state has to take care of this. We're telling a story about whether their rights are fictitious. Of course, their rights are fictitious if no one cares about their rights anymore. You are power, gentlemen. You can't honor us for us to talk demagogy, you're the government, you have to ensure what you promised people. I also warned in October 2008 and when we adopted the budget in January 2009, this law here was revised from January 2009, the changed date. As one esteemed speaker here says, we have been able to see the problem. Since the gavi, gentlemen, you've seen, pensions have been frozen. There's also a lot of sick pensioners with you and your false promises. It's not gonna happen. You have a situation where pensioners are starving because half of people are receiving, of 1,600,000 pensioners, minimum pensions, sub-average and minimum pensions. You're starving 700,000 people. Yesterday I said the data, I will repeat it, it is drastic – 111,600,000 are spent, we see from the report of the audit institution, for catering services. Let me translate, it's two comas one million meals for folk cuisine, gentlemen. That's 25,000 people who can get 83 meals, let me translate. That's what I'm talking about. It's your pensioners. Let's not humiliate them whether it's the past, the future, whether it's this or that. They're our fellow citizens who've earned all their pensions. Make and reform the fund and don't break any more laws like this, because while these governments are and while these laws are, there's no better for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34315	Six minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 1a be added after article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34316	I'm going to continue this story because it's very drastic. In October 2008, we warned you about what you're doing with that 10% increase. This increase that was fictional, I can tell you, is a materially very costing of Serbia's budget because you miscalculated, as you calculated when you were building a government. Well, I guess math's not your strong suit. So when you made that increase, you linearly increased pensions, so those who had 11,000 got 1,100, and those who had 100,000 got another 10,000 to that 100,000. It's not just what you're saying, it's not socially responsible, that you're saying that you're a socially responsible coalition, that taking care of everything, that's not fair. Secondly, we had an economic crisis ahead of us that was coming. In order to survive it, we had to be solid. I've heard the word "solidarity" ten times today, so we have to solidarity, we have to do this. Is solidarity that you've increased your pension by 10,000 and given someone 1,100 and said it's solidarity because he'll survive. It's not. It's not solidarity. We were absolutely right back then, and we're not glad we were right. We wish we had made a mistake and the pensioners did get it. In January of last year, when you were the same law as this one, I repeat, put before us again, we then wrote to you an amendment and we expected at least MPs who advocated that they only defend pensioners' rights, that they would support the amendment. We suggested that pensions be categorized and that those who had the least, which are social cases, and you know how many you have, 326.000 of those who don't have 80 euros per month. So for them, it was the category to simply increase their pension 10%, to find space in the budget, to increase that category above which pension is relatively poor by 5%, and to reduce those large pensions by so much. That would be solidarity and that would be fine. You didn't support us. Actually, to fence up, I don't remember if you supported us, I don't think you did. On the other hand, none of you have done what you promised, and now we remind you again, and we remind you of this research, we remind you of the research that Ju-end-di-pi did when he advocated social pensions. You have dramatic data in your free research. You have a book that came out, a brochure that came out of that research. It's said-- they can't wait. That's what this is about, gentlemen. Accept our amendment. In January when we explained this amendment, Mrs. Finance Minister, who is here today, had the exact same attitude towards the issue and for some reason, and that reason could only be that within your coalition you were guessing, not to ask the woman who is professional in what she is, and that's the budget, and that she had to swallow all this to be peace in the coalition, that the government would survive. So we're giving the Serbian government and the ruling majority again, I'm not talking to anyone in particular, not a single party in particular, help the poorest pensioners, a group that has the least right to rebel, and that's what we here today, MPs, we need to find a way to raise our hand and vote for the amendment that the DSS has tabled, because that amendment will give the poorest pensioners 10% increase. They won't be frozen pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34317	Four minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? People's MPs Momo Colakovic and Sinisa Stamenkovic are in the report. You do not have time at your disposal, since the time of the parliamentary group and the time for an authorised representative has been used. There was no reason for the replicas in the presentation of the People's Parliament. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34318	I'm referring to Article 104. Publicly speaking, I personally support the DSS amendment to this law. But let me tell you something about the explanations. In 2005, the Law amending the Law on invalidity and pension insurance was passed. You know who the minister was, and then the criteria were 98 to me, and you two to me. It was economical as a sustainable law. I don't think so. I also agree with the need to reform. In the previous debate, we said so. Something about a linear increase. That's when we talked, and your amendment couldn't be accepted because the whole system would be destroyed. We've proven to you that whoever has a pension of 15 grand and had 10% - 19.5, and whoever has 15 grand and one dinar, worked for five years and invested more in the fund and had 17 grand. It's unsustainable. That's why we didn't support that amendment. Same thing now. That's why we supported saying that the state and the municipality and the city and the province and that they have to take care of their citizens and pensioners, and of socially endangered families, and of the Roma, and of children and young people, etc. Then let's look for a solution in that sense. The system must be preserved, and social measures and social dimensions on the other side and we must say that they cannot live from it and we are ready to single out as we do (President: Two minutes). ), as does Jagodina, Ruma, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34319	There's no breach of Article 104. There was no explanation in your explanation if such a change was made. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Time available to the parliamentary group for 14 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34320	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. I see the same situation as it happened in January. I remember very well. And in January, you supported us in the same words, but you didn't vote. I can see there's one big one now, but. On the other hand, I have to say that our amendment applies to the whole period during the crisis, not just in 2010, but to the whole period until the issue of the crisis is resolved in this country. What you said, some bad math again. Our mathematicians count differently and what we have suggested is precisely the fruit of people who did their job very well in 2005. Pensions were low then, it's true, but the system was sustainable. You know, that difference, just a small one, exists. Now we have a problem that the system is not sustainable and the government falls and the state falls, the budget goes down. It's the only problem we have that's different. The second thing you said, which I have to respond to, you suggested that local self-government and provinces also take care of their pensioners. Please, where is it? I'm from Valjev. Valjevo is a very poor city. Is the pensioner from Valjev, my neighbor, my mother, in a better position or in a worse position, because she lives in that town than someone who lives in Belgrade? That's ridiculous. That's the category the state has to worry about. There's nothing about local self-government and there's nothing in the province. What you're doing is a different story. You're trying to raise votes, so you're counting on Belgrade to be big, the budget is big, so we're going to give a little bit to the pensioners, somewhere else in Serbia, and that's very little, because Serbia, Jagodina and some other cities, in Serbia is a bankruptcy municipality, then that's a very different question. The issue is a matter of some of your priorities as to how you will fight for votes, and that costs the citizens of Belgrade, Serbia, Valjeva, Užica and more. The local self-government can't be responsible for its pensioners, it can't. It's a matter of state. They weren't investing in a fund in local self-government, they were investing in a government fund, you know. If we're going to tell that story now, we're going to give it to them from charity. It's not charity, they don't deserve charity, it hurts them more than anything else. It's not about the three thousand or four thousand that they're going to give them, it's about people who have their own name and name, their working status, their centuries that they've spent at a company. These are people who have their own dignity. It's their pension, you're absolutely right about that. They have the right to do so and they cannot be decided by anyone - we decided in 2001 that we would be. It's acquired law, gentlemen, it's a legal category. It's not up to me or you or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34321	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic has been re-declared. You do not have the time or the parliamentary group, or the authorised representative. Please do not abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. The right to the replica is given during this session and otherwise, when the right to the replica is clearly established. In this case, you do not have the right to reply, given that nothing has been done to make further explanations, except what you have as an impression of it, and that is not enough reason for replication. Please do not abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34322	The abuse of the Rules of Procedure, it is not a feature of this political option in this House. If anyone spoke with respect to other MPs and present officials, they were PUPS MPs. The Rules of Procedure have been injured in Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. The MP cannot talk about social groups and give qualifications as they were given to a previous participant in the debate. A group of pensioners who received social contributions through certain budgets of local self-government are deeply founded in the Social Giving Act, not the will of social groups themselves, or it is the will of some local self-government who had money to help the most vulnerable group of pensioners who have received under eight or below 12,000 dinars. The fact is that these 13,000 pensioners who received the two-time assistance feel that they are not in pain, but that they should and should have been solved the problem they had. So we can't say that it hurts or offends them, on the contrary, it's just one compensation for the problem they've been in. On the other hand, I'd like to add that we also support this amendment, but don't let out the fact that you drove 200,000 people away when you were in power to retire, that you drove 150,000 people to the labour bureau, that you took 8,000 people to the administrations to work and today, and now we're all fighting together in our heads how to get rid of that group of people. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34323	There was no violation of Article 104, if there were, the MP would have been warned, so warned. Someone's ignorance doesn't have to be offensive. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34324	This debate today is interesting, although this law on additions to the law is really short, there is practically only one member, but the debate is interesting for the simple reason that the Government is wisely silent, and some parliamentary groups are recognised as representative representatives of some policies. The pensioners will hardly be satisfied with this debate, especially those hungry to eat these good words and these great worries about who the past is, who the future is, etc. What is important, both these important amendments that have been tabled on this bill, which aim to enter the matter of personal rights, do not solve the problem. The applicants of these amendments are aware of these facts, but what we must all be aware of, and especially those who exercise power, is that as a year comes, more and more needs arise in this area of mandatory pension-inhabitation state insurance as a guarantee intervenes in budgetary means to address the lack of funds in pension-inhabitation funds. It can't be said that it's a trend, it's something that's inevitable, it has to happen. Why? Because in the existing system, which has been modified in relation to the 1974 system or some year around that 1974, all payments to the pension-involvement fund were once social property, are now state property, and when some rights are used, so it's a material basis, then some other rules apply. The link between a former employee who allegedly paid him off now as a pensioner is a kind of transmission of the system of fiction. That is why the second and third pillars of pension-inhabited insurance are needed, but this authority is unable to introduce it. What is this power capable of? She's able to negotiate with the IMF, she's very happy to get orders from them to cut out pensions, that part of the budget, and she's looking for modals to get some balance, to get as little out of the budget as possible, and that really means less pensions. By adopting this law on amendments and additions to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, most actually vote for a realistic reduction in pensions. This is the inevitable consequence of something frozen in October 2008. That's why pensioners go to the village, go to the cottages, do agriculture, work. I have to tell you that in this EU too, a little bit, so you can run into a man who has two or three jobs, even though he's in a working relationship. It is now a liquid in the EU. Since the euro arrived, the majority has been living not only on one job, on one salary, on one working relationship, but on additional sources. Someone's a cab driver this afternoon, someone's a moller. People get along there and they wind up, because the liberal concept of economics has experienced a total fiasco. You can see that even the representatives of the most liberal economies reach out for state interventions, and in the United States, where the pillar of individualism is. Obama just printing money and sending it to banks, etc. Even so, there's a lot going on, and it gets the Nobel Peace Prize and immediately sends 30,000 soldiers to Afghanistan. But, come on, it can all go through today. I would just ask that when you do this reform of the pension-involved system, however, make some ideological basis for it, do something that is programming principles, do what the goals are, what it wants to achieve, and, if possible, avoid being contradictory. I don't want to mention names right now, but there's been some nebulosis. Retirement is a social category, especially in a mandatory pension-inhabitation system. It is unacceptable that a man who has exercised his right to retire should go to additional forms of social protection towards the state. If we get into this situation that it has to be done, then the pension system isn't right, it's not fair, it's not real. It is believed that when a man retired that receiving a pension was a material expression of his rightful solution to all his social problems. He doesn't need to go to the People's Kitchen, he doesn't need to go to the Center for Social Work to ask for one-time help or some sort of material security, etc. This kind of social assistance and social protection provided by the state is intended for the sick, for those who do not work, who are in a difficult material position, but not for the pensioner. For him it is understood that the pension he receives solves his social needs. I am simply afraid that some finance minister and some minister of labour and social affairs, faced with the problem of how to reduce public costs and how to keep the budget, that simply the state is not bankrupt, that it is a completely different process than what was proposed to the amendments, that pension cuts may occur, because someone will suspect that the pension is a huge cost to the state, and the costs should be fucked. Anything is possible in this Serbia. A few years ago we had a surplus in our budget, remember, so a man got a medal, a reward, the best finance minister in Europe, all the time. Next year's deficit, we're gone. What is it, people, what happened overnight? You see what the turbulence, the salty mortals in Serbia, is all democratic, all with a full appeal to legitimacy, because that's what people who choose in the elections do. Yes, with one parole, they went to elections, another one was held when they demonstrated their coalition capacity maximumly, so that they could go with everyone, just to make a government. This is the normal consequence of logic 126 - we can do anything. This is a normal consequence. This is real lawfulness. The amendments to change something, it's impossible. Remember, from October 2008 to December 2010, that 26, 27 months, someone will live with the same amount of pension. Do you think that when that man went to the polls, that he voted for it? He didn't vote for it. He believed he had the right to coordinate his pension, as it was written in the law? He's not happy, but let the law be respected. You can't provide that. For you, the prize is on the quiz - the global economic crisis, as a very serious excuse why something is not possible. That's our problem, that there are no new jobs, that there are no new investments, which has responsibilities. There are tasks for infrastructure, but there are also responsibilities for the tax administration, for public finances, to learn accountants, irrational costs. That's our problem. If it wasn't for those pensioners, the village would be dead, if you knew. They're back there, they're processing that land. That church girl could somehow survive in the village, in the city they couldn't. And they put up with people. They're waiting for another hoax, someone's gonna cheat on them again and vote against them, unconsciously. So, what can we expect? Every year, pensions, in the part where the state comes from the budget, will appear as a higher cost. Why? Because the perspective of reducing that job opening, the increase in salary, it's gone, that's what you said. You said -- 200,000 new jobs, at the end of this government's term, out there in 2012. Now it's in the firing phase of 10,000 to 20,000 every month. Chaos is in the judiciary, chaos in state authorities, etc. I'm really afraid that some minister comes in and says -- a huge expense -- we're changing the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, there's no harmonisation, we're cutting it, we're coordinating it once in 10 years, or what Zoran Ostojic said in BiH. There's different guys doing it, not wasting this time on these things. But there's no such thing as a material assumption for normal finance in the country. You've transferred payment traffic to banks, they won't accept that they condition some payment by pre-paid contributions. That kind of conditioning isn't a banking business. You're being moved coldly. Now you're building some new institution to keep track of, and you don't have a system. Like a goose in the fog and over here and over there. No more patience for this kind of improvisation. You were told in time what could happen and, unfortunately, everything you were told would happen because you were stubbornly going one way, uncritically looking where that road was going to go. Now this can't be fixed with amendments, it can't. And these two fundamental amendments have only been submitted as a sign of revolt, anger, to open the question, because in this country the only thing that never opens up is the question of responsibility. You know, what a man thinks, it's his fortune, but what he says, as a public figure, he doesn't have to slave, it binds him. I hope that time goes by so that someone can make false promises, trick citizens, whether with a bag, whether with this, whether or not, win something, come to power and change 180 degrees of politics compared to what he promised. That's what's been happening to us all the time, not since 2001, and it's happened before, but it's got to stop somewhere. Consider the position of the man who is exercising his right to pension in, say, October 2010, statusally, in relation to the pensioner who made his retirement legally in September 2008. Have you thought about it a little bit, you in government? You haven't made systematic discrimination against people who, under relatively similar conditions, when I say the same conditions, I mean -- the same year they're standing up for insurance and relatively the same separations that were, the same salary that was recorded for years, that they could be at the beginning of an irregularity. No, you're not interested in that. You are tasked with giving evidence to the IMF that social policy is being led through the budget at the same level as in 2009. It is a condition for one of these laws of duty to be ratified in the National Assembly. You're being led by it, you don't see the right of a pensioner. You don't see this man, as an individual, whether he can in agriculture with 6,000, these others with 12,000, 20,000, 30,000, if they can live, no. Then you put some intergenerational difference into the story. Why are you doing this? The goal and dream of everyone who works today is that pension, as a reflection of security. There's no division. It's only a matter of time before everybody's retired. Don't open a dilemma where there shouldn't be a dilemma. By order of the IMF, you must not touch the level of social protection, be at the same level as it was in 2009 and in 2010, and how much it will cost, you will justify yourself to them, because it is important to take this 70 million loan for public finances. These partners of yours from the IMF and these banks, let them think about who they work with and who they plant pumpkins with. In these head jobs, I wouldn't go into any co-production with you. Do you know why? I know you well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34325	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 15 minutes have been used. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. People's MP, thank you. I apologize for the failure of the MP's unit. Just sign in again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a very important law on the agenda of our nature and character, but there is an even greater number of pensioners that we are talking about today and to say that it is about 1,600,000. We shouldn't defend and protect pensioners here. None of us have that exclusive right. We should respect them and respect what they have given so far, but unlike the others, in the name of the SRS, I will be very open, correct and fair. Mr. Colakovic, our goal is to provoke you, not personally, but as a parliamentary group and you and the minister as a representative of the government who should listen to all this today and take certain steps. I don't slow down five terms, 300 votes and a few thousand votes, but you're just sending me a message, I don't know if I understand you correctly that Ivica Dacic is a pensioner? If he is, I don't know if he'll be able to handle his internal affairs as he is, but let's put that aside. This is the first government to have a vice-president for social policy in its composition and be around, and I ask you not to take anything personally, first of all, I mean the PUPS MPs, and I will certainly address you in order to transfer the Deputy Prime Minister of Social Affairs to the activity of solving some problems. What do we have as a consequence since you entered parliament? There may not be a single parliamentary group here who has an automatic right to represent just the pensioners, but I still don't want to argue that someone thinks he's the only one who originally has that right. As a consequence, we have the consequence that we have chosen, that is, that this assembly majority has chosen the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy on the one hand and that there has been an increase in pensions at one point by 10% and that is linear. That's when we pointed out it wasn't fair. Every raise for the pensioners is a good thing, but it's not right, I've had a chance to ask one of my fellow citizens - what do you get now after increasing your pension by 10%? Imagine what she told me - I get the chance to buy 30 more bread in a month. It's really a reality in Serbia. We can't deal with the team anymore. We have concrete suggestions, and you have to have that in mind, to solve these problems that way. One of the MPs says I respect and trust this government. I think that's what my colleague Nikola said. We can't believe it. Here's a few facts. If one of the vice-presidents says that about five million Serbian citizens will receive free shares worth about 1,000 euros, of course in dinar equivalent. Now we're talking about, like, 1,200 to 1,500, can we believe it? Neither do you, fellow MPs who support this government. You can't believe this blank thing. It's just that we're not here to believe in blanco, we're here to exercise control between the others and the government's control function. A series of other things tells us we can't believe it. When we had a position or situation that one of the ministers, after the public pressure, had submitted to certain affairs, resigned, so that we could trust the others. I'd say in the last ten years, the public's known, I don't want to get into those motives right now, but the City Secretary of Health has resigned to his post, but of course I don't want to get into the motives of it, because it can show something else and something different. Because of the millions and 600,000 people we all talk about today, representatives of all political parties, we must respect, even if they are representatives of beekeepers. I don't want to say bad and ugly about beekeepers, but here we especially have to bear in mind that between a million and 600,000 pensioners we have the best miners, the best university professors, the good athletes who have celebrated the name of this country throughout the globe. When we know that's the case, we can't have that kind of relationship, but this government for nine years, someone was saying in 2000 we found absolutely empty funds. Pensions were three marks. Gentlemen, do I have to remind you that sometimes pensions didn't even exist? That once a man was a slave or something. The thing, and this society and civilization has progressed, and now we have to talk about it. The time of 10 years behind you, like those who exercise power in the name of Serbian citizens, is not short at all. There was a lot of trouble. To get along, it's come to a lot, and now I don't want to talk about the specifics of the time that brought it back. Were there subjective reasons for all this? Of course it was, but it was something and objective, and we can't go back to history anymore. We don't need to forget it, but we have to think about the future. Retirement can't be used for schooling, for buying real estate. What does that mean he can't? If anyone can save, they can. Retirement should be equivalent to what someone after 40 years of hard work, every time it was, earning a little attention and time to devote a little to himself, that they could symbolically reward someone with it. Now we have a situation for pensioners, but only pensions have to educate their children and their grandchildren. For what? Because their children, although in full maturity and physical strength, are not in a position to work. I can't even see the perspective right now. Why did the finance minister have to include himself in this and why, as an SRS parliamentary group, we want to provoke her and whether there is room, because we heard your final statement last night about the 2010 draft budget in Serbia. Is there room and can the funds be provided? I can. Where they are, I'll name only a few, without the ambition to talk about everyone now. In the National Investment Plan. This does not mean that what is invested in infrastructure should be divided into pensions. No, on the contrary, it is every ministry that aims to finance public works from that part, which is exactly what it decides about these funds, not one ministry that was made artificially. Last night I said what it came from. It came from the office of the President of the Republic of Serbia and now someone will decide from there. We know by local self-government, and also by the ministries themselves, that certain favors are favored. It can't and can't be like that. What's the next source? We need to open new jobs and create a material background, so that we can respect these pensioners and even think about raising pensions. The next one's public procurement. Not to eliminate public procurement, but to carry out maximum control of them. You, Mr. Colakovic, mentioned it only a little bit, but when we specifically talked about it, you didn't take part, though it should have been there. In a large number of public enterprises that have public assets, i.e. citizens' assets, in a way that has fallen from Mars, it must not be so. And in a number of other ministries where we've seen specialized services, contracted services, it has to be strictly and strictly controlled and hence nothing else. In the initial phase, surplus funds are created, i.e. funds are being spent rationally and employment opportunities are being created. This may not be the last time in the government's term to talk about a law like this or something. Who can now convince us that next year we will not think and discuss, or your proposal that it will not be, which we will certainly oppose as we are now doing, that pensions will be unchanged in 2011. I know you don't want to. You didn't even want it for 2010. I'm speaking to the MPs of the PUPS, but it may be the price of a vice-presidential post. Nothing should be more sacred than the interests of the Serbian citizens, or the prime minister's seat, let alone the vice-premise. That's what you're affecting. Show me one will. When I had a concrete amendment to Article 43 yesterday. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia and the pensions of farmers, which were converted into public debt in 2005, do you know what the membership's formulation is -- that these pensions will be paid in full in 2011. Our amendment said it would be paid by 1 July 2010. The finance minister listened carefully, you listened to it, but no one showed good will to solve the problem or to accept the amendment. We have about 250,000 of these pensioners and their incomes, i.e. their average pensions are three times less than the average pensions received by those from the Fund of Employees and from independent work. Let's not have it all on the story, let's do something concrete. Savings seem to be the first form, the first way to help pensioners who have done as much as they could, to help them, and after that savings will probably be real employment. And from that higher income, greater opportunity for pension security, not only for their height, but also for safety. Maybe no one's questioning it now. But what counterpart Zoran Krasic was talking about should be taken seriously. If pensions and salaries in the public sector are frozen, it may not be possible, Madam Minister, you are also a professor of public finances and, if I am mistaken, you will immediately know that a mistake, in the public sector, is not possible, but in the private sector it will be exceptional and it may be, because here the state is primarily cheating on its citizens, and then they may try, but it is once again a tradition, a history that I do not want to talk about right now, they are trying to undermine their country. Who pays the price? They pay those who have already retired and will pay those who are due to leave this year and next year. What will be their starting positions with this law, no one can explain alive. But there's only one truth, it's going to be very difficult and very ungrateful. So much for time, they want other colleagues to talk. So, once again to the PUPS MPs, I had no intention of speaking to you personally, but I intended to transfer you to a place from which perhaps these problems could be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34327	Eleven minutes of Parliament time. The word is Vladan Jeremic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34328	I'll use the time of the authorized person. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that after this almost four-hour debate, we have found together that the existing system of the current financing concept is obviously in a deep crisis which, first of all, appears to be in this deficit financing, with a real tendency that, due to unfavorable demographic reasons, it becomes an unsettled problem. We agreed that the system from the so-called so-called system. intergenerational solidarity is not economically sustainable for several of the most significant reasons. First of all, it is the fact that you know how much pension expenditure is in GDP, if you know how much the budget transfer is, if you know how much the replacement rate is, and if you know what the current ratio of the payers and recipients is, it is almost identical. Disclosure can be about who looks at the facts of this condition. First of all, what is both the responsibility and the state, and thus the government, is the fact that, according to the latest census, Serbia is classified as one of the oldest nations and that more older people are recorded than 65 years of age than children at 14 and less. Also, the problem may also be that many researches suggest that PIO funds have spent in the past 30 years unintentionally money to build various facilities, rehabilitation centres, etc., but the money for these investments has not returned as it should have been. The fact is, everything this government does is exclusively with the IMF's nomination. One of these decisions is the one concerning freezing or, more precisely and correctly speaking, a real pension drop in 2010, and more than I'm sure what the Minister announced, the start of reforms in this area, will follow in March, and will certainly give its own seal. The fact is, unfortunately, pensioners as a category of this society may be the hardest to bear all this happening to Serbia in these years of transition, and it is up to us to try to solve what is a de facto problem in some way. As far as the SRS is concerned, in our opinion, the first step in achieving a solution to sustainable development could be the capitalisation of the Republic PIO Fund. There were words in the morning exchanges of opinions, or discussions that were heard, about what all assets of the Fund were. I will just say that some measures and steps have been taken in 2006 to determine the value of the assets and by the experts, estimated assets only in these Republic centres have been estimated at more than 450m euros. It's clear that these immovableities are the foundation of the fund. This capitalisation, mentioned in fact, would create opportunities for the Fund to manage the property as the real owner and thus continuously increase it, thus directly improving the social status of pensioners. These immovableities and facilities, it should be said, are not only built by state or social money but, above all, by means of insurance companies that have been co-financed through contributions to the fund and continued to fund planned projects, with the sole aim of leading this policy to prevent disability, rehabilitation of workers from particularly vulnerable jobs, etc. However, it is evident that the final word of those who obviously decide on all "reforms" in any area of society is pending. When it comes to the capitalisation of the fund, our view is that this would lead to the creation of a fund by the reputation of funds in some already developed countries, with attributes of an investment fund that will be able to function out of its own resources, which is why it was founded, and that is, above all, the regular payment of pensions to its insurance companies. In this way, the authorities of the State would be reduced to a regulatory, control function, with minimal or almost non-existent interventions. The first prerequisite for this to happen and the fund to function successfully as an investment, is precisely the property it has, starting with real estate, rights, securities of value, shares and the like. According to some experiences, such an investment policy of the fund should be strictly regulated and subject to control by competent state institutions. The established capital from the assets could be invested under strictly defined conditions, and the selection of investment alternatives in the initial period, until the capital market rate, would include state charters of value, a different range of handles, while classical investment forms could only be made possible in the coming period. This, as far as foreign risk is concerned, could mean one particular security, although at the very beginning it could mean slightly less revenue, but at a later stage of capital market development it would likely expand the investment spectrum into more attractive charters than higher yields. In this way, there would also be a partial transformation of pension disability insurance funds into an institutional pension fund, with all the rights and obligations arising from the Investment Funds Act and in some ways a partial privatisation of the fund would be made possible. Therefore, part of the funds needed to pay off current pensions would continue to be secured from the contribution, and most of the capitalised assets, thus reducing direct pressure on the budget, with a tendency to build a sustainable and efficient pension financing mechanism. What we will also probably all agree on, the first-class interest is that just one economically sustainable, fiscally tolerated pension system that is in the development function, but not as the 2010 budget is, but indeed, such that it is something that is acceptable and that simply in the Serbian economy, such a system is needed, not only because of current but future generations which will not be, unfortunately, conditioned by these demographic parameters that I was talking about at the beginning, but solely by economic movements. In addition to the consolidation of the pension fund by indexing pensions with a growth of average earnings, by defining the minimum pension level, these are simply things that do not have a single and administrative approach, but are also a crucial issue and overall reform of the pension system, whose primary objective should be to reduce the budget transfer and introduce a three-pillar insurance system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34329	Before we move on to the next amendment, let me read you this notice. After the conditions have been met, I suggest that I establish my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with the RIK's report on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Aniko Žiros-Jankelic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the proposal from the Administrative Board, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Aniko Žiros-Jankelic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to enter the O.R. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment to Article 2 and added a new Article 3 after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, so I ask if the representative wants the final word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34330	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a debate held today, especially in that debate that was held yesterday, i.e. in the past two days, when it came to pensions, two mutually opposed opinions. Both opinions, of course, are expressed in the form of amendments. According to one proposal, the amendment was essentially to be deleted by the member who freezes pensions in 2010. According to others, pensions were to be reduced essentially by those pensioners who did not have full employment. The most frequent criticism addressed to this bill in front of you is that this proposal is not reformal. He really isn't, but somewhere he has the same goal as the reform law, and that goal is to reduce participation, not speak level, to reduce the participation of pensions in the social product in the time period ahead. That is the goal of any reform, reforms are implemented to cost something less, not more. Also, representatives, i.e. LDP MPs, asked what kind of society 14% of the social product is allocated to pensions. Unfortunately, old man, that's the way society is, and pensioner status can't be lost. I think that these LDP amendments, which basically have a pension reduction for pensioners who do not have full training, are not acceptable because these pensioners are in some way punished by the way that pension is determined. So their pension depends crucially on the size of their pension during the period they worked for. That's why pensions are low, because the job internship was short. In that sense, what is important is not your comparison of the average pension and the average salary, and that is a lesson that all of us here would have to learn, but the relationship or rate of replacement, so the ratio of the last salary and the first pension, and it is in the current conditions when it comes to full-time pensioners 78%. So 78% is the first pension ratio and the last pensioner's salary with a full-time job. If I said this law wasn't reformable, it doesn't mean that the pension system reform isn't in front of us. You all know that the two levers we need to reduce within a certain period are the participation of public consumption in the social product, two levers, these are the two laws waiting for us by the end of March 2010. It's the first law on pension insurance. Maybe in this place you could say what his basic characteristics would be. It will definitely be well-evaluated grounds for obtaining a well-established internship. When I talk about it, I mean the MUP. Also, the age limit will move. It's not going to be 53 anymore, it's going to be 58 years. The same will apply to family pensioners. Definitely, the real law is also in co-operation with trade unions and the Union of Employers, so it is already being run by some kind of public debate. Mr. Krasic usually speaks very convincingly, often funny, but when he quotes my words, it makes it careless. So, I'd say a few things now. Mr. Krasic, maybe you don't have a habit of reading something very carefully, maybe you're deliberately singing my words, maybe you won't understand what's written on purpose. I have no intention of convincing myself with you here what is or is not the definition of the consolidated account of the vault, I and I assume, all these MPs together expect from you, as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance of the National Assembly, that you certainly know that. I know you mind the word "extremely", you said -- extremely squared, I say -- extremely twice, 2009, 2010. This is unfortunately the adjustment of public spending, under conditions of falling economic activity, everyone in life adapts when a shock occurs. Also, I don't like to make arguments in the past, and I rarely get provoked. You did it somewhere today, saying we don't have a system. I assumed that when you said we were missing the system that you used to have that system. Maybe it is. I just don't know what that system was like. So before 2000 there really was a system, really pensions were determined always by law. The only thing you didn't know was when the pension would be paid. So instead of 12, it was often paid 10 or 10 and a half pensions a year. So not 12, but less than 12. This led to a major commitment from the state. We all know very well, and today you here publicly call me what will happen to the payment after, but I repeat, the last wars of debt to farmers who are unfortunately delayed again because this budget cannot bear it. It's already 40 billion back. I mean, maybe it was a system, but the system wasn't good. We may not have a good system right now, but at least we want to make it good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34331	I hereby conclude the review of the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. I'm now determining a suspension based on article 85 of an hour. We will continue at 15.00 hours and the first word will be Mr. Zoran Krasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Before we move on to a search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda, let me inform you of the time available to parliamentary groups and presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. The PUPS has used the total time, a parliamentary group of minorities has at its disposal and time for the parliamentary group and time for the parliamentary group, the New Serbia parliamentary group has the time available to the president of the parliamentary group and nine minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group has used the total time and the president and the parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group – JS has the time available to the president of the parliamentary group and eight minutes and 45 seconds from the time for the parliamentary group, the MP group Advanced has the time and 22 minutes from the time for the parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group's total time for the president of the parliamentary group and 11 minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, the MP group G 17 plus has the total time available, the SRS parliamentary group has four minutes and 20 seconds for the mandated representatives of the parliamentary group and 23 minutes available from the time group, the ZES Group of MPs have a total group of 25 seconds at their disposal and a total. We are passing the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support of the Family with DECOM (single details) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the bill: Lidija Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antić, Milisav Petronijevic, Gordana Pop-Lazić and Radica Jocic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladan Jeremic, so the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we look at the fact that fewer children are born in Serbia, the only thing that was realistic to expect as an amendment to this law is some of the stimulating measures, something that would affect the birth of children. It seems that when it comes to the legislator of this law, it is not possible, but rather some of the measures that are truly anti-populational are proposed. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Lidija Dimitrijevic, who submitted the amendment, worked for a long time on childcare affairs and this is the reason for the submission of this amendment, i.e. to delete Article 3. to give up the intention set out in the Bill's proposal, given that, in the next financial year in the childcare system, the planned savings that will be achieved by amending the Law on financial support for the family with children and this change in the conditions for the achievement of the right to benefit during maternity leave, the absence from child care and the absence from work for special care of the child. counterpart Dimitrijevic submitted this amendment, as I said, on behalf of the SRS. Maybe, but it's already obviously become a practice, it's not right that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy isn't here with us today and he might possibly be able to take part in this discussion, but that's why yesterday we had an opportunity to hear one amazing thing from the finance minister. Mrs Dragutinovic wondered if we wanted to protect the interests of a mother who does not work or an employee mother who receives 200,000 dinars from a private employer. What is raised as a question is – who has defended all employees, whether in private or other employers and other self-employed persons, from the provisions of Article 11(2), which reads: “If the earnings of the employee in the last three months preceding the start-up month are greater than the average income growth of the employer during that period, the employee of the position of the 1st member decreases relatively the difference between the growth of the employee's earnings and the growth of the average earnings of the employer in the last three months preceding the month of departure.” In addition, we would do well to know how many women are employed in Serbia by a private employer with a salary of 200,000 dinars, whether one of these women has more than one child, where private employers have found that they have reported higher earnings for employed families during the observed period, which is of the impact on the pay-up of earnings and whether any of them have been prosecuted for abuse in front of the competent authorities. In one part of the argument that the amendment is not accepted, it is written: “In practice, there is an abuse when an employer in a period that is of no effect on the achievement of this right does not pay a profit in the amount shown as a employee’s earnings, but has the possibility to keep the difference between the shown and the actual earnings paid. “ Given the government’s opinion and the official document, we are looking for an answer to the following question — where employers in 2007, 2008 and 2009 found this irregularity that the employer kept to himself the difference between the shown and the actual earnings paid, was the case against these employers initiated? If neither today nor today, and this will be the case, we do not get an answer, then in written form or in the form of a parliamentary question we will repeat this, and you know that it is an obligation to provide an answer within 15 days. What is also important to know is because of whose mistakes now the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has found it necessary to implement measures that are anti-population and which will hit to the greatest extent women with modest incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34334	Four minutes and 30 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34335	In light of this proposal for a law amending the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the Proposer stated that these changes in the existing law are introduced because there is a need to save, then that these grants are more or less endangering the implementation of the 2010 budget. In one word, this government decided not only to save on the oldest population through the freezing of pensions but rather the second year, but also decided to save on families with children, or children. When I spoke in principle about this law, I said that the bill shows that our government is very shortsighted, because if not, it would have to be aware of the fact that Serbia is one of the oldest countries, i.e. that the Serbian people are one of the oldest in the world and that the percentage in the total population of children by the age of 18 is only 21%, according to official statistics. So this government is very shortsighted. What we wanted with this amendment is to get the story back, or show that we don't accept it, because the DSS thinks that these changes are, as they're proposed, bad and that if there is an abuse through various inspections, it should end. As a colleague who previously spoke to me stated and read the second member’s position or position of an existing member, therefore, since the ministry and various inspections did not apply that position in the existing Law, then it is unusual and irresponsible that you are now punishing the entire population because in some cases you have observed abuses. So, instead of solving this problem through inspections and those who have abused this law so far punish them never to do it again, you're changing this law. That way you punish all those parents who use some of the rights this law gives them, so you gentlemen don't see wood forest. We propose, not as you say, that basic earnings are determined, i.e. average basic earnings employed for the last 12 months of the month preceding the beginning of the beginning of the use of absence, but to look at the previous month before the beginning of the use of absence, which is exactly the law it is. So, we believe that these proposed changes are harmful and we believe that foster parents and parents with children, who use some of these rights, are not a state enemy, that they are using some of their rights under the existing law in no way jeopardising Serbia's budget and economic stability, but rather other problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34336	One minute and 45 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antić and MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34337	I hope that in the afternoon section you will not use your discretionary right to reply, because of the probably 126 MPs needed to vote the budget, let them be over 120 minutes in the first item of the agenda, but it is your discretionary right and I hope that you will not return to the old Rules of Procedure, and that was little and too much like the abuse of your discretionary right. As for this amendment, I would point out that next to the two of us, the same amendment was submitted by counterpart Petronijevic of the SPS parliamentary group, or by a party that is in the ruling coalition, and that the minister, who is present here, and not unfortunately, and I would rather have Minister Ljajic there, would probably have taken our argument, and I hope, on the same basis, Mr Milisav Petronijevic gave the amendment. I'd try a different way of talking. In this area, abuses are likely to occur during the last period, so that the establishment of a working relationship, maternity leave, known or unknown, and for a period of three months as it was regulated, from six months to a month, you extend to 12 months, since in that category, employers, when hiring members of their families, are likely to make big profits for those six or one month. Now you're suggesting that this be 12 months, and that's where I agree with the findings of the previous speakers. When we take a strategy to fight the white plague and the situation of a small number of children born in Serbia, there are different instruments to make so-called. abuses in this area control both in a way and through the operation of a labour inspection, protection at work and through various inspection services, given that in all municipalities you have a greater number of these inspectors. I think it would be quite satisfying for them to justify their salary in a way that controls these legal provisions, not to extend the deadline that continues to cause problems. Given the situation that a small number of marriages have been concluded, that the border is moving to 37 or 38 years in Serbia, I do urge the Ministry's representative to reduce this deadline to six months, and because of the white plague's strategy that various abuses in this area should not be sanctioned in the way that you have provided for Article 3 or by changing Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34338	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34339	Of course this amendment has not been accepted by the Government. However, it is a good time to tell about the whole concept of child welfare in the area of material belongings. In one period of development of our society, maternity, pregnancy, absence from work for child care up to certain years of life, etc. has been defined as one right that continues to be the right of employment for women who are in employment, and as regards those who are not in employment, was a classic example of social protection, social care. Given these negative trends in society in terms of democracy, which have been instigating since the end of 1978, when negative growth rates occurred, the state has had to intervene to encourage and preserve something that is natural, and today it may be even more open. She was present in the '50s and '60s. Just to remind you, it's a period when a large number of employees gave up property to achieve a child's allowance while he was in the industry, because what the state took away on the basis of children's supplements was greater than the cadastrian income of a rural household on some imaginary surface. Today we should definitely resolve the question of whether this incentive for birth and material security to be provided by the state is part of some personal right, part of labour rights or a reflection of a wider social policy, where the state provides a state guarantee, by stimulating something that represents the need of this society. That's the problem with this law and this concept that regulates it, and I can say the ideas that make this change. The idea, what triggered a change of law, is something that deserves special attention. If what the government representatives said in the principle debate about this bill is true, that there are employers who have repeatedly increased incomes in those months that are relevant and which are the basis for determining the future fee, and that even one of the ministers said that the monthly salary was reportedly registered by a million dinars, please excuse me, it is not a question of applying this law, but it is a matter of deeper. If there's something that represents abuse, it probably falls under the Criminal Code, but if it's some other operation, then the question of whether or not taxes have been paid on that profit is a direct question? So the system has the answer to that situation in existing regulations. Of course, there was no answer to the question -- how many such cases were registered, in what kind of business entities? Probably in private companies when it comes to relatives or relatives of company owners, so they can show greater separations, a larger basis for future maternity leave, maternity benefits, etc., but that's one dimension. However, in the light of this law, it is stated that these changes, by average, by expanding the number of months, etc., there is something that represents a justifiable system where justice and justice are manifested. I don't think it can be explained, first of all, because if society wants a larger number of children, then this right should be withdrawn, not only to be an accessory right out of a working relationship, but one general right that has been recognised by every pregnant woman and every family, regardless of their previous status, whether it's in a working relationship or not in a working relationship. Why? Because there is inevitably the interest of society to increase the population, to increase the number of children. In that sense, it should move into the classic social protection guaranteed by the state and probably have some solutions to support in the existing law. I see you've preserved it with these changes. It's that maximum amount of up to five average earnings per employee, that's some upper limit, but from that upper limit when it goes down, some should be found, if I can say, under quotes, "paying classes," that any pregnancy is desirable for society and that it does not depend on any previous status. That's our intervention we've tried to make with these three or four amendments, where we've asked for the respective members to either delete or alter or sort of redecorate. She's a child, she's a pregnant woman, she's a foster mother. Their status is important, not what preceded that status. Were they employed, weren't they employees? If they were busy, what was the profit? Did they pay their contributions? Didn't they pay their contributions? Those things. I think it's unnecessarily entering an area. Probably for the finance minister, the area is important, given that it's money, the funds that go out of the budget, but when it comes to this goal that wants to be achieved, then I think that the importance of this goal far exceeds these things that are quite trivial.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34340	Six minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, together with the correction, MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antić and MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34341	It is my pleasure that Mr Mr Mrkonjic is present now, and since we have submitted amendments to Zoran Antić and me and Mr Petronijevic from the SPS parliamentary group, it does not matter whether this is accepted or not because of the parliamentary group, but indeed as I said just a moment, given the amendments of Article 11, i.e. already new Article 3, so is this Article 5. related to the same story. So 12 to cut to six months. I would like to point out once again that this way, and later in the presentation on other amendments, I am not going to be able to work on a strategy against the white plague. You really can't support your family. In Serbia, you almost have no right to get a job. What are we talking about here? We're talking about situations where someone is employed to exercise the right to maternity leave, child care or special care of children. Indeed, the legislator here, once again, acts discriminatoryly towards that family category, i.e. the possible right to use in the next 12 months what has been achieved in the previous three-six, or proposed amendment six months, and you are increasing the proposed member to 12 months, which is indeed in terms of such a small number of jobs a completely unfulfilled right. Even a child in the employers' category, as if it were just a problem with that category of employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34342	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34343	This amendment is practically bound to the previous amendment to Article 3, where the proposer proposes that the employer is obliged to provide proof to the municipal, or city administration of the basic salary level of the employee for the last 12 months preceding the month of departure. We suggest that it be deleted for 12 months and that the employer is obliged to deliver a certificate for the last three months. So again, we think it's not good for one country and the people that they think they have to save and that the savings apply to children. We are in 2003, then the government adopted a poverty reduction strategy, and this strategy is accompanied by a reduction or increase of different groups in society. What's very bad is that the number of children at risk, children at risk of poverty, is never reduced. So, children are the most vulnerable group from year to year when it comes to poverty. We believe that this bill on amendments to the existing Financial Support Act with children is also a direct violation of child rights. A committee, or subcommittee on the rights of the child, has been formed and operated in this congregation. The subcommittee is chaired by the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. As far as I know, and it's very bad, I wish she was here so let me ask her, this congregation subcommittee didn't discuss this bill at all. So, as far as I know, the last session discussed the bill on preschool education. As you know, that law is not on the agenda of this session at all. It's good about that law to declare that subcommittee of ours. However, the subcommittee also had to discuss this bill, and how this bill affects the rights of the child and how much these changes threaten that already threatened group when it comes to poverty. In the latest report by the Citizens' Protector for 2008, we all received the report, the Citizens' Protector is of course following the status of children's and children's rights, he says he has seen significant problems in the application of individual laws and even of this existing law before the amendments. There have also been observed violations of child rights, and this contributes to the fact that social transfers representing only 1.4% of GDP are insufficient and that this percentage is the lowest in the region. So, we live in one poor region or part of Europe, and in such a region, the transfers that we set aside for the welfare, including these, are the lowest. So we think that you should accept this amendment and that there is absolutely no need to save on this population and on their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34344	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34345	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Member of the 6th and SNS interventions when it comes to profit compensation, this has already been discussed by my colleague, Mico Rogovic, here is a parental allowance. So you define this member that the parental supplement, first of all, of course the mother, although there is the possibility that they may be fathers, have the right to a parental supplement for the first, second, third and fourth children, of course, with certain conditions. What SNS intervention is, and in order to repair the demographic image of Serbia, which is very bad, we will all agree on, but what very little it is, at least in the opinion of opposition SNS MPs, where we are fortunate to have come up with some law that would treat population policy and child care, about birth in some long-term period, because the situation here is extremely bad. The proposal is to refer to every child and to us it is simply not clear why the promoter has limited himself to the first, second, third and fourth children. Anyway, we have very few families that have three or four children, let alone five or six or more children and that these families are extremely socially endangered anyway, so there was no reason for us to put this restriction in this member of the law. It might be more logical for the first child to eventually give up the parental allowance, and if families who have more children were given that right, they would be greater savings, and I think it would be fairer, so we think that this amendment should have much more understanding by the government, that it is much more reasonable and that the solution proposed is much better than what we have in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34346	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34347	Here, otherwise, the promoter adds a new attitude and I think it's a good one, that's one problem that's seen in the practice of applying this law, which is that when they get or expect a fourth child, they don't get a fourth but they get a fourth and a fifth. So twos are born or possibly threes. It happened that parents couldn't have this fifth child who was a twin to make a child's allowance. So this law removes it, and it says, even at the fourth birth, if there are twos, threes or more, that child from that birth will also receive a child's allowance. It's a very good amendment to this law, so these problems don't arise. I guess it's not a big number, that there's a small number of people who get at the fourth, but I'd like there to be a lot more of them. What we are interventioning here is to delete the part where it is said: "and based on a special solution from the ministry responsible for social issues". So this is where it appears in the fourth, or fourth pregnancy twins, that it has to be brought to that fifth child a special solution to the ministry. We don't see why it's necessary, if this change defines it clearly. You replied to me, I must admit that I didn't understand that very well, which is why it is necessary, or that there must be some additional control of the order of birth. Right? However, according to this logic, it could also be that the competent ministry must bring a special solution to the third child and that the order of birth is now being checked. This is completely illogical and incomplete, especially given how slow our administration used to be. So how much time will the ministry have over the year to consider these special cases? I'm saying again, I don't know why this is being introduced for this twin pregnancy, that's the fifth child from the fourth birth, if you don't have it, say, for the third child? I guess that's not there, I hope not, but if a parent is going to play this law, he can do it when it comes to a second or third child. You're not asking for a special opinion from the ministry. I find this completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34348	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute was used. Anyone else want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34349	Article 6 and before that, Article 14 of the proposed law, and now with amendments to Article 6, as counterpart Zoran Antić said, in attitude 7, says that the right to a parental allowance, if it meets the requirements of Article 1 to 5 of this article, can also be achieved by the father of a child, if the child's mother is not alive, if she has left the child and we are adding here to the amendment – unless the mother is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous principle debate, I noted, and this is indeed a great deal of discrimination. You know that in Serbia there are over 500 mixed marriages currently, for example, given the loss of the right to a parental allowance. I talked about the area of Stara Raška, i.e. the municipalities of Sjenica, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, where thanks to the action of the Milivove Mica Mandić Foundation, i.e. Stara Raška, concluded in the past few years over 100 marriages between Serbian citizens and citizens of the Republic of Albania and that they were born automatically lost rights, since mothers are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that citizenship is foreseen to be obtained after three years of life in the marriage community with a spouse of the Serbian citizen. I must again for Mr. Mrkonjic's sake to present the information that these families have in the area, and this is about the survival of the village and the fight against the disappearance of the village in the area of especially the Cave. So how many families lose this discrimination, how much money? For the first child – 26.663 dinars, for the second – 104.266 dinars, for the third child – about 188,000 and fourth child, since this law is no longer foreseen – 250,000 dinars. You have a situation that under the same roof two brothers married Albanians and had four children under the same roof. You can imagine the loss of such a family. Is this a strategy against the white plague? Is this a strategy for the survival of rural areas, for the survival of the village or what is this about? I really cannot understand this view of the ministry and the finance minister on these reasonable explanations and such visible reasons – that the amendment is not taken into account. We have a situation that these people, and there are other situations, not only in the area of these municipalities, can't get citizenship in three years, and that some celebrities, we offer people of the world citizenship within five seconds. Then it's discrimination against the women mentioned in these spaces and other situations related to mixed marriages. Why don't these children, born in these marriages, have the same rights as all the other little ones? If you really don't understand this situation, I guess the public will judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34350	A minute and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and with correction, together with MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34351	Everyone at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy knows what kind of disturbance has taken place since 1 January 2006 when the deadline for submission of requests for parental allowance from 12 was reduced to three months. It can also be seen in the records how many denied requirements for the exercise of this right and what is the reason for the refusal of the request. In 99% of the cases, the request was rejected because it was not filed within the scheduled time limit. See how much you have attached to the request for documentation justifying the reasons for the submission of the request after the expiry of the scheduled period. Indicators say that no single request with complete documentation confirming that the parent was indeed prevented from submitting the application within the deadline, no request was resolved positively, all were rejected. See in your records how many complaints you have filed for the negative solutions that have been made because they have been delayed with the application. Is one of the only complaints respected? And the reasons why he's late with the application are really justifiable. The amendment, tabled by counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic, explains the illness of a child or a mother at the time of submission. It is simply amazing that this amendment did not come to an understanding or that it was not accepted. What's a positive idear's intention is to extend the deadline from three to six months. In our opinion, the only rightful solution is really a 12-month period. Another positive solution exists in this bill, which is that the future right to a parental supplement will also be able to achieve parents whose child whose previous birth order is placed in an institution because of the need for continued health care and care, that is, if there is a reasonable reason to accommodate the child of the previous birth order with mental development disorders, degrees of severe and severe mental disorders, with severe physical illnesses and damages, as well as multiple disturbances in development. This is something that really needed to be regulated like this. We also need to point out that in the future, the right to a child's allowance will be able to achieve both foster parents or guardians for up to four children of our own and for every child without parental ageing that is placed in his family. We are now, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, expressing hope that there will be representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the near future, with a proposal to amend the Social Protection and Social Security Act, in order to provide the possibility for related families to be treated as foster parents and to be able to count on foster benefits. In this way, children who are left without parental care would be placed in related families who are now, without compensation, unfortunately are not in a position to care for the children of relatives, so these children go to foster care in other families, in people they see for the first time and are not emotionally bound. Let's get back to the story of the parenting supplement. We regret that the previous amendment submitted by counterpart Radica Jocic was not accepted, which suggested that the amount of the parental allowance be paid once. To reject the amendment, a sincere explanation has been given, it is not accepted for the reason that there is no necessary funding for its implementation in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Perhaps it would be correct if, in order to reject the amendments of my colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic, you explained that the deadline is shorter so that many parents would lose their right to a parental allowance, so that you simply achieve some savings in the budget. If that wasn't your intention, with all the argument being made, it is certain that you would accept the amendment of counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34352	Four minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34353	The problem of cutting deadlines for submitting documents from 12 months to three months, as foreseen by previous amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act with children, and they say that a request for the right to a parental supplement with the necessary documentation is submitted no later than three months of child's life. By supplementing this law, the legislator proposes that it be six months and SNS 12 months. Now I'm going to try to explain those reasons to you. This problem is particularly highlighted in newborn, sick children. They've been in the hospital for a long time, and you know it's necessary for all the paperwork to get a release list from the hospital, as I told you last time. It takes months and months, and with all that, you unfortunately have a sick child at home. For unscheduled municipal services, homes of health, hospitals and everything else you need to collect a large number of documents to exercise all the rights in the field of this law, and even in the field of parental law. That's why the SNS is proposing that this deadline be 12 months. A reasonable deadline in which the state does not lose anything in particular, but those who are disabled in this situation can be entitled to a parental allowance as well as all other citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any reason not to accept the amendment, because it would mean a lot to such families.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34354	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34355	This is practically related to the previous amendment that I explained. We do not feel that there is a need for the ministry in charge of social issues or social issues to issue a special solution for a child who would be practically fifth. So, in the fourth birth, twins are born, and I emphasized why. Our administration may be in that ministry a different situation, but it's mostly very slow. Since it is now clear that this fifth child who was born together with the fourth child, at the time of the fourth birth, is then precise and that there is really no need for the ministry to make a special solution. I also said that if a parent tries to play or in some way abuse this law, he can do it with a third child. I don't see why a fourth and fifth child is being introduced to this special control measure. I'm saying, it's also an opportunity for the minister, or the ministry, to accept the previous amendment, and this one. It's that the ministry doesn't have to make any special solution, for some extraordinary or special control.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34356	National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 10th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34357	This is also, in my opinion, an improvement of this member of the existing law, because the previous member did not speak about what happens to a child's allowance if the student ceases to be regular. The right to a child's allowance, i.e. in that member, to explain what is considered to be a schooling, is that education within the meaning of this law is to acquire education as a regular student in primary and secondary schools, and in accordance with the rules in the field of education. The next new attitude explains this, because we know that sometimes students cannot attend classes regularly and are then found as an extraordinary student for various reasons, justified. You're listed here, we suggest you delete it. Exceptionally, the property of a regular student is considered to have also a person from sensitive social groups and persons with exceptional abilities that acquire secondary education or education for working as an extraordinary student, if it justifies the possibility of regular teaching. We propose to delete this part of the sentence – from sensitive social groups and persons with exceptional abilities. For what? You're in an explanation, and probably MPs remember that we talked about this when it was the Law on the basic system of education and education, for the simple reason that we could all make a list that was sensitive to social groups. The fact is, we don't have that kind of list anywhere, that you have a list of which are all sensitive social groups. We know that children from the Roma population are a sensitive group, then, that children with some chronic diseases are a sensitive social group. The fact is, that list doesn't exist anywhere. This provides the possibility of a broad interpretation. A parent may feel that his child is also sensitive from a sensitive social group without the legislator’s watching. We don't see the need for this to stand here, but if the child has an excuse and confirmation from the Ministry of Education that he can't attend class regularly, I think that's enough. It may happen that a child cannot regularly attend classes without, for example, a legislator or a ministry not recognising that sensitive social group. So I don't think this should stand here and if a student or child has a valid excuse from the Ministry of Education, where a child is allowed to finish teaching as an extraordinary student, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34358	One minute and 15 seconds of Parliament time. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34359	This member is a common member that we have in every bill that speaks about when a proposal comes into force. I hope you won't adopt this proposal, but if you adopt it, then the way in which you're doing it will change the way you're doing it. You're giving some deadlines here, and since we don't think we should change the way that average earnings are calculated, then it's also logical to suggest that we delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34360	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Presumption of ACCIONARY SOCIETIONS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Mirko Munjic, Bozidar Delić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antić, Jorvanka Tabaković and Stefan Zankov on the bill. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorgenka Tabakovic and Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34361	I said that, in addition to the laws we discussed yesterday, this one for me and for the citizens of Serbia is most interesting because of the consequences that we will all suffer together by introducing illegal and non-constitutional provisions in which property is not equally protected, whether ownership of minority rather than small shareholders is incorrectly expressed by the promoter, where all property does not have equal protection and where competition is literally violated in the roughest way, and the moment we adopted the Competition Protection Act a few months ago. So, one law that introduces cartelisation to the open door, fully responsible here, is represented by a law that needs to bring some positive changes to the business of the Serbian economy. There is another consequence that you no longer have the right to say that you stand for legality. It was in a hurry that this law was passed, as yesterday the Assembly of Commercial Bank Shareholders was held and the law, which we are discussing today, has already been applied. What kind of country do we live in? I doubted that the capitalisation of "The Commercial Bank", but yesterday's signing of the contract between "The Commercial Bank", and on behalf of Mr Dinkic, only formally appeared as the finance minister, representatives of the International Financial Corporation, the German Investment Fund, the Swedish Investment Fund in the developing countries and an agreement under which the "Comertial Bank" will be recapitalised with 48m euros by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation with 42m euros, the German Investment Fund 19 and the Swedish Fund for Investments in Development will invest 10m euros. Do you know what the domestic capital owners say – are our money lame? On a blog going under this news, domestic capital owners say – are Serbian money worth less than those brought by foreign investors, a cartel performance owned by "The Commercial Bank"? What else does this corporate takeover law say? We brought it in because of the capitalization of the Commercial Bank at the moment, it will apply to the largest insurance companies in the most recent time, and then I'll ask myself, on behalf of the SPS voters, that they form a coalition government in which two found, still undestructed financial giants who represent some of the values that have been preserved, are given this way? Let me remind you that by announcing this bill, the value of the shares in the Commercial Bank has dropped by 10%. To whom, why, and because of the amount of services or anything that can be taken under that -- corruption, something like this has been done? Citizens know that the Commercial Bank has been a record recorder for many years after the citizens' savings have been collected. If we're recapitalising the Commercial Bank, what else is left to do on its own, in a market like this, and in such conditions of law enforcement, it works? In order to avoid what has already happened, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1, where I have left the Government with the possibility of doing such a kind of performance where it can sign a joint contract with investors, such as professional investors, funds, banks, investment funds and investment fund management funds and special societies, but, with a little limitation being called that the Government must, in Article 8, change Article 1, explain the existence of special interest in such behaviour. Is there any particular interest? I have no doubt. Whose will we know. I believe we'll find out someday. For me, it won't be enough to know that punishment for someone's individual, completely defined and, I guess, narrow group or personal interest, is a calling in the media or some affair. No, it won't be enough, not even for those who support this punishment voters and for those who create this, to be punished by voters. No, the penalty for this must be in line with what is called the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which the Serbian Constitution must apply. So today, we are discussing an amendment that allegedly discusses the possibility of adoption, at a time when the law, without such an amendment intervention, violates members 84 and 86. The Constitution has already been applied. Let the citizens of Serbia assess.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34362	Four minutes have been spent using the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antić, both the National MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković and Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34363	Article 3 whose solution, in fact, we are erasing only the existence, implies that an inconsistencies shareholder cannot advocate actions, so I can only commend the government in long reasons, that they are not true, but that they did indeed even bother to give reasons. Article 3 argues that at a time when a takeover is carried out, i.e. a forced sale of an action of someone who buys 95% of the shares, in this takeover process, inconsistencies, minority shareholders, cannot advocate their actions, because it has been found to be an abuse of the right to pawn, i.e. to avoid being forced to take someone's actions. I will not convince you of the practice of how citizens explain, when Mr Dinkic, for example, takes a bathroom in a joint apartment and takes from you a thousand euros in shares, not a thousand euros in shares, but your thousand euros, which he buys from you your money, to invest in it and increase its value, for example, this capitalisation, does not ask you if there is anyone who would invest more and better equip it, but then forbids you to use that bathroom. We are entering a modern Europe, we want to reach EU standards, be pedant, clean and wash, and then pass a law that completely destroys minority shareholders' rights. Repeat, gentlemen of the DS, you who wrote such books in 2003, 2004, in 2005, were popular, popular as people who would protect the rights of minority shareholders, presented precise definitions of what institutional investors are, what rights of minority shareholders, which no one can take away from them, what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says about restricting the right to dispose of any property, was it and financially, I am asking you now to tell the citizens how it means when DS applies actions, when it is in a position to exercise power. I will remind the citizens once again that as early as July, when before leaving this market "Intergroup" forced him to take away and redeem, not to say subtract, it is not a proper term, buying out actions by minority shareholders. Some dared, looked brave, to write that property in this country was not sacred. Here, I repeat, the property here is not sacred, when you let someone take away, it doesn't matter if that price is fair or not, the property you have. Now, why don't you tell me, is expropriation under that MG gas pipeline with Russia, which can be justified in general, should be and should be common and general interest in all, so you take away some property, so you give it a market fee like this or a fee like that? Come on, what do you justify taking away the forced, taking away and banning the right to advocate the actions of those who have their owners in law come to them? The constitution does not foresee that restriction in this case. You think that today with 126 or 128 or 129 or 140 and that you have 250 MPs, this book called the Constitution can't be a potter when you drink coffee. She becomes a law like this. I really admire you for the way the law is passed, for believing that no one is looking at this assembly, that citizens don't listen, that citizens don't understand, that they're willing to forgive anything for some new colorful lie. I admire you, but in the way they used to admire Makiavelli to say mean, but I can't admit that even skillfully, very ignorantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34364	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been spent using the time of authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Jorgenka Tabaković and Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34365	I welcome the government and the representatives who are here or are not in a position to show a little more respect for those who have submitted the amendment. If Article 4 states that the Securities Commission has a deadline to comply with its acts with the solutions given in these amendments and additions, how can you write that this does not apply to this law, but rather to the urgency of the conduct, and the applicant of the amendment does not understand very well when he shortened the deadline from 30 to 15 days? Because of citizens who are not in a position to read your arguments, I will read what is written in your article 4th Amendment and the addition of this law. That is just one sentence, which says - the Securities Commission will comply with its acts with this law within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Where do you get the right to be false, I don't know how, but by realizing the amendment, which only number 30 is replaced by the number “15”, you say: “The urgency to which the amendment promoter calls does not apply to the adoption of sublegal acts”. What does the rate of changes in legal acts mean when you have already applied a law that is unconstitutional and for which only sublaws and regulations should be amended? This is ridiculous, the treatment of those organs and people sitting with you in your ministries and it's funny that this Assembly is the government's body of government because of this kind of law-making. As far as we understand these laws and how we understand the solutions you bring here, I will now explain to you. Your defense, the government of the Ministry of Finance, which was supposed to defend this law, that 134 billion euros in value added tax, as a suspiciously designed, unrealistically designed budget category in 2010, where we of the economic team of SNS and I, as someone working on that team, have asked you a question - is this already increased VAT from 18 to 20 or is it a mistake or is it incompetence? There's some unsettling explanation that I have to give you an argument that you're not telling. First of all, you can't go on emergency and emergency incomes from last year, when you gave a billion euros through subsidized loans, of which you gave 32m euros for the subsidized interest to the banks that they earned, and you, because these loans were used to buy permanent, consumer goods, though also floor coverings from Spain and white techniques from Slovenia, etc., were made through VAT at any time, because the credit did not stay in the bank, but went for permanent consumer goods, to each of these transactions 18%, i.e. Exactly and precisely 108m euros. Ninem euros is the excise duty you are forecasting this year as a specific excise on cigarettes and what was an extraordinary income, too, is registration of cars with foreign plates, popular Montenegrins and those "E" tables. What you think is that the ingenuity of economic policy is what's called a submarine system, dives into the black zone, so it comes back again, so it goes back through the VAT or the government takes out of one pocket, and puts it in another, you think that for the citizens or for those of us who understand your tactics is sufficiently convincing and that it's not transparent and airy, here, as I present to you. As you can see, it's all coming out and growing, but the problem is the question -- are you going to be able to rediscover some of the extraordinary incomes on that 20% of the extraordinary incomes this way, to find the unreal level plus 20% of it and increase it, and that's the sum of 34 billion dinars? I wonder, what is this alchemy that you think you should apply or think that we really have mental laziness or any other restriction, and the greatest lack of your consciousness is that someone else works here and thinks about the general interest, so do you take this kind of solution here? This kind of tactics no longer passes, one of my friends would say, not even at the cattle market buyers. None of us are stupid enough or scared enough to talk about these things the right way. It earns the state, the banks earn, and the citizens are concerned with working in their interest, such as the euphemisms for credit subsidy, or giving for the purchase of a 5% censorship that you call 621, the purchase of financial assets, your deposits from the vault are seen and read as money from the budget, and you tell us you have a system and you can arrange the state by borrowing billions and billions of euros that remain in debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34366	Four minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. It is available as authorised representatives of the parliamentary group for three minutes and 45 seconds, and another 19 minutes and 45 seconds. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the international MP Mirko Munjic and joint MPs Jorvanka Tabaković and Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, and a folk MP named Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34367	Although he's a member of 5. The draft law governing the date of entry into force of this law provided for the government to enter into the next day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the RS. Mr. Mirko Munjic asked that it be in accordance with the Constitution, on the eighth day of the day of publication. I must conclude that on page 3 of the arguments are indeed to give reasons why this law could enter even before this deadline prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but I do not think these reasons are justified at all, even contradictory of what is stated in the bill. I'd like to take a turn. I don't know if the government's representatives know we may not even have a Securities Commission. You remember when it was that failed takeover of "The Book of Milos" that that squire somehow passed, had had a heart attack, had somehow passed away, had resigned, after which several more had resigned. Nothing happened, they kept on rowing. Let me remind you that through the Committee on Finance three or four months ago, we asked the parliamentary groups to submit proposals, since, by law on charters, by virtue of the value of the election of members of the Committee on Finance, we prayed and warned the parliamentary groups that, I think, in August, the term of office had expired for these people, and in Article 4. The bill, Mr. Mrkonjic, tells Cvetkovic that the shortcomings in bookkeeping should take a look at what the dactylographies are typing, it is stated that the commission, which has expired its mandate, will carry out the alignment of its acts with this law within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. And especially the reason why this comes into effect before the eighth day of the day of publication is that it's already done. That privileged investor, a professional, who needs to get involved with the state is already there, just waiting for the law. It's that story from a few days ago that we don't have an answer to -- what are standards, European, international, global? I used the example of Austria. Austria nationalized a private bank. He says, well, the international standard is the global financial crisis, a bank very important to Austria's financial system, the state had to intervene. And we had banks that were very important to the financial system, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Our friend Borka was head of a bank. He came in younger and destroyed everything. Says the banks can't be in state property. It's got to be private. How have those standards changed in nine years? Now it's nationalization again. It should be said openly that the IMF has conditioned this debt to be carried out in 2009 and 2010 that the Republic of Serbia reduces its participation in the capital of banks and insurance companies. Now it will act strangely, under the existing law of takeover, the state is excluded from that procedure, it has its monopoly, it can buy internally, but now a investor is being dumped, because he is allegedly working together with the state in taking action, so it is possible that at this stage, where the state takes over, it participates with 1%, and that investor, who receives the status of a professional investor based on only one letter of the Securities Commission, is creeping alongside the state and is not a state, but usually a legal person. That's the danger. In this way you're actually simulating what's done abroad, with the state not owning it, but will participate with 1% in what someone takes together. Whoever works under this law, Mr. Mrkonjic, tell Dacic to arrest immediately, and in five years he can open trial, there will be no mistake, because the sentence is certainly more than five years in prison, but it is necessary to legalize with the votes of 126. We don't want any part of this. We're back up front telling you what's behind this. What is the test of this download? The Metals Bank, Mr. Grouchy. Do you know how they did there? In 2008, an autonomous province withdraws its deposits from the Metals Bank, allegedly questioning the bank's liquidity, introduces Jelasic's temporary measures, shakes the situation there in a few months, find a project to get out of the crisis, said capitalisation should be carried out. How are we going to execute it? In one closed procedure. How? Autonomous province gets state status, that it can be privileged to participate as a professional investor, buy out shares and allegedly stabilise the future development bank, the future monetary bank of an independent state of Vojvodina. Now that this operation has succeeded in Novi Sad, now it's time to go here as well. You know, by the system I saw a frog where horses are weave, and she's got a leg up -- if the Americans can, if the English can, if the Italians can, if the Austrians can, if the Germans can, why can't Serbia? But we don't have the capital to get the state nationalized. The state will go by name, and the material support for nationalization will be, we can assume, we can put anyone on that list -- energy typhoons, trade tycoons and typhoons, because the consequence will be typhoons. That's why there's no Mrs. Diane. She was fighting with me this morning. She wasn't fighting with me. She was fighting with the auditor. She challenged what I read from the auditor's report. But she became a golden, fragile, weak woman. How's that? In the last stage, you brought in a minister who was pregnant, and after giving birth again, to create a picture here are some evil opposition MPs attacking. Everything we told her a year ago about courts and prosecutors, here, you see, just a revolution that doesn't rise yet. Everything was done as we said it would be done. That's why we don't want to vote, Mr. Grouchy, on this bill. Keep an eye on the company you've gotten yourself into.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34368	Eight minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by the MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34369	The amendments we submitted as a parliamentary group ended by returning to some regular deadline of entry into force on the first day of the eighth and in principle debate, and I explained that you in the Government brought in a 27th regulation that prepared the ground for this, you brought in another restructuring regulation, which is another way past the usual client credit check system to channel funds from the government's account, subsidies and various loans to those non-financial organisations, privates, 454 and 451. It's very interesting that no one here takes care of small shareholders, where even those foreign capital representatives who unequivocally admit that such a procedure damages the rights of minority shareholders. What I'm particularly concerned about is that in this country every exception becomes a rule. It's only enough to open an illegal act once. And we here -- once you broke up the session, we interrupted it three times. Even the last time there was an interruption during the vote, then a session, then a follow-up. Now what should be the rule is actually an exception. We expect to introduce normality and look like the world and say, "We'll meet the standards." Every other law has an emergency procedure like this and an entry into force. For this law you should have written -- it went into effect, so we, the Assembly, couldn't get around you as records on the way to the Official Messenger. That would be more honest. Many think that honesty is not a place in politics, and I am convinced that the time will come and that in politics, and in legislation, and in legislative solutions, such a criterion is actually applied as the first, basic and most significant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34370	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We have completed a search of the bill in particular. After we're done, does the Proposer's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt (specificity) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dejan Mirović, Mićo Rogović and Zoran Antić on the bill. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34371	In amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt, and to remind myself that this law was passed in 2005, now changing, it is changing in Article 36 of several parts, attitudes, and this is how the Government imagines changes and additions, I read, extremely of attitude 2, and then to skip a few positions in that same article, exclusively from Article 4. You see, in one single member of the bill, I don't count on another who regulates entry into force, which changes some of the basic text of the law, two paragraphs, two new attitudes starting with the word - extraordinary. What's so extraordinary? What is it that is remarkable and appeared at the end of 2009, and should be valid for us in 2010? This is the possibility that local self-government units are in charge of business banks for some of their capital investments, and all local self-government units have a need for some capital investments, whether it's a street, a road of municipal importance, a rural road, a waterway, a sewerage, heating. Why not say something about environmental protection, where the local self-government unit is competent? Since there is no funding for development in the budgets of local self-government units, there is no public enterprise of general importance, there is no possibility of providing funds, there is the possibility of a major abuse from the NIP, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, because the NIP can also invest in regional and local infrastructure, so Mrs Kalanovic, as she once did for her village, will wait for the municipalities where G17 plus is in power, and these others will wait. That's why there's this NIP and it's from the point of view of the capital investment budget and it's supposed to be with you at the ministry. But no. G17 should be home, because apparently when the division of ministries was carried out, there was also one criterion - the proportion of strength, but also when the budget was divided into ministries, it must be proportionate and respected. The fact that you are denied, where it is nominally yours, since you run capital investments, for one part of the coalition's cake according to the coalition agreement. Do you know what it's like in feudalism? You know the difference. You know where it starts and where it ends. It doesn't matter how justified it is. The danger of this law is that there is an increase in the limit, i.e. the limitation that so far existed in the units of local self-government, which is reportedly another criterion, but this text shows the country's determination to stimulate units of local self-government, to literally be said for all capital investments, if the funds are missing, credited to a business bank. There's a completely different interest rate, you have to know, so there's a possibility that there's some grace period, and they've tried to define it by this bill, making sure that it's still a system, but regardless of what this looks like to some system, this is dangerous, because if you have one deplorable president of the municipality, who thinks that this municipality before him didn't exist and that it's supposed to be everything, or that you have a president of a municipality who tried to kill himself twice, so he didn't succeed when he came in the third time for the president of the municipality, the graphite of the building says - third happiness. He found water in the meadow from Vranjska Banja, the Banja Break, the Banja of Kursumli, and found man and oil. Not to tell you what he found. That's what you ask around, I don't want a name and a last name. It's a very interesting phenomenon on the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34372	The time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34373	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard what the theory sometimes says. However, doctrine and practice differ very often in Serbia. For the first time, I heard that the country road is a capital investment. I don't know if Mr. Mrkonjic heard about it or maybe he's studying at some colleges and schools. I know, Mr. Mrkonjic, if it hadn't been for you and the Capital Investment Fund and those funds that the state of Serbia was helping local self-government, the town of Kruševac from which I came, and unfortunately one moment a political experiment was conducted by a political party, very failed, would never have managed to do any capital projects, but really capital projects. Just thanks to that fund and that credit debt, we did it. However, it seems to me that Mr Krasic had just described the situation quite well in several cities where the SRS was in power. Here's what it looks like in the town of Krusevec, from which I come -- at the time of the political experiment in the town of Krusevec, when the SRS, among other things, was in power, remained a debt in the 180 million dinar budget and we subsequently found that it was 10 million dinars. The city's heat, which she also ran, and I'm undermining -- the owner of the SRS, was in charge of 80 million dinars on the threshold of winter. We've run out of energy and no means to keep the city warm. What are we supposed to do now? Shouldn't we be in charge of the city? Shouldn't we make a decision like this? That citizens are frozen because someone was conducting a political experiment? Of course, local self-government has the right to be in charge and, unfortunately, these debts sometimes serve to repay the debts of such political experiments and expeditions. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, there's an oak tree at the entrance to the town of Kruševac, a log, it's 350 years old, if my human life was that big, if a man lived that long, I might even allow someone three or four years old to try and do some experiment, because what are four years versus 350 years? But the good Lord God has given me a biological restriction, as well as all men and I live as long as the human century is and for that reason I cannot leave a single year of my life to someone for political experiments. So I think it's a good thing that local self-governments have the right to be in charge, to have the right to invest, to improve the quality of citizens, and you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, on behalf of the citizens of Kruševec, thank you for finishing that bypass you promised, because, as I was told, it should be completed by December 29th, despite the unfavourable weather conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34374	Two minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34375	I just want to explain something. As it stands in this law – a debt for capital investment expenditure, and as regards local self-government, I will take the territory of the municipality of Prokuplje as an example. All those villages that don't have an asphalt road, if the village road is paved and the bus starts coming, for them it's real capital investments. That's how they lead, both in budgetary accounting and in economic classifications, as expenses for those purposes, so I haven't made a mistake, but I've narrowed it down to that reasonable measure when it comes to the local self-government unit. It's not a problem with this bill of borrowing. The borrowing has already been defined by this law. The problem is that a much bigger space opens up here and gives one bad message to local self-government units that there is no need to fight for their own accumulation in the financial year, the financial year. They don't need to take care of public enterprises and others, if I may say so, institutions and funds affecting expenditure. It's just enough to be in charge. It is, Mr. Mrkonjic, like that time 20 and a few years ago, when those bonds were given with the bank average, so the successful banking directors were the only ones who were able to drink a liter of wine and go to the basic bank and pick up the average bills, which was a condition for paying the salary. There was nothing else to worry about. It was such a conducting economy, etc. That took revenge on us later. I'm getting the impression that we're going to this far-reaching power. There is no doubt that there is a need in every unit of local self-government, because we are stopped in development, if I may say so, in both ongoing maintenance and development. But if such great boundaries are given, great limits, even harmful consequences may arise. That's what this is about. This public debt administration, when it is formed, while it looks at it, and you know the situation itself, say, on the territory of Vojvodina, where, say, Pajtic over some of his funds skipped municipalities and went directly to local communities. That's what this is about. And these long-term duties also allow for quite a lot of elections. And he should be aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34376	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34377	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the subject of public debt is not simple at all and it is not naive and any amendments to the Law on Public Debt require one, I would say, a more serious analysis because, according to the Serbian Progressive Party's assessment, society and economy are over-indebted, and even citizens, it seems to us, although not in so much debt as they are in some other perhaps transition countries. It is necessary for citizens, first of all, to know that we have a very serious public debt growth, on a daily basis, that compared to the previous year, I think that public debt growth is by some 600m euros, meaning in the previous year, that we have serious responsibilities in terms of economy and that the debts of our economy, I mean private economy, are increasing regardless of what is externally due. It is due to domestic banks and we have a situation that we will vote on Monday in the budget, when it comes to guarantees, with about 130 billion dinars as far as it was in the previous budget, this time we raised the guarantees to about 210 billion. It is obvious that our country, our economy, our society, is in debt from day to day and that we are, without a doubt, one debt economy. These amendments to the law should also allow local self-governments to increase the level of borrowing. It seems to us, from the Serbian Progressive Party, that the state, that official statistics, first of all, are very unserious towards the debt, that citizens do not properly inform themselves about the state of public debt, that the most often comes from GDP, which, on the other hand, is calculated in a suspicious way, mainly related to dollar amounts, that we have the condition that in the previous six-seven years inflation is more than 300%, and that the USD course is in fact unchanged and that the impression of a very large appraisal of the dinar, in which we may also be the leading country in the world, rather than in Europe. When real GDP is seen, relative to real growth in purchasing power, we can really come up with some much more realistic data that indicate that our debt is not so naive at all, that it has one policy of course that is long-term sustainable and that for our economy can be devastating in some future period. Therefore, we should be much more concerned about the economy, so much more than these duties should be directly invested in production. I would also remind this opportunity to have a decline in production, officially, and we often suspect official statistics, because it can be and how party-colored. So, about 15%, we have a serious downturn when it comes to the processing industry. We have a clear suspicion that in the next period things will go better. It is necessary for the government to devote a lot more bills to the economy in the future, to be less in debt as much as possible, because by borrowing in fact we eat some substance that belongs to our children. In this way, with this policy of limitless borrowing, the sale of those resources that we inherited, we come without a doubt to the situation that these debts will be paid back by our children in a very ugly way. By having to send them, what my Jagodinians would say, in profit, is that through foreign exchange records we return these debts, not through some finished products that should be in Serbia. Today, unfortunately, in Serbia, we have nothing to export. We export corn, iron, depending on secondary raw materials collected in Serbia. It's two of our biggest export products and it's really, I'd say, a shame and an unserious increase in borrowing at any level of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34378	Two minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? (No) I conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on OSERVANJ (specificity) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Bozidar Delić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antić and Milovan Radovanović. You received reports from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three lines of amendments to the Insurance Act. What does it matter, because of citizens who, on the night before glory, have the opportunity to observe this transmission? It is that the 2009 deadline in the previous law, which is Article 234, was changed on 31 December 2011, and it is about the obligation to distinguish life insurance and non-life insurance. We are against this and our proposal to amend it, and given indeed some illogical explanation of these amendments and the addition of this insurance law, we moved to 2010 and for the reason that, in fact, even in the explanation here, the arguments you have given regarding these amendments and additions do not stand for such a finding. We must remind you that the state, or the Republic of Serbia, will, on December 22nd of the current year or June of next year, happily, submit all the necessary documentation for accession, or for EU candidacy. These are the deadlines in force in the EU, and in matters of separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, we must remind ourselves that we are obliged to comply with the legislation of our laws with EU legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34380	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34381	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am pleased whenever someone in Serbia wants to accept the specifics and the determination that Serbia is going the way of the EU. This road, the road to the EU, is certainly also routed by certain laws, and every law we make is a certain step on the road to the EU. On the other hand, a declarative push to join the EU and criticise all those laws that are passed with recommendation and agreement with all relevant institutions that facilitate the path to the EU does not mean that this declarative commitment does indeed constitute an essential commitment to EU accession. The DS and the ZES coalition are very careful to analyse all the laws that enter the assembly procedure here, all amendments and I absolutely think that each law represents another step towards the EU and this difficult painful pathway, and I think it is good that all these laws that enter the assembly procedure, especially amendments, are carefully looked at and looked at whether they are really a relief or a shortcut on the way to the EU. I am absolutely confident and I share the conviction of all MEPs that we are practically all the laws we are making, we are making this faster, easier EU accession. You can find confirmation of these words tomorrow in St. Nicholas, protectors of passengers and sailors, because on that day, in St. Nicholas, the citizens of Serbia will be able to go to Europe for the first time in 19 years without a shameful restriction called the visa regime. Many in this sitting room, and especially my younger colleagues, have not had the opportunity to enjoy the grace provided by the passport, which unmistakably knocks down all obstacles and opens all branches, according to one song by Gjorge Balasevic. I think it is the best confirmation with the approval of the trade agreement, and on the other hand, I think it is another signal, that Serbian citizens have full confidence in the DS and the ZES coalition. I think we're going to continue to support all these laws and we're getting good amendments to those laws, but it's good that these amendments make it easier for us, and they don't make it difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34382	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude the examination of the draft law amending the insurance law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Delegation of the Republic of Serbia by Eurobank EFG A.D. BEOGRAD (individualities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Colić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The amendment will be declared by the National Assembly because the Legislative Committee's report is missing. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34383	I won't take much of your time. It would simply not be good to continue this practice, if once the amendment had already been adopted, as in previous debt with the Alpha Bank, as one of the banks, where all the conditions for obtaining credit and where the amendment was adopted, were to be provided to the Assembly within 30 days of the date of signing the contract, in order to be informed, such a contract would be delivered to the Assembly. We've already received it under this previous law and there's no need for it not to be such a provision in the next line of duty, but for us to act in amendment and especially that the argument contains, for example, that part of the interest that I've defined with the amendment and that there's no content of the law. So, we would avoid the possibility of submitting amendments if the government were to write these bill proposals properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-18-0.u34384	Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Krasic is registered in the electronic system, but you do not have time available, nor as an authorised representative. The time of the parliamentary group and the time of the authorised representative has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details and general, by asking the Assembly's service that part of the presentation of Jorganka Tabaković, as a note, be delivered to the promoter. The part concerning the second time of the amendment submitted, which the Government, or the Proposer, accepts another time in a row, to save time for each other and to establish the form of such an amendment in each future contract. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, December 21st, 2009, starting at 11.00pm as the day for voting on agenda items of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I thank all the participants in the session. Tomorrow December 19th is a multiple celebration of Serbia, the population of Serbia, and wishing you the first day without visas, the first day without burden on how we will travel, and the glory of St. Nichol to those who celebrate and to those who go to glory, thank you.
