ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended: Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic, President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Public Information, and Mr. Zoran Tamas, member of the DRI Council. I welcome them, and I want them to be a successful work for us today and that they, of course, help us. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Wednesday, 21 January 2009, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in this agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called upon by the request of 221 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, 2. Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Commissioner for Public Information Act, which was submitted by the Administrative Committee. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE BUSINESS OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY REVISION INSTITUTIONS Ms. Verica Radeta advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This morning, the First Public Service Log was hosted by the Secretary of State for KIM. What the gentleman, as the guest of that diary, said, seems to be very disturbing. It refers to the formation of the security forces of the fake state of Kosovo. The point is that the Secretary of State has actually said what we MPs of the SRS have been saying months ago, which is that the state, the state authorities, the president of the state have done nothing, or at least haven't done enough, to keep KIM from applying Ahtisaari's plan. Because what's going on at KiM right now is the application of Ahtisaari's plan. Besides, that's what Vuk Jeremic, the foreign minister, told the media. We now hear the president of the state react by sending someone a letter. We're afraid that's not enough. We ask for the president of the state to come to this parliament, both the foreign minister and the KIM minister. We insist that MPs discuss it, to find out what it is that the state authorities have prepared for it not to happen, not to be surprised, and it is obvious that these security forces are in fact an army of the false state of Kosovo. That's what the commander of the unit said this morning (or what it's called) and the secretary of state says -- it will be very difficult for Serbia to deal with the fact. It's obvious, he says, that's something we have to face. That's what we're talking about. We need to be ready, we need to know what the state is planning to do, not every time something terrible happens, that a state official shows up, shrugs his shoulders and says, "What do we do, we'll see, we'll write someone a letter." So it's unserious and irresponsible by, above all, the president of Serbia. We insist that he come here, with a proposal, and he and everyone in charge of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can determine... When the motion for a resolution related to KIM submitted by the MPs of the SRS, the DSS and New Serbia, you did not accept it on the agenda. I'm not going to argue that, if we were then. ) here I am finishing up, discussing it and making certain conclusions, the situation was different, but you can't claim not to either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12803	The contents of everything you said will be forwarded to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a communication that is businessly possible, and otherwise, procedurally, we can't call the president of the state the way you suggested. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12804	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard Mrs. Radet and, of course, we've received an answer - will be forwarded to the Government. This is a very important question. I can't understand that we in the Serbian Parliament can't finally discuss Kosovo. I can't even understand the right side, the opposition, the ruling coalition, I don't understand, I don't understand the MPs from Kosovo, I don't understand anyone. You all mic by mic, go Kosovo, people! What are you guys talking about here? Should we now listen to Mr. Shabic, tell us about his problems, and we have a topic very important to this country? He's got a president coming. There is no work of parliament until it comes here to report to Serbia. What's this all about? Is the Ahtisaari plan in place or not? Please, he's going to explain to us, he said he wouldn't apply. Let Wolf Jeremic explain what's going on. What is this foreign policy he's been running? Gentlemen, the Shiptari are making an army, regular. We're legitimizing it a little bit. You're hoping for a white Schengen list. You know you have to admit the state line to get the white Schengen list. Don't go under the grain again. How is it possible that the Serbian parliament is not discussing such an important issue? The Serbs are scared. Kosovo has led its army of Kosovo's largest terrorists, and you are calmly observing it. I call on Kosovo MPs in the ruling coalition - come in! What's this about? How are you not ashamed to go back down to that people? Sit here as aunts and vote for everything you're offered. What does that look like? Please, Mrs. Nado Kolundjia, I am a People's MP who represents one of his own endings and asks for explanations. Enough of your demagogy! (President: Mr. Ilic, please adjust the contents of your speech. What's this all about? What do you want? Should we now discuss some of the EU's laws? Which EU? The one who took away a piece of your territory, and you're calmly observing and you're legitimateizing it all. Of course, pretend like nothing's going on. It's nice to have you here, tucked in, voted. You see, you have street fights in Sandzak, ma'am. Your ministers are at war. At least equip them, it's a shame they're fighting in suits and ties. Did you get the Sanjay newspaper here? Are you following the situation in the country? (President: Time. You have people here who do the same in Vojvodina. What's this about? What about Serbia? Mr. Ilic, it's been three minutes. Please bring the end. Gentlemen, I'm warning you, get serious. It's true that time is up, but it's gone for all of us, the way we're acting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12805	Gentlemen, please compare the content and tonality of the address to the Assembly to this home. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12806	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting as an MP for the SRS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I'm using law by art. 225 and 226. My rules of procedure are to ask the competent state authorities for information on how they will react, although I know they will not respond, due to new circumstances. All of the world's agencies and domestic media have reported from The Hague tribunal that the UN tribunal's prosecution has initiated proceedings against the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, over alleged contempt of the court. I must, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, tell you that this is now happening in a situation where the process, namely the prosecution of our president, is entering the finale, but as you can see, and many of you, like our citizens, have asked me yesterday and today why there is no further trial. Obviously, this is a new game of The Hague prosecution, due to the fact that, in the past performance of more than 40 witnesses of the prosecution, Prof. Vojislav Seselj killed all allegations of false accusations by the Dossu regime, along with Karl del Ponte, Natasa Kandic and other servants of The Hague tribunal wrote against him six years ago. You must imagine the fact, given that your mentors, above all Olli Rehn and Javier Solana, as well as their representatives here are constantly conditioning that you continue to meet the conditions of that court, which was founded only to be tried by Serbs, that it is obvious now, since it is obvious to the entire domestic and world public, that the court, and the prosecution itself, is at a stalemate and therefore invents that Professor Vojislav Seselj, by the rules that apply in that court, which have been changed backwards, only since he has there, at least 15 times, violated one of these rules and revealed the names of some protected witnesses. That, first of all, is not true at all. It's a book I mentioned to you more than a month ago, and recently it's in Kragujevac, in a crowded hall of Theatra "Joakim Vujic", and it's been held and promoted by the book, "Crestina Dal's Osserrupt Hague Turkey", and it's about judicially certified witness statements. It's not funny, unfortunately, but it's sad that you're laughing, and it's one of the prosecutors of the anti-Serbian tribunal, Kristina Dahl, the pressure on these people, the members of their families, their wives, their children. She tried and tried for years to persuade them, to blackmail them, to pay them off, they held them in prison at 11 Jevrem Grujic Street (President: Time). ) for a few days, in the worst possible conditions, threatened to end up here or there. They agreed to be witnesses, but were turned into witnesses to the defense of Dr. Vojislav Seselj. So, all that happened yesterday and his alleged contempt of the court is a pure lie and fiction because, like Mr. Ljubisha Petkovic, who, in justice, has served four months in The Hague casamat (President: Would you bring the end, please? ) Mr. Aleksandr Stefanovic, Jovan Glamocan, all these honorable men and honorable Serbs have agreed to testify to the truth, and the truth is that Dr. Vojislav Seselj is a Serbian hero and a hero and will win The Hague case, which I am convinced of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12807	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as head of the parliamentary group, has the advantage, and then Mr. Sormaz and Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Ms. Slavica, I think you should have warned some MPs who are laughing at the information that some MPs have provided. You still need to take care of some elemental things. There are our citizens who are accused before The Hague tribunal and until their guilt is proved, like anywhere else in the world, the rule should also apply to them that they are innocent until that guilt is proved. A few days ago, I gave you information on the crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija, and it was terrible crimes. These crimes were all found, perpetrators were found, but those who discovered the crimes on behalf of the international community were simply stopped to move on because they were told that the Hague tribunal was breaking up in 2010 and there was no need to deal with it at all. As far as the UN tribunal is concerned, it is not even founded for the rest, but only for the Serbs. When established, it is very precise that 80% of convicted Serbs should be, that and the time sentences, of the total penalties imposed by the tribunal, should be so much. Fifteen percent should be Croats and 5% Muslims, and Shyptari should be completely exempt from it. Do you find it funny that Ramush Haradinaj was released? Did any of you protest that, ask our government, our institutions, to ask that question? You are laughing because we defend the right of Vojislav Seselj to defend himself before The Hague tribunal. We defend his right, since he proved how many of you there are here who regularly follow that trial. Have someone come out and say that in the performance of evidence and witnesses, one single fact has been confirmed. She's not the only one. What else do they have left? They're left to kill him in a way that's only possible, to impose a lawyer on him, and now they're pressing charges against him for contempt of the court. Is there somewhere in the world, my people? The defendant defends himself before the court in a way that he thinks is best for him. Whether he is or not, he will judge the court. Where is it in the world that the defendant, because he defends himself, accuses himself of contempt? That's funny to you. Do you at least have an elementary view of certain things? The fact that you disagree (President: Time). ) with the policy of the SRS and the policy of Vojislav Seselj, leave aside, but there are fundamental human rights and freedoms at stake here. That's what you don't care. You think it's funny. Then when the Italian general and this Peruvian forensics officer presented this data for KIM, then our special prosecutor braved the courage to press charges for human organs trafficking. Where were you until then? What were you doing? (President: Will you bring the end, please? I'm done. It's funny to you, too. You thought it was funny when we brought it up. I remember when that massacre took place in the village of Staro Gracko, when 14 Serbs were killed, that's when we brought out the data to trade with the organs of the killed Serbs, but you laughed back then. And now here comes the confirmation that this was really happening. I apologize for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12809	Mr. Todorovic, you are asking me to take care of the dignity of the Assembly and the order in the Assembly, but please, and the heads of the parliamentary groups and all MPs, to help me with this. On the one hand, laughter, of course, is not appropriate when any apostle speaks to the congregation, and on the other hand, it is not appropriate to hit his feet when the messengers speak. Therefore, I really ask you to help me and to work together to raise the level of dignity of the Assembly. The word is from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12810	Madam President, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, let me continue what Mr. Todorovic was talking about. I think that anyone who had just laughed at the title of the book, which was obviously a reason for Professor Vojislav Seselj to initiate such a procedure in The Hague tribunal, not only is it not funny, but I must remind you, in addition to these examples that he has brought forth, which are murderers and murderers of Serbian children and those who have done unequivocally to our people, and on the other hand, innocent people are killed in the Hague cabinet. Finally and at the beginning, it should be clear to you, because you are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that there was a beastly and martyrly murder, which Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic knows very well, as well as the entire world public and anyone who wants to see what kind of court it is, and former Serbian and SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic. These are simple fictions, and now the UN tribunal, or prosecution, has found itself in a situation where it no longer knows what to do, as it does not know back six years, what to do with Dr Vojislav Seselj, so it has not started the process for four years, so it has to strike hunger to the edge and almost the end of its life, and the judge who has been extremely anti-Serbian in that process, when he has been strikening hunger, and when he was a pre-quisite judge, a certain Carmel Agius, has been appointed here as one of the three in this new council, who is allegedly going to be tried for contempt of the court. So, you saw that the chairman of this council, who is being tried by Mr. Seselj, our president, Judge Antoinetti, could see, just like you, who is following the trial night after night, and the citizens of Serbia, that not only those whose names he allegedly revealed, which is not true at all, because these are people who have been post-festum themselves, after a promotion of an earlier book by our president and one of the gatherings we held, reported and said that for years they have been persecuted by the Hague manifest, that they do not want to be witnesses of the prosecution and that they are voluntarily making themselves available to the defence team of Dr. Vojislav Seselya, to be court-confirmed and stand behind every word of their own. It is not only those who appear for the first time in the process against Dr Vojislav Seselj, but also the people that The Hague was chasing and in the trial against Slobodan Milosevic, you could see for yourself, that some of them appeared during the last days of the trial, while there were. What did they say? What did all those the D.A.'s office have to say to show up there? That they refuse to accuse an innocent man with detestation, which is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and that they reject all that is put on him and that they are telling the truth, and the truth is one. The indictment was filed on the order of Zoran Djindjic, Karla del Ponte, Natasha Kandic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and other anti-Serbs, and, as Carla del Ponte published in her book, with the intention of taking Vojislav Seselj away and never coming back. Make sure he lasts it all. He is a man who knows and what kind of trickery these are, and how it is now constructed, and for which reason in the remaining 15 or 18 hours, when he brilliantly performs all the evidence in the process when these witnesses appear (President: Natasha, please bring the end. ) Be assured that his party, while appealing to the international public, will do everything possible to protect his rights and not use such inventions against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12811	Mr. Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12812	I'm reporting from Article 104. I could do it for a second. 225 and 226, although I don't know who to look for information from. It's clear to me, but it doesn't seem clear to them. In fact, they should be informed by the executive authority in Serbia about what is happening at KIM. I see no reason why MP Velimir Ilic was warned of what he was saying and the way he spoke. I don't see what was at all controversial in his speech, I don't think a single word was offensive. If someone doesn't like it, what was they supposed to do here, throw flowers in front of the MP's majority, give you roses, tulips, so you'd better warn what he said, and what's the fact that it's happening on Kim? I said from this assembly paytable that you will pay the price, as the majority of the assembly, what you are doing in Kosovo and that you can use your propaganda and marketing to deceive citizens until those things begin to happen in favour of EULEX and KFOR, or in other words, EULEX and NATO, or the EU and the United States, help create a false independent state of Kosovo. And you, by accepting Eulex and all you've done, are also participants in the whole process. We told you from here, and I told you more than once that the first verdict of one of Ahtisaari's Eulex judges from e.g. Sweden, Finland, which follows the laws adopted by the Kosovo Assembly to be proof that you have betrayed Serbia and that you have betrayed Kosovo. And here, the creation of an independent false state of Kosovo began. First, through the Kosovo army, it should not be called otherwise, it is the army of Kosovo. I'm telling you now, by the summer, all the courts, all the prosecutions, will do as Ahtisaari's plan predicted, whatever you say and whatever you smile. On the other hand, the police (well, here comes your colleague's smile next to you), customs will be set up and there will be a customs station. (President: Time. ) EULEX customs will do what the Kosovo Assembly adopts. This will all happen and you will be responsible. I don't care about Barack Obama, NATO, KFOR, Brussels. You'll be responsible and we'll be chasing you around Serbia because... That's right, Mr. Micunovic, the one who betrays Serbia will be chased, and you have betrayed Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12813	Mr. Shormaz, talk longer. Gentlemen, I remind you that 221 MPs have signed and expressed their desire to discuss today very concrete and very important topics for this country, namely, to practically complete a form that would allow for the exercise of extremely significant functions in this country. I'd really like to ask you to come back to the agenda. There are others registered by the Rules of Procedure, of course I will give everyone my word, but I do ask you to behave today in accordance with the proposal that we have made ourselves, and for the benefit of the work of the Assembly. Mr. Markicevic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12814	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, the first thing that occurred to me to say here is that from these last sentences that you said, it turns out that my predecessors, including the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic, were saying something that you think might not be important to the citizens of Serbia. I'm calling in an article. 225th and 226th, and I ask who knows what kind of question in the last few months, but I don't get an answer from the competent ministries and ministers, as I believe I won't get one on this one either, but you, as president of the Assembly, are not responding. You should call ministers and ministries who do not refer to parliamentary questions. I am referring my parliamentary question to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. The introduction to my question is this. What is happening right now in KIM, dear gentlemen, brothers and sisters, if you think it's only about the safety of the Serbs living on KIM, then you're wrong. The security of all citizens of Serbia has been compromised, especially those who live nearer. The administrative border on Merdar. And those of us who are younger and those who are older have seen a map of the great Albania for once in our lives. If you think the border of this imagined great Albania is on Merdar, then you're wrong. She's much deeper in Serbia. What kind of situation do we live in when it is realized, unfortunately, with the approval of Serbia's state summit, Ahtisaari's plan? Ahtisaari's plan is only part of an even bigger plan, to create a great Albania. Just a few days ago, in our media, in our press, we had statements from yesterday's chief of staff of Serbia's General Staff, Mr. Ponos, who says the Serbian Army has no defence strategy. We haven't heard from the Secretary of Defense to come forward, say yes, we have a strategy of defense, at least we will defend this administrative border. On television footage we saw yesterday and yesterday, when it was formed so-called. Security forces, i.e. the army of the false state of Kosovo, we see that this is not just about light weapons. Who understands a little bit, and I know there are people here who understand military weapons and weapons, see some American-made combat vehicles over there. (President: Time. ) Should anyone, Madam President, and so should you, if you tolerate such ministers as Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who is not advertised, tell Serbian citizens, children of Serbia, can they sleep peacefully? I am convinced that separatists and terrorists leading the army in Kosovo will not stop at the Merdar border. So, I ask the defence minister's response, from the head of state, to go immediately to the citizens of Serbia and say what a security situation is. Is this a danger to all citizens of Serbia, because of what is currently happening at KIM? (President: Will you bring the end, please? There's one more thing to tell you, Madam President. All that is happening behind the pay phone is because the media is closed up by someone who ruled Slobodan Milosevic and because of avoiding the topic of topics, which is KIM, which is not put here on the agenda, so let's see who's right and what to do with both Serbs and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12815	I would just like to tell you that all the questions that MPs are launching are important, but on the agenda today's sessions are not parliamentary issues. Although, of course, I will also forward your findings and the question to the government and the competent ministry. The word is, first, Ms. Verica Radeta, and then Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12816	I'm reporting again on the basis of Article 226. Madam President of the National Assembly, I think we're talking about very serious issues. One part of the joke is all this unserious and laughing at it, it only creates the need for the opposition MPs to explain things to them once more. When it comes to these so-called. Security forces or what they call them in the fake republic of Kosovo, that is, in the territory of Serbia, in KIM, I will read a sentence, a quote. Boris Tadic, on a show two days ago, asked whether it would form in the territory of the KIM unit, said this way: "We have otherwise proposed the demilitarisation of KIM, as the only way for Kosovo to be introduced as one community in civilian form." So he's already talking about Kosovo. "Serbia does not accept and will not recognise the state of Kosovo, but it is one region of Serbia. A region on the ground of Europe", a very interesting finding by the president of the state, "in which only demilitarisation can provide security for people living on KIM. We must protect their lives. "Then he says, very interestingly, "will they be formed today? I must say that these forces do not endanger Serbia's security, because it is 2,500 easily armed members of the security forces, which are not even called the military." Can the president of Serbia talk like this about the part of the country whose president he is? He can't. And this is the reason, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, which is why we are talking about this today and why we insist that the president of the state comes before the MPs to talk about this matter, to ask him what he meant when he said about these security forces that it is 2,500 easily armed members of the security forces (God, they say, do not even call the army. ..and who they're threatening there. This policy puts Serbia at risk by Boris Tadic. This policy and attitudes of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija threatens Boris Tadic. That is why we insist that the National Assembly discuss it and that Boris Tadic address parliament. Mrs Dejanovic, (President: Time. I'm finishing up, I'm sorry, you said earlier that you couldn't call him like that, but you know both the business opportunity and his constitutional obligation – he needs to come here to talk about whether and why he accepted this situation in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12817	The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12818	Dear President Djukic - Dejanovic, I would only ask you not to look at me for exactly three minutes, because my presentation may take up to five minutes, so I do not hear from you again. Mr. Micunovicu, this is an overall piece of information that is extremely important. I'd like to ask the president. If you don't allow me, I will call again, but I would just like to meet the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, to meet the Government of the Republic of Serbia, yes, of course, and to ask some questions, and to get to know the Serbian public at all about how the UN tribunal works. Since the international court was formed, of course, an illegal, ad hoc, the UN tribunal's prosecution has written a total of 161 indictments. Today we have all the evidence that this is not only political, but also the court of selective justice. If this claim were correct, it would show you the following parameters. A case was conducted before the court and two Macedonian nationalities were indicted. As for crimes against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the tribunal in three separate cases brought seven indictments against six members of the Cypriot infamous KLA paramilitary formation. In two cases, with six indictees, the tribunal freed two persons. Haradinaj, who was also released by a first-degree verdict, is facing the complaint's bigger case. Of the seven indictees and the fifth war criminal Rahim Ademi, he was released by a decision by the County Court in Zagreb, in a case which was dismissed by The Hague tribunal. For all crimes against Serbs, their suffering and horrors in Kosovo and Metohija, only one person, with 13 years in prison, has been convicted. As for the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the International Court in The Hague has accused nine people, the Serbs of Muslim religion, in five cases. The appeal council reached a second-degree verdict for seven indictees, while only one more case lies ahead of the Court of Appeal, which is the case of Rasim Delic, who was sentenced to three years in prison in the first degree. The acquittal received three indictees: Naser Oric, Zejli Delalic and Sefer Halilovic. The total sentence, 38-and-a-half years in prison, received four indicted Muslims. Now let us also get to know the UN tribunal's decisions towards our brothers to the Serbs of the Catholic religion. The Hague tribunal led or conducted proceedings against 27 indictees. One case, with two indictees, was handed down to the Croatian judiciary. It's a subject of Rahim Ademi and Mirko Norac. Two cases, with nine indictees, are at the stage of carrying out evidence of charges or defence. The Hague tribunal has reached 20 judicial verdicts, Croatia two. The prison sentence, of a total of 199 years, was sentenced to 15 (President: Time. While the guilt was freed... (President: Mr. Petkovic, you've been talking for a minute longer than predicted by the Rules of Procedure. All right, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12819	You know what, we really have another session today. I understand your need and you've drawn attention to something that is your position, but I would really ask you to allow us to work on the agenda today. Thank you. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, followed by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12820	Dear Presidents, colleagues, here we are today, for who knows which time, every month, month and a half, in this final phase of taking Kosovo from the state of Serbia, we are talking, and indeed with great efforts of the opposition, since the position does not want to hold any sessions where we would discuss it thoroughly, and not to revive the work of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. What is currently happening in Kosovo, many are ignoring and using the formulas that have been planted on us by NATO and those chefs from the secret cuisine represented by Mr Ahtisaari. We have the literal formation of the Kosovo army that came out of the KLA terrorist organisation, and those KLAs were even on the list of terrorist organisations, and those on the US lists, which are, by the way, its financiers, inventors and those who train them. In addition to forming this new army, an elite unit, which is the Kosovo Guard, was first formed. Whoever was watching the footage could see on the sleeves that it was the guard of Kosovo. What does the guard mean? It's an elite unit. Who is it made up of, and is it becoming a more serious security problem not only in Kosovo and Serbia, but across the Balkans? It's just those fighters who survived the attacks on Koshare, those of their fighters who survived the Eunice Mountains, who survived the Junik, the Juni stream, those who slaughtered, burned people in the cretins and various streams, that their trail was never found, those who organized the extraction of organs to the captured people. These are the elite fighters who today make up the guard of Kosovo, which is an elite unit of the Kosovo army that is forming under NATO's patronage. Do you think there'll be only that thousand and a half, 2,500 and 800 in the reserve, as they say? No, I don't. There'll be tens of thousands of them, and we don't see our country doing anything about it to protect us. We have reports from the media that certain terrorist actions will occur in the country of Serbia, even in some media a month ago, said terrorist actions or assassinations will be carried out against some political figures here in the country of Serbia, or more visible people. We didn't get one moment on the Security Committee or here in the Assembly, because you're making it impossible for us to get to that session, information about what's going on in that field. Whenever someone comes out and starts that topic, and we don't run it because we're moving it, but because it dictates the situation on the ground, because scared people call it, and those people who live in camps for the last nine or ten years, who live surrounded by barbed wire, who don't know what the word freedom means. Whenever we want to start that topic, you won't let us. Even some people laugh at our attempts to initiate this story. I'm really surprised, and I can't believe they do, too. I'm done, I'm grateful, I'm sorry for overstepping, who have any morals and any humanity can afford to talk about it at least if they're not able to do something more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12821	Respecting the initiatives of a large number of MPs, I am making a suggestion to the Vice-President, because the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has not yet chosen to call the Committee session, to call on the Minister and act in accordance with the business opportunities of this Assembly - it seems to me that this is the most constructive - and, of course, inform the Assembly. Mrs. Jankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12822	I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the question is about the agenda that was proposed. Today, there is a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. What I'm interested in is... (President: I'm sorry, we don't know if it'll be today. Not today? Okay, but that's the first thing we'll discuss. Since Kosovo cannot be discussed here under various circumstances and whenever Kosovo is mentioned, there are some interruptions and delays, what my question is and what I ask for information is – since NATO is known to equip this new army of Kosovo headed by a witness terrorist, is it even moral for our assembly to send a delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly? So here is a proposal for a parliamentary delegation to represent us, to represent Serbia in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I totally understand the need for journals. Almost on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, I saw how many representatives of these interest groups from the ruling coalition hurt when they are presented with travel costs, God forbid they pay for something themselves. So I totally understand that there is an interest in the journals, but it wouldn't be bad enough to show a little interest in the state, because I think it's hard to explain to our citizens that it's morally, even normally, that we're helping NATO make its own country in our territory. So, for those who are an accomplice to the United States and the EU in achieving and officialing the so-called "U.S." Kosovo has no alternative, and for the rest of the people, who keep calling and answering us, and for us from New Serbia, who are their representatives, only Serbia as a comprehensive state has no alternative. In addition, Madam President, it is absolutely amazing for me that a person in the role of president, a man known as "the beautiful Bora," has time to get everywhere. We see he was at the National Infrastructure Council yesterday. That this is a kind of conflict of interest, it is not even to be talked about, because the president of the state, and the prime minister, in fact, is also the president of the National Council for Infrastructure. He has time to stop in both Jagodin and whom, if he needs to hear a singer who is currently in trend, but it seems that time does not just exist for this assembly. So I think that, using your authority and your psychotherapy skills, and since it's someone who's been a colleague for some time, you might be able to influence the 'nice Bora' to honor this National Assembly of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12823	The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12824	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, understand the need to work in the agenda, but unfortunately, the events are constantly catching up. And when they are such as to demand the attention of the MPs, which means the citizens of Serbia, then we simply cannot escape from that topic. I'll remind you what's happening to us, but not by chance, believe me, because those who create a new world order, those who have interests in what's really happening to us, are doing very planned and very synchronised. So, at the same time, they impose on us some proposal of the Duke's statutes. Now we see that the ruling majority is already one way away from that statute. So first, there are the same political parties that adopt it and propose it to the National Assembly, and now here we see that we are not ready to put it on the agenda, and we know what the statute offers us. Then we have a question for Eulex. We warned here what he meant, that it was a return to Ahtisaari's plan, and we asked, at least, the opposition political parties, not to accept Eulex. We didn't have to accept it. The UN Security Council Secretary-General's statement is not something that is binding on our country. That's how the President of the Republic understood it, that's how Vuk Jeremic understood it, and they came to terms with it as if it were a final act. We were saying what it could bring in the future and, look, it's happening to us. Kosovo security forces, and we know who is at the helm of these forces, are commanded by the KLA military leader, Kosovo Protection Corps leader Suleiman Selimi Sultan. The Germans provide them with vehicles, the Americans give them money for uniforms, they're trained by British officers. And it is no wonder that we are concerned not only about the security of Serbs in Kosovo, but about the security of the entire country and every citizen of Serbia. Hence the need for MPs to deal with this problem. It would be ideal for someone in the Serbian government to understand, that at least the foreign minister came today, to address the National Assembly first, that a press release was issued. It's not enough for us to just read the headlines in the paper and say -- Tadic sent a protest to NATO. What's in it for us? What do we have from that protest? What's the consequence of that protest? What is our diplomatic activity? We've spoken more than once -- don't do what you do in diplomacy to declare some great diplomatic success, because only you see it as a success, we're actually constantly embellished. I ask you, how long are we going to let them pull us by the nose, scratch us for events, further break up our country, and live worse and worse? Everything is connected, believe me, politics, economics, international relations, everything that happens in The Hague... (President: Time. Here, I'm done, thank you for your warning. And what is happening in The Hague tribunal about Vojislav Seselj is also linked to the internal political situation, the illegality and the illegality of this parliament in one part, all in one package. It's just that we'd have to look at it a little bit wider, not just a matter of partiality, because then, believe me, we can't get to any success. We need smart heads now, we need unity on some of the most important state issues, and I don't know who can provide it, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12825	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12826	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is that book, "The Deceited Hague Turkey, Christine Dahl." You can also see from this original solution for the front page. I must tell you, Madam President, to hear, especially you from the DS, who supported the coup that tried to bring out a group of traitors in the SRS, that this is a unique example, that the writer of this book only ten days before he's going to betray his ideologist and his ideal leader, Alexander Vukic, writes a preface for this book that I really have to agree with, as well as the reader's audience and the entire public. If you're telling me that somewhere in the world, ever since there's written traces of a piece, there's someone who's been a writer of any book, and only ten days after the book's been out in public, deny it, to turn to MI-6, Americans, to take money from the tycoon, to stab a man in the back of a man who's in The Hague tribunal's dungeon, our president, I'm going to say -- well, that's another case, but there's no such thing. What does Vucic say in the preface of this book, so that it would be clear to you without being funny, because these are really true events and people by their names and names, members of their families who survived those tortures? He says -- probably no one in Serbia, nor would the most radical supporters of the SRS believe in the mafia style and manner of action so-called. Serbia's democratic leader, but this book and precise allegations absolutely confirmed it. Djindjic, in the style of a vicious puppet leader, threatened people by asking only one thing of them, which is false accusations against Dr Vojislav Seselj, marginalising the SRS and eviction from the Serbian political scene of all those who advocate any co-operation with the Russian Federation. That's why Dr Vojislav Seselj was dangerous, and that's why Serbia needs such a leader, which Mrs Pop-Lazic spoke of, at this most difficult time, when we are being blackmailed, when Serbs in a situation like this, with such a government, have no economic rescue, when people are out of work, when children are hungry, when pensioners suffer, when farmers barely survive. That's why I, once again, am grateful to all these people, and it's not contempt of the court, but it's the decisions of conscious people of Serbian patriots... Again, I must say that some of them were witnesses in the case against Slobodan Milosevic. When they showed up in court in a trial against our president, they said -- we regret, we accused an innocent man, we want to clear ourselves and our family members. Here, and I will end by thanking Radovan Novačić, Vojislav Dabić, Ljubisa Petkovic, Zoran Rankic, Jovan Glamocanin, Dragan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Gajic, Milovan Radovic, Nebojsa Stojanovic, Nenada Djuraskovic, Miodrag Lukovac, Milet Crnobrnji, Aleksandr Stefanovic, in particular, Dimcet Mijatovic (President: Will you, will you finish, please? ), Zoran Dražilovic, Nenad Mitic, Nenad Jovic, Miodrag Panic and Ljubisa Vukasinovic. These are Serbs who are to serve for example and honor, and never smile again when their names are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12827	The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović. This kind of goes beyond the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is abuse. (Natasa Jovanovic: What I was saying? I'm thinking of a follow-up. Also, the content of your presentation was not related to today's agenda. (Natasa Jovanovic: No, it's business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12828	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I fully understand your intentions to create an atmosphere to talk about two points of the agenda, but I think the MPs of the SRS are the last to talk about the importance of these two points. You'll agree with me that we spent at least hundreds of hours behind this pay phone asking questions and insisting on the fact that the State Auditing Institution should work. The understanding and importance of the institution, I think, was a problem with the majority, with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when the Government, for its well-known reasons, defined that this Rules of Procedure, which is on the agenda, should be issue number one. I can understand that, we are ideological on two different sides, for the government are one, and for us other issues of crucial or crucial importance for this country. Therefore, you will allow us, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to use our parliamentary and parliamentary rights, and to ask questions that we consider to be of great and vital importance to this country and its citizens. In that sense, I will, in accordance with Article 226, ask you for information, or I will ask you to forward my question to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It's not about KiM, but it's, in any case, directly or indirectly related to the Shipares. It's the Bujanovac municipality. A few days ago, I opened the question from this pay phone and said that in Bujanovac, council members of the assembly majority, which, truth thin, but made up the Shiparian committees, tried to replace the two remaining directors of Serbian public enterprises. A consensus of Serbian political parties in Bujanovac ensured that the December session should be suspended. So it is a consensus, and of course all legal, political and legitimate means. The session continued on January 15th, and what caused it to be suspended in December. So, the Cypriots and the two remaining Serbian directors changed at the assembly session. A political consensus has also been reached and all the Serb political parties have left the assembly session and the question is whether they will participate in the local parliament's work. Then I asked you, about January 15th, and now I ask you, for an answer from the Minister for Local Self-Government and President of the Coordination Centre – will the Coordination Body be determined according to this problem in the spirit of what he said from this pay phone, which objectively the SRS can understand and accept, and will the arches be the same for all national minorities and Serbs living in Bujanovac as a national minority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12829	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the Resoring Ministry and the Coordination Body. Mr. Petkovic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to continue my previous presentation. Before I ask questions to the Serbian government's resolute ministers, I would also like to announce to you that in The Hague, in 50 cases, more than 81 Serbian Orthodox religions have been indicted, the UN tribunal is at various stages of carrying out evidence, and two people, fortunately, are not available to The Hague tribunal. 51 people have been convicted, out of which the UN tribunal has justly sentenced 37 people, who have received 595.5 years in prison. In cases forwarded by The Hague tribunal to the state court of BiH, out of ten indictees, six have been sentenced to 126 years in prison. The UN war crimes tribunal's decision awaits three Serbs after a first-degree verdict of 85 years in prison. The UN tribunal has reached only one acquittal, in the Vukovar case, but has therefore brought a life sentence to Serbia's General Stanislav Galic. The UN tribunal is also responsible for the death of more people of Serbian nationality. I wouldn't list all the names, but you know about the case of Slobodan Milosevic, Milan Babic, Slavko Dokmanovic, etc. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia's resolute ministers. Is the government of the Republic of Serbia aware of the fact that for all atrocities committed against Serbs in KIM, only one member of the Cypriot Separatist KLA, with a penalty of 13 years? The second question -- is it known to the government of the Republic of Serbia that for all terrible crimes against the Serbs of Orthodox religion in BiH, no person in The Hague tribunal has been convicted by law? For crimes against Serbs of Orthodox faith in BiH, only Rasim Delic was convicted, to three years in prison, but this decision by the Court of Appeal could change, as in the case of Naser Oric. The 35.5-year sentence of prison was won by Serbs of Muslim religion in BiH. The question is: does the Government of the Republic of Serbia know that for the horrors of the Serbian people in Croatia, for ethnic cleansing, persecution of more than 250,000 Serbs, a large number of unremembered atrocities and murders, after which thousands of children were left without parents... (President: Time. I'll ask you one more question, let me finish. (President: You can. ) So there are thousands of children left without parents and persons with disabilities, and the UN tribunal has not reached any indictment. Since 192, as many Serbian Catholics have received in this civil war, and these are crimes against Muslim Serbs, Muslim religions in BiH, only the Zagreb County Court has sentenced Mirko Norac to seven years in prison, while Rahim Ademi has been released of responsibility. Serbs of Orthodox religion in The Hague tribunal were sentenced to 595.5 years in prison, BiH to 126 years in prison and 85 years in first-degree sentences before The Hague tribunal. Serbs have been punished so far with a total of 806,5 years in prison. And that's not all, because in The Hague, twenty more Serbs and four in BiH are being tried. We also have Goran Hadzic and Ratko Mladic, who, fortunately, are still free. (President: Will you bring the end? You've been talking for five minutes. ) The last question – is the Hague tribunal, with such selective verdicts, really the court of justice? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the verdicts in The Hague are here. If anyone suspects the credibility of my statements, I can give them to him for not having any secret documents. I ask the president of the Serbian Parliament to deliver a stenogram from today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12831	You'll get a stenogram. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic. I'd like to ask you once again to try to bring this part of the session to an end and start working on the agenda. It hasn't happened in an hour and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225th and 226, and I ask the Prime Minister and the president of this country -- what will they do to stop the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan in Kosovo? We are witnessing that a new army has been installed in Kosovo, new Janitors, because it literally means "a new army", with the only goal of banishing the few Serbs left down in Kosovo. The head of this army, like irony, is a man called Sultan. I want to remind this government and the public of Serbia that this country has long broken up with the Sultans. Even the Ottoman Empire itself, where the sultans have been sitting for centuries, no longer exists. In Turkey, a country that can be considered heir to the Ottoman Empire, no one remembers the last Turkish sultan Abdul Hamid anymore, and we are bringing the sultans back to Kosovo today. So, once again, I ask the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic - what will do to prevent this from happening down there? If once, 620 years ago, Sultan Murat and ruled Kosovo after a mutually knighted battle with the Serb army, this today's Sultan has ruled Kosovo thanks to the worst and most severe crimes against innocent Serbian civilians, with the help of your friends from the EU. You are today able to subdue everything to the interests of the same EU, and thanks to some laws, some delegations that we need to set for the EU, we are not discussing Kosovo today, and thanks to this very fact, today we have a situation for the sultans to rule in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12833	Your and other MPs' initiative has just been realised in a sense, because Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has just made contact with the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, they are agreeing on the term of the session of the KIM Committee, where the minister will be present. I think the Assembly's initiative on this subject is practically exhausted, given that these are our options. It will also be conveyed to the president of the state and to the Prime Minister your interest in including themselves in this extremely important issue, because there is no state whose state and national issue is not a question before all other issues, but their views on this topic are quite publicised. In any case, your initiative will be transferred. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12834	Ladies and gentlemen, under Article 226, I request a notice from the Serbian government -- why did Serbian diplomacy not respond to the adoption of a resolution in the European Parliament, asking EU countries in the Western Balkans to mark July 11th as the day of memory of the Srebrenica genocide crime? Serbia reacted with silence to this resolution. Both the Serbian government and this parliament. With this silence, we accept that our enemies are loading on the back of the Serb people an intolerable burden of genocide, a burden that will not bear only these, but also the future generations of the Serbian people. This silence is particularly incomprehensible if the following facts are given in mind. I'll only name three. First, there was no genocide in Srebrenica. According to international law, genocide is if someone organized, planically destroys and destroys a certain ethnic group. If someone wants to destroy a certain ethnic group, one nation, it's logical to destroy its most vital part first, it's children, and the reproductive part, it's women. What were Serbian soldiers doing in Srebrenica? After entering Srebrenica and Potocara, Serbian soldiers literally loaded all children and women into trucks and buses and drove to Tuzla to a Muslim-controlled territory. Another fact – 3,356 Serbs have been buried in the Podrinj area so far. Less than 3,000 Muslim victims have been buried in the same area so far. It has been found that many of them died during the war, and recently you had a case of a girl on the list of murdered, who came to Srebrenica and took pictures next to the monument that was erected by her. The girl's alive, and she's on the hit list. A total of ten buildings were burned after the entry of the Serb army into Srebrenica. The Muslim army in Podrinj left 150 Serb villages completely destroyed, with 3,500 facilities. Instead of discussing in this House the shameful resolution adopted in the European Parliament, what do we have in Serbia? We have an abnormal situation, that one parliamentary party, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, today I read in the paper, is launching an initiative to join Serbia in the anti-Serbian circuit, and that Serbia also begins to mark July 11th as the Day of Remembrance of the Crime of the genocide in Srebrenica. A day of memory of a crime that wasn't committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12835	The Rules of Procedure were advertised by Srboljub Zivanovic, a national MP. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12836	Ladies and gentlemen, we see that the president is all the time angry at us for going out and talking to the Rules of Procedure and constantly saying that 221 MPs signed this review law initiative. I understand, you're right, but you have to understand that we're right too, because what's happening today at KIM probably wasn't at that time interval when this initiative on this audit house bill was supposed to be on the agenda. And I'm interested, like many -- in many shows I hear that the number is not known exactly, I'm setting it up according to the members of 225 and 226, I'm looking for an answer -- how many Serbs and non-Albanian population have been killed? Do you know how many Serbs and non-Albanians were killed today in KIM from 1999 to today? It manipulates the numbers from 1,200 to 2,500. You don't know exactly. On what basis will you seek tomorrow or fight the battle for KIM? Ladies and gentlemen, you've seen Riza Halimi fight for those nine arrested. What he's trying to say is that their arrest was supposed to be a nice, nice arrest, that he was angry as they were and how they were arrested. And these are the people who have done the most evil to the Serbs and the non-Albanian population. You saw how they marched, as you said, those KLA veterans in Presevo. Is there also a way to implement the arrest of these veterans, who have also committed crimes against Serbs and non-Albanian populations? You, ladies and gentlemen, can't see it, because you can't mention KIM for this assembly speaker. You must not mention love, patriotism or patriotism towards Serbia. You must not raise the largest media blockade, which is greater in Serbia today than in any regimeal government. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember that one here, at the assembly pay phone, said he wasn't sorry that he wasn't in The Hague, because there are only Serbian patriots and Serbian patriots. That's why you don't want to help these people in their defense. Imagine, then, where is your love and where your patriotism towards this Serbia, towards the citizens of Serbia, and let alone today talk about the budget, about helping those who are unemployed, or about talking... (President: Time. Every day your mouth is full of social policy, but it is important that when elections come, you deceive those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12837	Mr. Omerovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12838	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to a violation of the Assembly's dignity. In this case, it is not only about the dignity of the Assembly, but also about something that is an eclectic threat and harassment to the public and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this morning's hours, before today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began, certain persons shared with the MPs and citizens outside the Serbian Parliament's building "Sandzačka Novi", a paper that is trying to present itself as some national institution of Bosniaks. On this occasion, I apologize to you, honourable fellow Members of the People, and above all to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Sandzak Democratic Party, which, unfortunately, you are burdened with events and events that have been staged and incidented in Novi Pazar. But what's this about? It's not just a threat to Parliament's dignity. It is an attempt to intimidate the citizens of Serbia, to present the illegal activities of a member of the government with a monstrous accusation that the assassination of Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin was attempted. This newspaper, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not any vote by Bosniaks in Serbia, is not any sign of the National Council of Bosniaks in Serbia, as the institutions of the Bosniak people. This is a private note, this is Mr. Suleiman Ugljanin's party party. Its right to print party newspapers, however, no one in this country has the right, even if he was a minister, to put himself above the law, to try to take justice into his own hands. This right exclusively belongs to competent independent judicial institutions. What is trying to do today, and at the moment when the talks at SO Novi Pazar begin to calm the situation, that is, to resolve this property-law dispute that has all started, can only further upset the public. In fact, gentlemen from the Suleiman Ugljanin party remembered after three days and came up with a monstrous charge of attempted assassination of Mr. Suleiman Ugljanin. It took them three days to, after all the nebulous arguments, hide illegal activity, to cover up a violation of the law by Minister Suleiman Ugljanin, who broke into state institutions, remember that it was allegedly an assassination attempt. The bullet that traveled for three days seems to be in that good joke (President: Time). ) bypassed Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin, but unfortunately, everything they do does does not bypass the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we need to point out, especially in the SDP, is that it is unacceptable to talk on one side about the threat of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, because that is not at all what we are talking about here. Serbian citizens, all of what is happening in Novi Pazar and all that has happened after the vandal incursion of Sulejman Ugljanin with his supporters in an institution called the House of Culture, has nothing to do with the threat of the Bosniak people, with the endangerment of Bosniak national institutions (President: Will you bring the end, please? ) is neither Sulejman Ugljanin nor is the "Sandzak newspaper" a Bosniak institution. It's simply an eclectic violation of the law. Please, National Assembly President, to check how and how someone can share certain pamphlets that are harassed by the public, because harassing MPs, sharing newspapers with such exciting content, with such annoying, threatening and monstrous accusations that it is an attempt to kill a minister in the government, is nothing more than disturbing the entire public of Serbia. Once again, I apologize to all of you, dear fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12839	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12840	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the sense of the provisions of the article. The 225th and 226th requests a notice – does the Republic of Serbia have a strategy to defend its state and its sovereignty? Namely, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia is regulated in one of the basic and most important laws of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the provision of Article 97: "The Republic of Serbia regulates and provides sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia... '". I ask the question – does the National Assembly, President of the Republic of Serbia, believe that the territory, sovereignty and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens are not the most endangered in Europe and has never been more endangered than they are today? The powers of the President of the Republic are laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 112: "The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I propose that the session for which this agenda has been adopted be suspended, because if we have waited years to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution, we can wait for at least one day to adopt a resolution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I propose and ask that this session be suspended today, that a new session be opened, that the President of the Republic be invited to this session, because it represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. Here today, it is his place to represent the Republic of Serbia and to show the world to both powerful people and to assure the Serbian people that he is really in the mood, that he has the will and intention to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the security of borders and its citizens. I suggest today the representatives of the Government, the Ministers, come. The entire government should today be in parliament, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, to bring a resolution in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Assembly declares itself on the threat of the security of the Republic of Serbia, the kidnapping of its territory, and not that the foreign minister is being sent to some ordinary, third-rate letter to some officials from the embassy of the Western countries, the NATO Alliance, which bombed the Republic of Serbia, killed tens of thousands... (President: Time. The culprits are responsible for killing tens of thousands of former SRJ citizens, the international community and NATO are responsible for causing damage to this country over a hundred billion dollars. (President: Will you bring the end, please? Thank you, I apologize, Madam President. That is why I am asking and proposing to interrupt the session, to call on the President of the Republic, the entire government, that today Parliament sits, decides and investigates the most important issue of this moment, and when it comes to the sovereignty and jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and its responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12841	The word is Mr. Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. Both the public and you know well that several months ago, Tomislav Nikolic said someone was threatening him with death. Normally, we from the SRS have repeatedly demanded, and now I am asking Minister Dacic to inform us as soon as possible – is it true and who is directing the murder and the assassination of Tomislav Nikolic? I am also interested because I belong to the majority people in Sandzak, i.e. To the Muslim people, this statement that someone wanted to assassinate Suleiman Ugljanin. I'm not interested in a fight between these parties, because I've repeatedly criticised their policy because it's not good for Sandzak citizens, which is why I've chosen a party that's honest and fair, that's why. The SRS. Normally, because of the anxiety of citizens living there, I also ask the Ministry of Police, i.e. The edge of Dacic, to calm down the situation as soon as possible, and see if it's true that someone has committed an assassination on Suleiman Ugljanin. There's a situation, believe me, very dangerous, because there are some things going on that recommend to all Sandzak citizens, especially the New Market, that some political leaders must be guarded. That is why I appeal to the Ministry and to the Government, because there are two ministers in the government who run these parties to solve these problems as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12843	Mr. Marko Milenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Because of the responsibility and concern that each of us MPs has felt in these crisis and critical times (some more, some less and some in general), and because of the dissension and betrayal that has followed us through history for centuries, and today it is related to KIM, this way I ask for a notice and an explanation from the prime minister – what will the government do about the formation of paramilitary and state institutions in Kosovo, given that this is only the beginning, without being mild, young, unconvincing and unconvincing protests to European institutions? Today, after 620 Vidovdan, for the fate of the Serbian people, nothing is more crucial than the battle that lasts in Kosovo and Kosovo. SRS lawmakers have been warning for months that EULEX, an EU mission, has been proposed since Ahtisaari to implement a decision on Kosovo's independence, to help form the institutions of a false state, to try to build a quasi-state structure, and not on the basis of force, but by all-out acceptance and act by the puppet government of Mirko Cvetkovic. The government and president of Serbia have literally done everything to legalise the illegal Eulex mission in Kosovo, arguing that the mission will be statusally neutral. At the same time, the government returns the highest ambassadorial principle of functioning our diplomacy with some EU countries continues to work to break up the long-standing Serbian state, trampling through Serbian tragedy and victims and organised crime of trafficking in human organs of Serbs, tortured and tortured by the criminal KLA. The Serbian people lived on Cosmet for centuries. Now our people are threatened by the formation of the terrorist army and the citizens of Toplički District, Kursumli, Blaca and Prokova are both aware (President: Time). ..the seriousness of the situation, so we ask this nation's power to be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12845	Mr. Fired Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12846	I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. What is happening these days at KIM, the legalization of the Kosovo terrorist army, is just a drop in a glass that seems to have been spilled a long time ago. And it wasn't only the Serbs at KIM who were brought into new danger. We are witnessing that, unfortunately, Serbs are at risk across Serbian countries and their queens. Simply, this country is, if it exists at all, in absolute decay, in pure anarchy. There's no concern for an ordinary citizen. You saw that the Serbs who went to a basketball game, in this case, the Red Star basketball players, were exposed to a brutal savage attack at the Split airport. The same president of the state, Boris Tadic, did not say a word about this attack. He tempered what happened at KIM, and he sent gas, gas, whatever you want, to the citizens of Sarajevo. I mean, the majority, Muslim Sarajevo. So she's their mother, and she's our stepmother. That's the man who seems to be starting all the evil in this country. When I say that we are not protected in Serbia, that the government he runs for us doesn't care at all, even here in the Republic of Serbia, I am based on what I told you yesterday, and you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, have not given any answer. In fact, I've extremely collegiately warned you that I would speak on the basis of an article. 225th and 226th requesting information from the Home Secretary. I said I was threatened. I wonder if those are serious threats. I said I was threatened by members of the extra-parliamentary Serbian Progressive Party, led by Tomislav Nikolic, and their threats can be trusted. So I'm wondering if it'll come true. So I ask the Minister of the Interior – are some measures taken? They can be trusted because you were all witnesses when Tomislav Nikolic, their boss, physically attacked our MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. These are people who are really aggressive and willing to do the worst. The threat is to me, my family, my wife, my son. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I did not tell you that I had previously been exposed to attacks of various species. I've been demoted twice in front of the house. About one of those demoralizations, since it was complete, there's a police report. Also, I was shot at the moment I entered the house. And today, there's a hole through which the missile went through. Of course, it's been done and a police insight. I wasn't told what the report said or what measures were taken, but these are facts, facts I wasn't talking about. Now I'm telling you, trying to add seriousness to my claim yesterday. So this is what I'd end up with, if one MP isn't sure, then what does an ordinary citizen expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12847	Mr. MP, yesterday I forwarded your question to the Ministry of the Interior and I expect an answer, as do you. The question was passed yesterday, and today we will repeat it and we will deliver a complete stenogram to the Ministry of the Interior. The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12848	Articles 225 and 226. The issue is for current power, for Minister Jeremic, for Boris Tadic – what will they do specifically and what measures will they take now, when Kosovo's independence is realised in full swing and Serbian territory is being kidnapped? Unfortunately, everything the SRS pointed to is coming true. It is now obvious that the current regime participates in the process of recognising Kosovo's independence, a process of recognition that began with the adoption of an illegal Eulex mission tasked with ensuring the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan. All the authorities claimed, claiming Ahtisaari's plan was buried, that certain conditions of Belgrade that would allegedly protect Kosovo and Serbia's territorial integrity would be met, would represent a clear deception. This is what Peter Faith, the EU's special representative, and the EU, which is the absolute priority of the current government. This is an illustration that the EU is providing for the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan. It's the text in the Kosovo list "Zeri". Feith is conducting consultations with the prime minister's president on elections and International Civilian Office head Peter Feith, as the chief interpreter of the provisions of Ahtisaari's plan, did not give a final answer whether parliamentary elections will be organised in Kosovo this year compared to the local one. He says - my role is to discuss the provisions of the comprehensive Ahtisaari plan, which says the elections will be held nine months after the entry into force of Ahtisaari's plan. I'm in consultation with the president and the prime minister, and you'll get information in the near future. So it's obvious that Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented. Here is another illustration of the EU's staunch engagement to get the state of Kosovo integrated into the EU as soon as possible. This Shiptarian state is not subject to any conditions, as is the case with our country. "Kosovo's Sot", the Kosovo List, writes -- EU mission representatives in Kosovo held a joint press conference at which they presented their priorities for 2009. EU representatives have pledged that our country (so they think of the state of Kosovo) will have the same criteria for integration as any country. For the EU's representative in Kosovo, Peter Feith, our country's institutions should engage in permanent reforms towards integration. Reforms mean Kosovo's preparation for integration, the European perspective and stabilisation and accession, Feith said. When it comes to technical negotiations on the so-called (President: Time). ) six points between Belgrade and Pristina, which are represented by the current government, and the SRS warned that behind these so-called so-called The technical negotiations hide the fact that the independent state of Kosovo has been recognised, and these negotiations will not look exactly like Minister Jeremic and Boris Tadic's famous announcement, where these six points were reportedly meant to be the burial of Ahtisaari's plan. The Pristina-based daily Express writes -- neither Pristina nor Belgrade has received a call for technical negotiations, the international community still does not have a formula for this process, nor knows which international organisations will play a leading role in mediating. Some options are being considered, but new negotiations will not be in last year's format, which ended with a six-point plan rejected by Pristina. So the question is, what will the government do to protect the interests of the state now that they have already helped create an independent state of Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12849	Since a dozen other members of the SRS appear in the Rules of Procedure, I suggest we agree to take a break or bring it down to a number that will allow us to still work on the agenda today. The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we should begin this second extraordinary session that holds for the agenda the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution. If you look at the materials available to us, you can see that the Rules of Procedure was sent to this house on 24 December 2007. Why is it so, it's clear to all of us, about -- we haven't had control and audit of the budget, and the ultimate result is, unfavourable by state, of course, booming corruption, which has crawled into all the social life pores. Here, now you see, and there's a big issue of health corruption on television, and we're all witnessing that it's a cancer wound of Serbian society and there's a lot of talk about it. Today is January 22, 2009, and we are discussing something that we were asked to discuss a year ago, and we will agree that we are waiting too long to discuss something in this congregation. Look what's happening to us today. We have a current political scene that speeds up the events that lead our country and our people into a very unfavourable situation. I'm practically thinking about three facts that have been spoken of so far, and that's the trial in The Hague, where the Hague tribunal is trying to now, having nothing else, initiate proceedings against Vojislav Seselj for contempt of the court, generating and inventing some facts that do not stand and, of course, we have what is happening in Sandzak (or in the Rusk area, as already more advantageous) and what is happening at KIM. If you are looking at how the current government behaves, like in the president of the state of Boris Tadic, then you can see that he is in session with the Infrastructure Commission (it is probably most important that he is ambushed at the time), the government points out some dissuasive warnings and disagreements, and, indeed, the republican war crimes prosecutor is also not responding to the events in The Hague. However, there is also one object in the prosecution that has already been elaborated here several times, where robbery and crime have been proven in Sremska Kamenica, in a health institution, and now you see what the UN tribunal is doing. (President Nikola Novakovic: Time, Mr. Momchilov. ) Now, if we are going to discuss current problems next year, as we are discussing now, after a year, we will not be doing well. Therefore, the Serbian Radicals proposal today discussed the hot and most important problems of the Serbian state. The resolutions we have adopted in this House oblige us to report against what is happening in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12851	Thank you. On the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic points out and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226 and I am asking for an explanation, or an answer from the Ministry of Human Rights, of the competent minister of human rights, and the question is, what is the competent ministry doing to protect the human rights of the Hague prisoners? Prof. Vojislav Seselj has been illegally in the UN tribunal's criminal case for nearly six years. There's no law in that court. Because if it did, how would it occur to them to try to take away the rightful president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj to defend himself? It's nowhere in the world. The Hague tribunal was founded to protect the global politics of the lies of force, and to defend the truth that defends itself in a court of law, in the name of injustice. It's a Vatican-Mason policy that destroys the world and all those who can think. And Professor Vojislav Seselj stood up against such a policy. He defends not only crimes committed against the Serb people, he defends the planetary truth. Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is a symbol of resistance against such a fictitious court, a killer's court whose task is to kill the truth through processes. But Professor Vojislav Seselj is a man of super-average intelligence, exceptional psyche and incredible strength, who must defend his right by means of life and knowledge. Prof. Seselj has impressed the whole world with his defenses, and what our country does to protect professors. Seselj and all others in The Hague and not yet found guilty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12853	Thank you very much. The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course today's agenda is very important and current. It's about the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution and we talked about it when the budget was debated. In addition to the fact that since 2001, as we heard in the debate, there has been no final account on the users of the state budget, however, there are some things that are obstacles, and these are current developments in the part of our territory, in KIM. That is why I call on Article 226 and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a notice and answer to the question – how will the remaining Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija protect them after the announcement and formation of the Kosovo Security Force? I ask this question because everyone, apart from Shiptar, in Kosovo and Metohija, is in great fear and fear for the naked life. The murderers and massacrers of the Serb people in Cosmet are now the guardians of the so-called Kosovo security. Eulex, who you have accepted with some agreement between Tadic and the UN and which in our media is called a mission, and so on. Kosovo security forces have a warrant from the same boss. None of us MPs are familiar with the content of this alleged agreement. Neither Tadic nor anyone from the government had the mandate of the National Assembly, nor does such an agreement have any importance until it is ratified in the National Assembly. The assembly must obviously not know the content of this agreement. It is only praised by Tadic, Djelic, Cvetkovic, Dinkic and various NGOs. Just us, the legitimate representatives of the citizens, that so-called The great diplomatic victory is unknown. There is no answer to these questions from our MPs, because our unwavering, consecrated government in Europe is uncomfortable, undesirable, so they need to be kind of minimized, sprayed, unpleasant news on the media somehow overlapped, that they don't really stick their eyes out to those who are interested in it. We are interested in all of us, and primarily MPs of the opposition, Serbian citizens and those living in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs and other non-Albanian citizens. Regardless of the Nobel Prize, Ahtisaari will not be able to remove Cosmet from our borders, from our memory and heart, against all resolutions and decisions. This was promised by DOS authorities in their diplomacy, as this is a democratic issue, they said. You are obliged to take your democratic action, here, for nine years (President: Time). ) do so, although the slightest shift has not been made during that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12855	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will exercise my right to do so on the basis of Article 226. I request an explanation from the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, i.e. I refer the question to the Ministry of Trade, or to the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is evident that Serbian citizens face a number of gatherings, i.e. this new 2009 continued to increase the price started in the second half of last year. The latest surveys by the Institute of Market Research show that even businessmen in the next three months and six months expect a sharp rise in the prices of their products due to an increasingly unfavourable business climate, a decline in the value of domestic currency and gas collection, which has practically set off this wave of purchases. As a MP, and I am sure that the question would be addressed by most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is of interest – are the Ministry of Trade and the Government preparing a certain package of measures that would stop this extremely unpleasant trend in time? I will only remind you that, among other things, it has been announced that since February 1st, it will collect city transport in Belgrade by about 30%, that the price of telephone impulses has been up by 33% since the beginning of the year (now it is 47 pairs), that the EPS announces the possibility that electricity in Serbia has already been collected by about 22% in early March or April (although they thought it should have been done as early as February 1st, but since the Energy Agency has not received an official request from the EPS, they estimate that April is some real date for the electricity price correction). Also, according to the latest data from the EU Statistics Agency, the only country that has seen higher food prices than Serbia in the last three years is Latvia. So, only the prices of services are lower than the European average, and there is almost no group of goods in which our country does not predominate by the purchases. With information that catering prices have increased by 10.4% in the past year, all of them force us to take maximum care of what awaits us, that we do not allow a lower standard of living, or a difficult social situation for the largest number of Serbian citizens to be brought into an even worse situation. I think it is necessary that the Ministry of Trade, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be defined according to the information I have provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12857	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice and I ask a parliamentary question, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. Many times so far, my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, and particularly Mr Petar Jojic, have been asking questions about agriculture, i.e. the lease of state land and the use of the state land, whether it is intended or not. I am taking the opportunity to address this issue to both the State Auditor and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, in order to get a certain answer. Number one -- how much did the Serbian Ministry of Agriculture conclude contracts to rent state agricultural land? Under two – I request a copy of the contract to rent state land for every tenant from the local government, such as: Šid, Sremska Mitrovica, Caves, Irig, Ruma, Stara Pazova and Indji. Three, which of the tenants fell into lateness and did not pay the rent? Four – has the competent authority of the Ministry of Agriculture broken the lease agreements with non-fulfilment and failed to fulfil the obligations of the contract (namely)? Five – has the main payment procedure been initiated with a legally tight interest on irresponsible tenants, according to the Law on Liabilities? Six -- when did the charge come on every contract? Seven – how many contracts in the municipalities of Šid, Sremska Mitrovica, Pećinci, Irig, Ruma, Stara Paz and Indjia paid rents for each contract and how many rents were not paid per contract for each economic year? Eight - total hectares charged and total unpaid, how much is each tenant's debt on today? 9 – Why did the Ministry of Agriculture conclude harmful contracts? Because the tenants had to pay the rent in advance, as our peasants do, even if they were to advance a certain amount as a guarantee that they would eventually pay the agreed amount, according to the Law of Licensation, and that was not done. The government of the Republic of Serbia gives these gifts and rewards its friends through political parties, godfathers, relatives, and honest peasants cannot, unless they pay in advance, easily win the country in the arena. This is how the government helps rich people, powerful people and members of political parties, and the state of Serbia and its budget suffers damage (President: Time. ..that is valued at dozens of billions of dinars, which... Thank you, I'll continue after, to finish this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12859	Thank you, too. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and the Messenger of the people Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens today have daily problems that are difficult to solve, and I am asking an explanation, above all, from the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, prime minister, foreign minister and KIM minister. EU High Representative in Kosovo Peter Feith said Kosovo's independence is a closed issue that cannot be negotiated. "Kosovo's independence is irrevocable, it cannot be negotiated and that should be in mind," Feith said. According to him, it is necessary to make it clear to Serbia that it cannot progress in European integration if it continues to create problems for the establishment of a European Union mission. "In this phase, our friends in Serbia should be made clear that they will not be able to get close to the EU institutions as they create problems and obstacles to the establishment of the Eulexa mission," Feith said. I suppose he calls his friends the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here, and certainly not Serbian citizens, especially citizens of Serbian nationality and other non-Albanian animals in Kosovo and Metohija. These statements by the EU High Representative in KIM point out unequivocally that the implementation of the Martti Ahtisaari plan is at work. Here, several MPs, above all from the SRS, asked certain questions and asked for explanations. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic referred to the minister for KIM. I express my reasonable suspicion that the KIM minister is not maximum and sincerely involved in solving these problems. I will only remind you that on 1 November 2007, when the session of the KIM Committee was held in Gracanica, Minister Goran Bogdanovic, as a member of the KIM Committee, as a man living on KIM, did not attend the committee, and therefore I doubt that any questions that will be forwarded to Minister Bogdanovic will not give a real and quality answer and that he is not a man who advocates the protection of KIM, for the protection of Serbian citizens living in KIM. The fact that Kosovo's security forces are being created, that is, the military of the so-called military. The Republic of Kosovo, and who will help them all, who will be their logistics support (President: Time, Mr. Peric. ) and support in providing material resources, it says that citizens of Serbia, or Serbs living in KIM, cannot expect anything good from this government and the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. I'm sorry about the overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12861	The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic, then Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12862	Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the formation of the Kosovo army, whose commanders and instructors will be the greatest massacrers of the Serb people, there is indeed a legitimate fear and concern of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. The fear of the people of KIM will be justified that they will remain unprotected, that they will remain exposed to brutal attacks by Cypriot terrorists, as has been done so far. That's why I have a question for the Security Information Agency, as well as the Military Security Agency -- did they have any operational information about the formation of this Shipage Army? If they did, when did they get that data? If these data have come to light, have they informed the relevant factors in the state of Serbia, the president of the state and the Prime Minister in time? In addition, I have a question for them – how many Serbs and other non-Albanians have been killed in KIM since the arrival of international forces, how many have been expelled from KIM and how many have returned? So, attacks on the Serbian people, emigration, robbery and murder have not taken place for a long time and have not begun at all, as some political analysts, politicians and politicians are trying to show, at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I'm just going to remind you of one fact that speaks in favor of this. In a diplomatic note sent by the state of Serbia to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1898, Tuska said this way: "Arbanasis, well-armed and fully certain that they will not be punished, gave full freedom to their ferocious impulses, since their fanaticism and uncontrollable hatred stand in the way. The number of Serb exiles crossing the border to save lives is huge and growing from day to day.' Gentlemen, this was 1898. I want to remind you of something else. Do you know of that game of "shots", which unfortunately plays at our weddings, escorts and other joys? Do you know the origin of these words? That's the word that comes from Shota Galica. It's the wife of a great Serbian, fierce Serb killer, who slaughtered many Serbian nemivores and children at the time. It is this woman (President: Time, Mr. Lightning). After the death of that Adem Bate, who was her husband, caught six Serbian children and burned them alive. Gentlemen, history repeats itself, and indeed no one should close their eyes to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12863	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, you can see that the hall is getting more and more empty. They're all here in the morning. Especially when MPs on the right, MPs from the SRS, the DSS and New Serbia mention KIM, is a permanent laugh and, I may say, a joke about our country's attitude towards KIM. It is absolutely clear to all of us what your relationship to KIM is, and the relationship to what is being prepared in Vojvodina is clear. I would remind our citizens that the government, the MUP and the president of the state have not responded to the release and spread of the Vojvodina calendar by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. It is clear to all of us what Nenad Canak said about this speaker - if he had wondered, it would not have been written the statutes of the Vojvodina, but the constitution of the Vojvodina. No one's responding. It is clear to all of us what is behind this and I fear that Nenad Canak also has support for Boris Tadic for such a thing. As for the Statute of Vojvodina, when it comes to the SRS and their views, we sincerely hope that the statute will never come to mind at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will fight with every means possible for such a thing, and I hope that we will succeed. I have one question for the police ministry – what was done to examine Tomislav Nikolic's statement about his assassination? What was done about falsely representing the public that the SRS received two million euros? To examine who she was given, who received that money and to inform the MPs, to get a report from the police department. We've heard a lot from the MPs here today, first of all we're thinking about agriculture. You'll have nothing to hear about it. We hope that tomorrow the Committee on Agriculture, chaired by someone who should not chair, will be held by someone who has no legitimacy in this congregation. That committee must be chaired (President: Time, Mr. Flea. Someone from the SRS. Excuse me, Mr. Novakovic, just to finish up in one sentence. I hope that tomorrow we will present to the Committee on Agriculture all the problems of our farmers and that the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture will be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12865	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12866	Thank you, I'm reporting by Article 27, especially when it comes to how this session is run. You, I don't mean you as chairman, but I think you should do something about it. Before that, I'll say something else. We have been listening all morning to the speeches of the MPs who appear in the Rules of Procedure and point to something to be pointed out. So what the predecessors were talking about is obviously a serious thing, and it points to a disaster, on the edge of the flood that Serbia faces when it comes to a job that I think was of great importance to protect the territorial integrity of the state. Obviously, the creation of a security force on KIM is actually due to the irresponsible behaviour of the state government of Serbia in relation to how it thinks it protects the territorial integrity of the state, because it obviously does not protect it. It does not protect him by agreeing to blackmail and traps by those who cite Serbia, or even political representatives of Kosovo Albanians, separatists, to do what they do. The first is the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is hidden in the weather. They'll probably talk about it a long time later, and historians will analyze it. The second is, of course, the summoning and summoning of Eulex. This was the most flagrant violation of Resolution 1244 by Serbia. When the state does it itself, everything that happens after that, it's no wonder. That is why the letter we heard was so grotesque that the president of the state, Boris Tadic, sent to the UN Secretary-General. That sharp protest, which he's up to, to those who read it there, probably seems more than funny. And that's tragic for us. They think it's funny, and we don't. However, when we listen to this debate and see how much time has passed and, let's say, when we heard what the previous speaker said, it is easy to conclude that there is another problem here, when it comes to the very running of the session and the functioning of the National Assembly, the way these sessions are scheduled. I can imagine what it is, and the public already knows, that's what the predecessors of another political party pointed to here, but I think it's irresponsible of those who run the National Assembly and who make up the ruling majority not to make any efforts during today's afternoon to make serious consultations and, if there are any problems, to sort of get rid of them. Everything that's been said here about KIM is absolutely correct, and that's what any of us normally sign. The problem is that if something is done beyond a measure, it is obviously not the fault of whoever does it, as often the ruling coalition wants to present, but someone who is not able to solve a problem that exists. That is why I am asking you, the chairman, to end this, to warn the President of the National Assembly that, as soon as possible, he has scheduled a consultation of the heads of Parliament's groups and to see what the problem is and how he is being dealt with. This session was called by 221 MPs with their signatures. In order for it to run uninterrupted and to function normally, it is necessary that the problems that exist be solved if they exist. I'm asking you best to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12867	Thank you. Of course, we will immediately refer your proposal to the president of the National Assembly, but the fact is that the session was scheduled by 221 MPs, that it was repeatedly postponed, that it started today. It was simply that no one could even think of calling any consulting meetings when the importance of the items on the agenda was known. But that does not mean that such a meeting, a consulting one, will not be held very soon. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12868	Thank you to the colleagues who gave me their word and allowed me to speak before they did. Just because of what you just said and what Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic has tried to draw attention to several times today during the debate, to say that what is important today as a agenda, that the agenda is set out on the proposal of 221 MPs (that means almost everyone, only eight MPs did not sign this proposal), is just talking about something else. We, MPs from the opposition, have initiated that we are doing a job that was actually in the jurisdiction of the government. The ruling coalition should have put both sides on the agenda long ago. We talked months ago about how necessary it is to talk about it. We are the ones who insist on the final accounts of the budget, we are the ones who say it is necessary to create the conditions for the work of the State Auditing Institution, we are the ones who draw attention (and we have been very often paying attention) to create conditions for the work of Mr Sabic and his team, so that as much as possible is in order, although much is missing. We want to talk about it and we'll talk about it. That's absolutely not controversial. But we can't wait for the security, or whatever they call them, that military group on KIM, to turn into an official army, because it actually is. We can't wait, with all due respect and the gentlemen who came here, unlike the representatives of the government, who should be sitting here, and who from the very beginning didn't think to come, because we'd have something to say to them and we'd have something on the subject of what's on the agenda. Because the government is responsible for why these people here, or institutions they represent, have no working conditions. If that wasn't enough reason for them, then I guess they have some press service, some cabinet chief, they have someone who's doing something in that government. Didn't anyone draw their attention, if the president and the chairman didn't, that we insist on coming, if the president couldn't (and I don't see why he couldn't, it's about matters of interest for the state of Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia), then why didn't Jeremic, Bogdanovic, come to tell us... You, I'm sorry, you don't know anything more than we do, and you're informing yourself from the papers. We want to inform ourselves of the state of kim of those who are in this state of responsibility. For that reason alone, this is no obstruction, this is something we are convinced, today it interests anyone who cares about the state of Serbia. I'm very surprised that even the representatives of the government are not discussing this. Yesterday, someone, a representative of a parliamentary group from the government, said something about it. No one's doing anything today. It hasn't been solved since yesterday. On the contrary, today we have an announcement from the Secretary of State, last night by Minister Jeremic that it is inevitable, something that we can only bend our shoulders and write a letter to dear Ban Ki Moon, as once dear George. What's in it for us? Unfortunately, we have nothing. That's why we insist on discussing it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12869	Thank you. Mr Aligrudic's proposal to hold a consultation meeting has just been transferred to parliament's president. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12870	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue my question, which is very delicate and extensive, and I will finish it. This way, the government, related to the lease of state-owned agricultural land, helps rich people, powerful people and members of some political parties, and the state of Serbia and its budget suffer damage estimated at dozens of billions of dinars, which seems to be a direct damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget and beyond, to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This issue is not being raised except for Serbian Radical Party MPs. We ask that the State Auditor carry out an audit of all state land lease contracts and report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The people's well-being can no longer be the alaibe's straw for the government of the Republic of Serbia. So far, MP Petar Jojic has asked the government of the Republic of Serbia how many Croatian companies have bought in ownership and leased agricultural land in Serbia, especially Agrokor, Mr. Todorovic's property, and I also join this request by Mr. Petar Jojic. And I am dissatisfied with why the Ministry of Agriculture has so far not given an answer and again I ask that the MPs finally be answered to the parliamentary question. I am looking for answers to a question about the lease of agricultural, or state-owned land – does a Serbian company have a company in Croatia, and which? This is a parity issue, because of the market and because of all the interstate relations that need to be leveled through this activity. It should be on equal terms to allow the majority of individual agricultural producers to be leased for example. 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and up to 100 acres, which will pay neatly. Thus, farmers can be helped to produce for themselves and for the needs of the country and even to export agricultural and livestock products. This can be achieved by carrying out the parceling of larger areas of agricultural land and making less parcels available to all agricultural producers, who can rent smaller areas and who will pay the arena in time and within the agreed time limit. In practice, however, large areas of agricultural goods and combinations, the Ministry of Agriculture is renting to tycoons, profits and foreign companies which, as a rule, are almost not paid and are thus rich at the expense of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12871	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that today in this assembly the representatives of the two most important institutions are present for the state of Serbia and the taxpayers, with several aspects. There are representatives of the State Auditor, there is also the Information Commissioner, but both of these institutions are prevented from functioning and are not allowed to perform certain tasks and tasks as prescribed by the laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, is not a vain or side issue of what we of the SRS are asking when it comes to state agricultural land. Mr. Representative of the State Auditor and that institution, you have a serious job to do. The biggest robbery and the biggest crime today is in your agrarian, and this crime is concentrated mainly in former agricultural cooperatives, which the powerful, the profiteers, mobsters and thieves, under very unfavourable conditions for the citizens and workers of Serbia, took into their hands, took possession and owned. State agricultural land is occupied. A classic example of the robbery of taxpayers, citizens and the budget of the Serbian state is actually a crime in those former combinations, because the powerful have come in a very deceitful way to possess these large areas with huge capital and value. It would not have happened if only Serbia and the Vatican in Europe had no state auditor. What do we do, Mr. Auditor? Regarding what Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic pointed out, these are pressing questions for the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and the State Auditor have very difficult and serious tasks. The SRS MPs are turning to the most important issue at the moment -- the position of workers, the security of the Republic of Serbia, as the state's property is being pillaged and robbed. I'll get back to you because I haven't had enough time. Mr. Vice President, you'll let me get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12873	I absolutely agree with you that the work of the State Auditing Institution may be the most significant part of the work that awaits us in the coming period, but of course, also, the State Auditing Institution cannot start working without congregation consent to its Rules of Procedure, which is the first item of the agenda. The word came from Miss Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226, although, Mr. Chairman, I could also contact you on the basis of Article 104, because you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly by insulting the intelligence of the right-hand side of parliament, as far as the work of the State Auditing Institution is concerned. The SRS, which is trying to find out whether the state is carrying out its prerogatives of statehood in the part of the KIM territory and is asking for specific explanations and explanations from the representatives of the government (which, of course, does not get), cannot be the culprit because the State Audit Institute has not worked for ten years, from democratic changes. What is a precedent, you will agree, Mr. Chairman, is an opposition initiative to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution, so that it begins to work. I'm really glad you gentlemen are here for today's session. This isn't going to be an easy session. We're going to ask specific questions, we're going to present some of the knowledge that we've come up with, and how we're going to refer to the interviews you're giving in the media. Mr. Sretenovic himself says that the government is directly responsible that the State Audit Institute is not working because it has not provided certain funds. We totally agree with that, but today we're finally going to get an answer as to why the government didn't do it. Why did the Government have no interest in setting up and enabling the State Auditor to work, so that we can see the transparent business of all those who are budgetary users and who go under public finances. So much for that. When the debate begins, get ready, gentlemen, to give us timely answers to very important and squeamish questions. Today's topic of this session will be corruption and organised crime and, of course, whoever signs it and who in Serbia is responsible for the main tendency of Serbian society is organised crime, which is more wrong, what is being fed, and the government is only clouding the public's eyes by its intention to deal with organised crime. Here, gentlemen, the SRS will show today that it is absolutely not true. These remaining may be less than minutes I will draw the attention of Parliament and I expect Mr. Novakovic to direct this, on the basis of the members on which I have called, the speaker of parliament, as regards the European Parliament resolution adopted on 15 January (President: Time). ) 2009. Since I'm running out of time, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12875	The word is Mr. Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain information from the competent ministry in order to continue to serve as MP and to protect the interests of the employees of the company "Posed" Ljig and all citizens of Ljig municipality, from which I come. Before I ask for the necessary information from the competent service of the labour inspection at the Ministry of Labour, led by Minister Rasim Ljajic, I will read segments of the letter sent by a group of employees of the company "Poda" Ljig to the so-called Executive Board of So Ljig for the public. The workers of this company addressed the competent authority of the municipality of Ljig, alleging that the body would assist them in solving the problems that have arisen. Namely, the "Winning" carries out the unsustainable terror and unbearable experience of self-chosen driving personnel. We don't understand whether all the republican laws apply to "win" or not. If so, how is it possible for a working man in Victory to receive income below 5,000 dinars, what is below the minimum profit in Serbia? During that time, management is not at the same minimum," according to the worker's letter. "How is it possible that you don't know how many "wins" there are? 52 employees were reported to the privatisation agency, of which two with high professional training. Who are these two workers? They're gone. The inspection says that Victory has 14 workers and 43 engaged through a youth cooperative. What are the rights of workers engaged through a youth cooperative? Not at all. They're just making contributions to similar colleagues. The payout is conditioned by the adoption of a photocopy of the ID card. It was a method for extra workers to lose their jobs. If it were in accordance with the law, it would be done like that everywhere. The insurance application came only after the inspection order. We, engaged through a youth cooperative, have been told that we will be registered for a certain time when a job is concluded. What kind of company doesn't have any employees engaged in indefinite work hours? That's all thanks to us for getting "win" out of bankruptcy. Who's gonna get a job for Victory? V.D. The director who comes by the Victory once or twice a week? Perhaps his associates who have made good use of their obedience? - "The workers of Victory" from the League ask. Workers further state in their letter that malversions are covered up in a three-way driving frame, where they have only high and elementary school. Since the privatisation of the company "Posed" from the League was carried out after this letter of workers, more precisely on 27 December 2005... (President: Time.) ), just one sentence, and "Poddu" bought by Želimir Jolovic, brother of arrested lawyer Nemanje Jolovic, who was designated as one of the organisers of the bankruptcy mafia, I ask the competent Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide me with answers to the following questions: 1. If so, how many times has the labour inspection carried out since 27 December 2005 controlled the application of labour relations regulations in the Ljig-based company? 2. What inspection of the work carried out in the controls has been established and what measures have been taken to protect workers' rights in working relationship with the Ljig-based company?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12877	The word is made by the MP Dragan Stevanović and by Milorad Krstin and Petar Jojic and Marina Ragus and Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have just taken advantage of my rights under the Rules of Procedure and asked some questions concerning southern Serbia, in particular the Bujanovac municipality, and now I will only draw attention to the public and the Government of the Republic of Serbia again, in another context, to the Pcinj County and the Pcinj District municipalities. I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to forward my question to the competent state authorities and I expect an answer. Once, in a debate on the agenda, I asked this question. Of course, I didn't get the answer until today, and now I would use my business right to get that answer. In 1999, in the aggression of NATO and NATO member states, states that have recognised the independence of KIM, states that today provide full logistics for the formation of an army, so-called. The states of Kosovo, a country which, unfortunately, define the strategy and policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the government that finance the newspaper that is advertised by the military and so on. Kosovo states, in southern Serbia, have fired about three and a half thousand bullets in the Bujanovac, Vranje and Presevo municipalities. That means somewhere around a thousand, a thousand and a half kilos of poor uranium is present in the space of these three municipalities. The fact has dramatically changed health opportunities in southern Serbia, especially when it comes to malignancies and cancer. Of course, the state doesn't talk much about it (I don't know why, I might be able to sense it), but I would ask the competent state authorities – to what extent did this fact and the presence of the poored uranium in these three municipalities change and affect the deterioration of health opportunities in southern Serbia? On the other hand, I am interested – how much will the Serbian State Ministry define the funds in the coming period and how will it deal with the recovery of the terrain, given that it takes over hundreds or thousands of years to naturally explain it? Of course, I'm interested – have the competent state authorities made an environmental impact assessment? What are the odds? What is the status of the environment in southern Serbia? Who is doing this and will in the coming years be able to gain protection in this sense from the state, that is, will the state of Serbia provide in 2009 and in the coming years for citizens of southern Serbia the lives of a 21st-century man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12879	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, I've reported by way of an article. 225 and 226. There are two ways for the MP to come up with some information from the ministry, which is to ask a parliamentary question in writing and hand it over to the office or here, behind this pay phone. Since 24 October, since the SRS parliamentary group has raised these problems over the lease of state agricultural land, irregularities, illegal corruption and crime, I have finally received an answer, but it concerns those long-term and non-refundable loans. In fact, I didn't get an adequate answer. I repeat, since 2004, grants have been shared, and only members of G17 plus and DS continue to receive them. I asked for a reply from the Minister at the Second Session of the Second Regular Session on 24.10.2008, and I received it on 25.12.2008. In this response, however, there is still no record of who received grants for the development of Serbia's agriculture. It is widely told here that short-term loans are obtained, as if I don't know how these loans are obtained (I'm not a member of the board, thank God, but I have more mandates), and then long-term loans, explaining that only 104 entities or persons were credited from the Fund for Serbia's Development in 2004, in 2005 and none in 2006. In 2004, 684, in 2005, 1,653, in 2006, 1,190, and only 159, were paid through banks. It says what Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic was like. There's no record of these non-refundable loans. I sent a question last week to the office, in writing to get what are the names and last names or legal persons who received these grants in 2007 and 2008 and long-term loans in 2007 and 2008. I'm not just looking for numbers, I'm interested in getting us names and last names in the districts and what legal faces got us. Then we'll go out for a pay phone and say -- here, you see, it's not true that only G17 and DS get those grants. And, respected Serbian citizens, these loans range from 20,000 euros to 150,000 euros. (President: Time.) Here we go. Fifteen more seconds. I got the same answer from Dr. Sasha Dragin. In his analysis and the brochure he wrote, he said - of the 334 owners, who received grants in 2006, at as much as 182 were unintendedly spent. Citizens of Serbia, you see the money being spent from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12881	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12882	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, these are no ordinary questions. This is not a question that is not interested in a broad circle of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question and ask the Ministry of Agriculture for a notice – is the law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages used in practice? This is closely related to the prices of livestock products, meat prices. Lately, Serbia has been having major problems and our citizens are exposed to such wilding prices when it comes to agricultural products. What's this about? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the return of mornings and pastures was passed in 1992. You'll allow me to quote, Mr. Vice President, without including me in time, please. Let the citizens be informed, because they were indeed denied to be informed of their rights, which is also in the interest of the Serbian states. Article 1: ''The rural urns and pastures which have become social property under the Law on the Declaration of the Universal Property of the Agricultural urn, pastures and forests, property of land, urban and similar communities, as well as of landscape (border) property of municipalities ("Official Messenger of the NR of Serbia", No. 1/48 and 98/55) return to the use of villages under conditions and in the manner laid down in this law. The subject of a return to use within the meaning of Article 1 is the mornings and pastures which, on the day of entry into force of this law, have a property of unprocessed agricultural land, regardless of whether they are from the moment of confiscation (Be careful, this is very important for rural environments and for households, for farmers, cattlemen in particular. ) until the moment of entry into force of this law changed culture, i.e. purpose. It doesn't matter. They could have taken her in, but they're bound to bring her back. ) The pastures, within the meaning of this law, are also considered forest lands which are at the moment of entry into force of this law by culture pastures.’ Article 3 of this law states: ''... The procedure for returning mornings and pastures to the use of villages is being initiated at the request of the citizens of the village... '"(President: Time. I'll finish, just let me have two more sentences, because I quote. '"... The act of returning the mornings and pastures to the villages for use brings the congregation of the municipality... '". I ask a question and ask for an answer – how many local self-government is, i.e. Serbia's municipality initiates a procedure to return pastures to villages and citizens for use? Because that is the only way this law can live and be applied in practice. I will quote another sentence, from Article 4: ''The current users of the morning and pasture are obliged to teach the mornings and pastures to villages for use within 15 days of the day of justice... '". So, ladies and gentlemen, this is hundreds of thousands of acres. For this reason, we must insist that citizens and farmers, farmers, first of all livestock products, be able to return to them the property guaranteed by law by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12883	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12884	Mr. Novakovic, I'm running out of time. I'm going to have to address the Committee on Gender Equality because you've just demonstrated discrimination against women. You've allowed Mr. Jojic overruns of minutes and 16 seconds, and you've even shorted my time last time. So that I don't waste any more time, I answer, therefore, on the basis of an article. 225 and 226, primarily 226. I demand the president of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic's Assembly to act urgently on the following issue, and after the explanation, you will understand that most MPs are prevented from working unless we get timely explanations of exactly what is happening within the European Parliament. We are witnessing the growing popularity of the European Union among Serbian citizens (this is now official data available in the media), and one reason is that the European Union's policy is a conditionality policy. What happened on January 15th of this year in the European Parliament is not astounding, even if certain EU member states, led by Washington and the Brussels administration, are conducting an orchestrated policy against the Serb people. We therefore know, we believe, we have had this experience, somewhere and we have compassion with the authorities in Serbia because you have found yourself almost in an impossible situation. The exit from this situation is only one, given the new circumstances. We used that exit in 1999. Because they defended the Constitution-guaranteed political system, sovereignty and territorial integrity, the whole Serbian summit is in front of The Hague. Well, it's already been seen. What we think has to be reacted to is a resolution on genocide, on the callogenicity, in Srebrenica. We also spoke there some time ago, so Serbian Radical Party MPs, that Serbia's stance on the Bosnia and Herzegovina genocide suit was completely wrong. We have completely unpreparedly answered this historic issue by not actually talking about genocide, i.e. a crime that took place rather than genocide, and here, within the framework of the campaign against the Serb people, the European Parliament adopted a resolution saying, among other things, that 8,000 Muslims were killed, that the forces of the Bosnian Serbs, led by General Mladic, a paramilitary unit, including the parapolitan Serb units that came from Serbia's territory, were involved. The resolution also recommends that all parliaments, especially the Western Balkans, support it. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this is a historic disgrace, that this must be answered as soon as possible and that the government's management team, which also has the support of certain EU member states, must finally ask the European Parliament the question of genocide over the Serb people. So, Mr. Novakovic, recognising your sense of topical and historical importance, I expect you to inform Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic as soon as possible. The Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian public expect timely action on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12885	Thank you, too. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225 and 226, and I ask the President of the Assembly to urgently bring someone responsible for the foreign policy issue, primarily the Minister, or the President of the State (because he is about a hat and a mold for everything that is happening in Serbia) and that here, before us, MPs, answers a few questions. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, from Kosovo and Metohija as a political issue that you will address thanks to your friends from the West the moment you take over the levers of government in the country and put away the hated, hateful regime, as you said then, until these days the last institution representing the statehood of the KIM was built, it was only eight years ago. In the Kosovo Parliament, you, gentlemen of the 'Yellow Coalition', took a heartful part, some as MPs in the Shiparian Parliament, some as ministers, because at least two ministers had. We had a chance to hear Mrs. Petkovic say -- yes, I was an MP in the Kosovo Parliament, and now I'm an MP here. And to no one, the woman didn't turn red. We had that Petkovic, the minister of the so-called return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. We have Bogdanovic, who was then minister of the Shiparian government, in the government of Thaci and Haradinaj, and now is minister of Kosovo and Metohija in this government. None of them blushed, at least when they came out here for a pay phone. The judiciary can't form, that's why that Eulex is there. Instead of helping you save Serbia, Europe is helping them, because for the next five or six years, the country formed on crime will certainly not be able to live. And here, these days, the formation of the Kosovo army ends. There are no more important questions for Serbia today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament than Kosovo. It's important what we're supposed to discuss. As for the Serbian Radical Party, we had the best co-operation with the Information Commissioner of particular importance and all the documentation, all the data, all the information we asked for... (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to call you back because I haven't finished thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12887	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12888	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. The SRS parliamentary group is demanding that parliament receive detailed information related to the announced countersuite for genocide against Croatia. We also demand that Minister Jeremic and the competent authorities declare scandalous foreign policy, this time when it comes to Croatia, which was led until the moment Croatia filed a lawsuit against Serbia, and then somewhat corrected. Recently, in one of the interviews, Minister Jeremic recklessly revealed what foreign policy was under way by the current regime towards Croatia. Visiting the "Key", Minister Jeremic explained that the lawsuit against Serbia was filed on June 27th this year, the same day he was invited to an official visit to Croatia. Serbia, according to him, then gave an arm of reconciliation to our Western neighbour "in order to leave behind us and the crimes on Ovcara and the ethnic cleansing of 250,000 Serbs from Krajina, but it did not bear fruit". "They only asked for public recognition of genocide," Jeremic said at the time. A very important question is - who authorized Minister Jeremic and the current government to forget crimes against the Serbian people, to forget the crime on Ovcara and the greatest crime since World War II, the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from the Krajina? Paradoxically, if Croatia hadn't decided to press charges against Serbia, Jeremic and the government would have told the Croats -- it's okay, we forgive you for all the crimes you committed against the Serb people. When it comes to the countersuit for genocide against Croatia, we demand detailed information, above all, because another deception is being carried out by Serbian citizens and an attempt to erase genocide committed against Serbs during World War II. Minister Jeremic said Serbia cannot cover the World War II genocide suit because the Convention on Genocide was brought in 1948, so, as Jeremic points out, the legal team in its suit will look back on the historic period between 1941 and 1945 and the NDH crimes. Legal experts warn that a major mistake is not to go on a comprehensive suit since 1941 and that it is absolutely incorrect that the lawsuit cannot cover World War II crimes because the Convention on Genocide was brought in 1948. If that were true, then that would mean denying the Nuremberg process. That would mean that the Nuremberg Court and the verdict are declared illegal. The court's statutes were formulated by international crimes, formulating new categories, (President: Time). ) a crime against peace, a crime against humanity, which includes genocide. The works were formulated in 1945 and applied to the entire Second World War. This is where the retroactive principle is applied. So we have a full legal basis to press charges against Croatia since 1941, according to all legal experts. So we demand to get detailed information on the countersuit (President: Half a minute. ) for genocide against Croatia, which makes up the legal team, who on the legal team deceives the public that we cannot press charges against Croatia for the period since 1941. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12889	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12890	Mr. Novakovic, when I appeal to article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you will immediately interpret that this does not specifically apply to you, but rather to the category of National Assembly president and chairman, regardless of who it is. I believe that these events, or these everyday black surprises that are clapping on us, simply force the National Assembly and the National Assembly Presidency to take part in formulating the agenda, whether it be a regular or extraordinary session of the National Assembly, to accept these current topics. Just to remind you of some details that have long known facts. Since the government, this new government, has taken the initiative on Kosovo and Metohija and taken it out of the hands of the National Assembly since 2001, which has been in the hands of the National Assembly since the adoption of the resolution was avoided, especially during 2008, and when the National Assembly, as a representative of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has taken a stand at the time to announce some EULEX mission, the government has taken full responsibility for all these bad things that are happening. You see how cruel our reality is. One day a diplomatic victory, the next day Montenegro recognised an independent Kosovo. One day of joy over Eulex, because it will take over what UNMIK and KFOR are doing, and after a few days we have a nearly rounded process of creating an independent state of Kosovo. In addition to recognising a large number of countries, especially EU member states, the formation of parliament, the takeover of the legislative authority, the attributes of force are now being obtained, thus practically completing the definition of an independent state of Kosovo, which was created thanks primarily to the passivity, consent and the fact that someone entered a story on some principles at UN level. Then it really seems painful when you hear the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija (our minister, or Thaci's minister, it may be even more precise) to yesterday at a press conference to move and say - so that's the opposite of Resolution 1244. Well, Eulex is the opposite of Resolution 1244. (President: three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12891	Please. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12892	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, despite the fact that the Commissioner for Public Information worked in extremely difficult conditions, it is one institution that works hard and with which we have (all MPs, not just SRS MPs) co-operated solidly. Of course, many other issues are important, but the issue of all issues today is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the preservation of the territorial integrity of the Serbian state. It's a question you can't put under the carpet like you're used to. Did you think that the MPs would argue again for two days, as we discussed many things, about many of your failures, about many of the works that are even on the crime line, about many of the affairs that we have opened, and then you pushed under the carpet, because it was a new affair? This can't end like that. The state of Serbia must react adequately on this issue. This isn't gonna work. You have no right, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, to imprison the state of Serbia. You have no right to house your country. We can't calmly watch you whine Serbia and its parts slowly but surely leave it to those who are increasingly interested in slowly attaching these parts to themselves. What's going on in Vojvodina? Isn't this the beginning? Isn't this a picture of what happened in Kosovo a few years ago? Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, there is not so much white in that Schengen list that will cover black banners in Kosovo and Metohija, there is not so much whiteness that will cover the ink on your cheek if you allow this process, which slowly but surely brings the end, to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12893	Thank you. The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12894	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 226, I request a notice – do Serbian diplomacy and the Serbian government take certain steps towards the next problem? During the war in BiH, there were more than 90 camps where citizens of Serbian nationality were tortured and killed. The largest camp was located at Victor Bubanj's barracks. More than 400 Serbs were detained in the barracks, including several dozen Serbian citizens, mostly captured members of the JNA. Sixty unhappinesses didn't come out of that camp alive, they succumbed to torture, while others were exchanged as severe physical and mental disabled. Why am I talking about this problem right now? Because after the end of the war in the building where the camp was located, whose walls were literally soaked with Serbian blood, the Muslim government placed, not to believe, the Supreme Court of BiH. What is even more scandalous is the fact that in that court, some judges who in 1992, 1993 and 1994 sentenced hundreds of Serbs in Sarajevo to years of prison sentences in mounted court trials and sent them to support the fines at the Vicor Bubanj barracks. Many of them were killed there, not survived. What is a scandal over scandals is the fact that certain trials are being prepared in BiH at the moment for crimes committed against Serbs. So 15 years after the end of the war. Better late than never. What's going on? There is a strong likelihood that some of these lawsuits will be handled by judges who practically committed crimes against the Serb population in 1992, 1993 and 1994. I think it would be logical for the Serbian government, especially the Foreign Ministry, to at the very least request an explanation from the government in Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12895	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12896	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on the basis of an article. 225th and 226th – what is the status of the aircraft factory "Lola Utva" in Panchev on today? Namely, the only factory for the production of aircraft in Serbia is "Lola Utva" in Panchev. That factory was founded in 1938. I can tell you that the Serbian Air Force in World War II played a significant role in defending its country, especially in World War II. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice - what is the status of this factory? This country must be ready to defend itself, it must have a military industry, it must have an Air Force capable of confronting all the enemies who attack and occupy it. Our army must prepare to disarm terrorists on its territory, to disarm occupiers and bandits who have occupied the Republic of Serbia. It won't be the first time. It is known that the Serb army has placed three empires on its knees. We can't have the only factory producing Lola Utva fighter planes shut down. The state must invest certain funds to bring the workers employed in that salary factory back to life the production of the Air Force and that the state has one capable army. Don't let that factory be shut down. That factory must also produce fighter planes in cooperation with the Russian Federation, and for that we have all the conditions, we have this factory. That is why I ask for an answer – what is the fate of this factory, will it be privatised or will the state have to maintain it and the government take responsibility and the obligation to produce modern fighter planes to defend this country? This production is necessary. These days it has proved that the state of Serbia is in a secure danger, that its territory and sovereignty are indeed at a critical stage and that we must do something about it. We have a factory, we have an opportunity, we train the Air Force and the army to defend the state and its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12897	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed the fact that in recent years the Republic of Serbia has become in economic terms the colonies of Slovenia and Croatia, especially Slovenia. Slovenians represent themselves as the great friends of Serbia and the Serbian people and as our strategic economic partners. Almost a month ago, you could read in Belgrade's daily papers a statement by the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia's Slovenian politician Jelko Kacin, who said that giving consent by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the anti-constitutional separatist statute of the AP Vojvodina would be a test of democracy of government in Serbia. That statement itself is scandalous. First of all, it is a interference in the internal relations of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand it is clear that those who advocate the Statute of Vojvodina do not actually mean anything good to Serbia. I didn't hear the Foreign Ministry react to this scandalous statement by Jelko Kacine. Otherwise, the statement itself proves more that neither Kosovo nor Metohija nor co-operation with the so-called so-called Kosovo. The Hague tribunal is not the only conditions for Serbia's EU accession. In some ways, the director of the US Peace Institute Daniel Server, who said that politicians in Serbia deceive their citizens when they say that it is not a condition for EU accession to establish good neighbourly relations with so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. On the other hand, it is clear from Jelko Kacina that Kosovo and Metohija are not the only conditions for Serbia's EU accession. It is clear that from the rapid entry into the EU, there is nothing until Serbia gives up not only the southern provinces, but also the northern provinces, the AP Vojvodina. These days in the Serbian Parliament, we discussed a series of so-called budget laws that should facilitate, i.e. make it possible to implement Serbia's 2009 budget. The current regime tells citizens that they have to tighten the belt, spend less, and here, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the Statute of Vojvodina, which many are talking about these days and are talking about both invited and uninvited, will, in fact, represent, if you adopt it here in the Serbian Parliament, an additional attack on the budget of all its citizens. The formation of such an autonomous province as is foreseen by the Vojvodina statutes will in fact represent a state in the country, there will be an even greater accumulation of administration and citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina that will financially fail. So I ask you that the Foreign Ministry answer the question of what has been done about Jelko Kacina's statement and that the Ministry of Finance declares on how many citizens of Vojvodina and all citizens of Serbia will be costing this and this statute of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12899	The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12900	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. I am asking for a notice and I am asking the authorities in the Serbian government, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior -- under which law does the prosecution in The Hague have wider powers in Serbia than the MUP and BIA? Recently, the Serbian government sent peoples information on the completion of Serbia's National Integration Programme in the EU. The document, among other things, states: The UN tribunal's prosecutors have so far provided hundreds of thousands of documents, including classified documents from the Supreme Defence Council session, the defence ministry, state security agencies, the MUP and other authorities. The prosecution of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has a general and direct insight into all archives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The same document then states: The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far freed over 500 members of the military, police and other witnesses from state official and military secrets. In this area of co-operation, Serbia provides effective assistance to the prosecution of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in finding and taking statements from witnesses and suspects, while the work titled "The Legal Frameworks of Co-operation" points out that an agreement has been reached with the prosecution of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the opening of the Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which gives a very broad circle of authority to the prosecution's representatives regarding access to witnesses and even movement and communication in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The document states that only two to three percent of the prosecution's demands have not been resolved. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to all of us that neither the MUP nor the BIA have any general and direct insight into all the archives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Then how can these powers be given to the tribunal's prosecution in The Hague? How can the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague be given powers that have no defence, although under all applicable national and international rules of defence and charges in court proceedings must be equal? I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer these questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12901	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I will give only one notice – the meeting of the president of the Assembly with the presidents of the parliamentary groups is under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. In the previous two reports, I have raised some questions concerning the south of Serbia, or the Pcinj County, from which I come. There is certainly another issue, which concerns the Bujanovac Health Centre, which has been updated just these days when some very "weird, interesting" things are happening in Kosovo and Metohija. In parallel, the subject of the budget, which Mr. Halimi opened for this speaker, is also open. Unfortunately, the fact that the state is also happening in Bujanovac, and by the end of the day we will be given full information and demands from doctors from the Health Centre in Bujanovac who have been denied some financial resources, i.e. the benefits they have received from the state so far and are ready for a "very bad reaction". I say "bad" in the affirmative sense. I think the state is acting incorrectly and it's part of a whole scenario. I'll use this afternoon's debate to bring this story to an end. It's important that the public hears that someone thinks about these people down there and that they have a chance to talk about their problems about this pay phone. Of course, the fact is that these "militant phenomena" in Kosovo and Metohija are a priority for the SRS. We will and want to insist on it both in the congregation and in the public. However, there are certainly things concerning KIM and Serbia, which have defined by its constitution that it is its inalienable part, which is the fact that the Republic of Serbia has huge assets down there. What I am interested in is the fact that the European Commission's representative for Kosovo said that in the coming period, the European Commission and the EU will work on three things in terms of the state of Kosovo, which are: economy, integration and certainly energy. As far as energy is concerned, I am interested in getting an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Energy, whether Serbia's electricity system is counting on production capacities to be provided at the Obilic Termoelectrica at KIM? Will it support Serbia's energy system? This is my first question The second question is – how many public enterprises, owned by the state of Serbia, have been unauthorizedly privatised and sold by Kosovo institutions so far, and for how many funds has Serbia been denied on this basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12903	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I'm going to request an answer from the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Namely, what's this about? It is widely known that the way in which the assembly majority was formed and this government was primarily done by the citizens of Serbia. When you did all this, you moved on, from local self-government to local self-government wherever you could. Regardless of the election will of the citizens, you tried to bring down, above all, members of the SRS who were in power in certain municipalities. That's what you tried to do in Odjak municipality, where the SRS received 45% of the votes. Otherwise, in the municipality of Odzacjanjska party, they received a total citizen confidence of 72%. Imagine how far you go, that someone, above all, thinks of DS, who has 20% of the citizens' trust, wants to come to power at all costs. The choices are what's relevant, and no one should have any effect on that. Despite all the pressures, in the municipality of Odjaks, fortunately still Serbian radicals in power, thanks to most of the members of the SPSdosna, knows what we promised in the pre-election campaigns and did not want to listen to mentors. There is a PUPS, Mr. Colakovic knows very well, where they could not put pressure on one of their committees, because he passed on to them all what Serbian radicals for PUPS in their municipality did, above all, the irrevocable giving of rooms for their work. We've helped their clubs as much as possible, and we'll certainly do it in the next period. There is currently an election coming in all local communities, and this is proof that the current ruling majority is losing more and more supporters and supporters. This is also shown by the latest research on the EU, as the percentage of our citizens who are in favour of joining the EU has fallen dramatically. Just to remind you that in these elections, which were of the 11 parliamentary seats in Bačka Gračac 9, SRS came from the municipality of Milan Čuk. (President: Time.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Novakovic. Next week, the election is in Bačka Brestovac and Serbia's Miletic. You will be informed of how many votes Serbian radicals will receive and how many citizens trust only Serbian radicals compared to all other political options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12905	The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and ask for a notice, or a reply from the competent health minister – what will happen in 2009 regarding the prevention of infectious diseases? The 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia envisions nearly two billion dinars less to prevent non-infectious diseases. However, we know that 2009 will be a year of severe economic crisis and social misery, so it is assumed that the number of infectious diseases will certainly increase in 2009. I'm particularly interested in what's going to be done at the prevention of hepatitis "A." It is an infectious jaundice, which especially occurs among the poor, or disease of the dirty hands. Last September, more than 500 people were ill in Nis, and to this day we did not get an answer as to what caused the disease. I would also like to get this answer from the minister – what caused this disease? Hepatitis "A" is an infectious jaundice, which is a very dangerous disease and we don't need to figure it out so easily, that we're not working on the prevention of this disease, because it leads to liver disease, and if not treated, it leads to cirrhosis of the liver and, which is very dangerous, it can lead to a plane outcome. There are also problems in schools in Serbia. Five hundred schools don't have hygienic knots, no toilets, no bathrooms, no kids can't wash their hands after the physiological need is done. I'm interested in whether the sanitary inspection is overseeing those schools where there's no sanitary node. On the other hand, since a large number of infectious diseases occur in kindergartens and school kitchens during the summer period, I am interested in whether regular sanitary examinations are carried out, not only for people working in those institutions, but also for the places where students are served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12907	The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Today, no one in Serbia can be calm about these events in KIM, because the security and peace of the citizens of KIM are at risk, as well as calmness when it comes to the area around KIM, in Pcinjska, Jablanic and Toplička district. It is these counties (I come from the Jablanic district) that have the highest number of participants in the preservation of the part of Serbia's KIM territory and the highest number of victims. They had the highest number of participants in the preservation of the territory, and their rights have not been achieved in the present period. I therefore advise the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take all the requirements of the participants in the preservation of Serbia's territory seriously, i.e. KiM, and to adequately solve them, as individual cases have been solved, and in this case we don't have two situations -- one, where their demands have been resolved, and another category, where these problems haven't been treated properly and haven't been solved. In the district I come from very often, the question arises – when will the government put their problem on the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12909	Thank you. For this item of the agenda, you have received Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution No 024259/07 of 24 December 2007 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution No 024259/07 of 24 November 2008, which was submitted by the Finance Committee. Mrs. Verica Radeta is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and she gets a word based on article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12910	In accordance with Article 226, I recall one of the SRS colleagues' reports when we spoke in the morning about an incredible precedent in international law, and that precedent refers to the indictment of the UN tribunal against Dr Vojislav Seselj for contempt of the court. That was funny for some DS colleagues. Of course, these are probably those who still think that the deal that Zoran Djindjic made with Karl del Ponte is the case against Vojislav Seselj in order to get him out of Serbia is the best thing Djindjic could do in his career. We, the Serbian Radicals, and otherwise we are talking about the Hague trial against Vojislav Seselj and all Serbs against whom the war is being conducted in The Hague tribunal, but this is indeed an incredible precedent, that a man charged with the most serious war crimes in the tribunal for nearly six years and that, when there is only 18 hours left to end the evidence of the indictment, The Hague tribunal, probably in its impotence, is also trying to charge Vojislav Seselj with contempt of the court. Why am I talking about this right now? Because we in Serbia have a court that absolutely looks up to The Hague tribunal. It's about the Special Court War Crimes Council in Belgrade. Two days ago, with my colleagues Jojic and Slavko Jerkovic, I attended the final part of the final words of the defenders charged with war crimes in Ovcara near Vukovar. That's when I really saw the incredible resemblance to The Hague's tribunal, from "Arise, please" when the judge comes in to everything we've heard about our associates' witnesses, who said that they committed a crime themselves, killed in the Ovcara (they are witnesses associates here, their names must be protected). I spoke to Mr. Bruno Vekaric there. No matter what I think about this prosecution and the work of a certain person in that prosecution, I normally talked to this man about some things that are now current and imagine, while we were talking, they came from some television station to Mr. Vekaric and they say, is it true that the radicals attacked the Special Court and that they made a mess there? Is there freedom in this state of Serbia, freedom for those who, with Vojislav Seselj's character, appear in all state institutions? Could it have occurred to someone to call it an incursion and emergency intervention? I must say that Mr Vekaric said that there is no talk of any intrusion, that it is true that we are present, but the trial is public, we free citizens attend and "we admire" the similarities of the Special Court and the UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12911	The word is from Mr Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225 and 226, I would like to use the presence of Mr Rodoljub Sabic, who is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to point out some of the problems this country is facing and, in particular, all those who are trying to get some information so that in some way the public is familiar with the problems facing this state, with crime and corruption, and above all with crime and corruption directly in connection with power. I would remind you that nearly a month ago I asked the MUP one question about an investigation conducted against former Minister of Trade Bojan Dimitrijevic for malversions made at the Ministry of Trade. What I know with confidence is that the results of this investigation that should be presented to the prosecutor's office and that, based on all these facts, the procedure is being stopped, directly from Boris Tadic. This is the subject of political trade because there are many people who are in power today or who have been in power before and who do not respond to these facts being brought to the public, or to get to the prosecutor's office. Although under the Law on the Accessibility of Information, the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior were obliged to provide us with this information, as many times as they have so far avoided their legal obligation. We, in accordance with the law, delivered this to Mr Sabic, he raised these questions on behalf of his portfolio, but to this day we did not get answers. As Mr. Sabic recalls, we have not received answers to some questions since 2007, although these questions under the law had to be answered by the government, since institutions are not competent. The government avoids doing that because her people are directly involved in these things. I now reiterate and warn the interior minister that he is giving an answer to the parliamentary question concerning an investigation launched against Bojan Dimitrijevic and several persons involved in serious crime and abuse of official office (President: Time). I'll finish when it comes to the Department of Commerce. There's a lot of these questions. Unfortunately, Mr. Sabic can confirm to you that the SRS is probably one of the parties that may, to the greatest extent, seek Mr. Sabic's help, precisely because we do not encounter the answers of the official institutions or representatives of the government, who avoid giving us answers. Although we do know these answers, or data, to a large extent, we ask that the institution give them to us in writing (President: Minutes). ) so that we can also inform the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the public. I again urge that something be done in this sense in order for the current government to appeal to the 'known' rights and to respond to those obligations which the law requires it to respond to, or must meet, every citizen's demands, and I think in some way (President: Minutes and a half). The assembly and MPs have an advantage. Thank you and forgive me for this extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12913	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on TV B92, on January 19th of this year, an interview was conducted with the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and, among other things, the question of what he thinks about forming so-called. Kosovo Security Forces, Boris Tadic said: "We have otherwise proposed the demilitarisation of KIM as the only way to introduce Kosovo as a single community in civilian form. Serbia does not accept and will not recognise the state of Kosovo, but it is one region of Serbia, a region on the ground of Europe that only by demilitarisation can provide security for people living on KIM. We must protect their lives. Will they be formed now? I must say that these forces," imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, "are not jeopardising Serbia's security because it is 2,500 easily armed members of a security force not even called the military". This is the official position of the President of the Republic on the formation of the so-called Kosovo's security forces, which also threaten the security of the Republic of Serbia as a whole, and especially the security of citizens living in KIM territory, primarily members of the Serb people. It is simply amazing that journalist B92 is better able to see the dangers of the Kosovo Security Force than the current president of the state, Boris Tadic. In fact, journalist B92 says: "Is it closer by, say, tomorrow, or formally the day after tomorrow, that begins with the work of the Kosovo Security Force and will be headed by Selimi? He was known as the sultan at the time of the KLA and that is something that is completely contrary to Resolution 1244." To this question, here is what Boris Tadic said -- that he believes these forces do not endanger Serbia's security, because it is 2,500 easily armed members of a security force not even called the military. The SRS asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence to answer the question – do they share an opinion with Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic that the formation of the Kosovo Security Force does not endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia? Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these days the press in Serbia is full of a statement from former KFOR commander to KIM, an Italian general who has now, after several years, witnessed publicly (President: Time). I conclude that he was an eyewitness to mass crimes committed by KLA members over members of the Serb people in KIM after the end of the aggression against the SRJ. In the context of these statements, Boris Tadic said that the formation of the Kosovo Security Force, led by former Kosovo Liberation Army commanders, does not endanger Serbia's security at least scandalous and anti-constitutional. We ask that the foreign affairs ministry and the defence ministry be heard about this statement by Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12915	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I am using my right to report to the Rules of Procedure regarding points 225 and 226. I would like to invite the current president of the state of Boris Tadic to realise that this is the behaviour of the government slowly but surely we are entering the loss of Kosovo. Citizens watching this transmission will notice that for days, months, almost six months, this left half of the MPs who are in power here simply statuses, do not participate in the most powerful topics that exist for this country. They come with ready proposals, they're apatheticly not involved in anything, and they're waiting for the government, which is obviously incompetent, which doesn't solve the main and burning problems of citizens, to come to some conclusion, some law or something. I'm going to say one more thing that's very interesting, and it's happening in this country. I'm asking the DOJ to explain the situation regarding these kidnappings of the SRS mandate. The District Court is in charge of Belgrade. The Belgrade court has deadlines in which, if the assembly of municipalities is to be missed, a fair and final decision should be made within 48 hours. The district court of justice has not made such a decision and has called for the right of those who have issued, who have lost their mandates, who have left the party on whose list they have been, to seek before a low-level court their right and to file some lawsuits against the SRS for termination, although it is known that under the Law on Local Elections, Article 47, it is well foreseen that once a blank resignation can no longer be withdrawn. For this low-level court there are obviously absolutely no deadlines, they can extend it for years, and I remind the judiciary and the minister of local self-government that in the meantime, it makes it impossible for people on the SRS list, those other potential candidates for committees who have remained faithful to their own ideology, a programme that also gave citizens votes, to come to positions and to exercise their right to be council members in municipalities. The municipalities of the municipalities are slowly, under your patronage, these coalitions at the authority they are responding to, making decisions in municipalities at the expense of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12917	The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure require notice and explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. from the competent ministries – what they have taken in response to the formation of the so-called Kosovo Security Forces, a truly illegal formation, which is being put here as a threat to peace and stability in the region? You can't defend this power by silence and drag us through the stories of light weapons because that's actually how it starts, from easy to hard. If he's not responding adequately now, I'm afraid all of this will go too far. Since July 7th, since this government was given a mandate, the only thing it has done for KIM and our builders living downstairs in the most difficult conditions is that it has legalized the stay of Eulex. It seems that all of us in KIM and southern Serbia were forgotten immediately after the election ended. Shiptari in Prokuplje have been buying apartments and houses for months. There is dissatisfaction in the Rusk area because this government corresponds to a conflict among Muslims. It suits her to create a crisis in Vojvodina because of statutes with elements of statehood. It seems to the authorities that this will make it easier for them to rule. Isn't it too nice for everyone in power, who doesn't spend the money of Serbian citizens without control, to last too long? What did Serbian citizens get in return? Did they get new jobs or just new taxes, taxes, higher prices of broadband goods, fuel collection and diesel fuel, liquid gas, phone pulses, drugs, euro jump, inflation, layoff of people from work, fraud with free shares, while the average consumer basket is increasingly expensive for many families in Serbia, and the purchasing power of citizens is getting smaller and smaller? (President: Time.) Thank you, I'll end up in one sentence. However, Serbian citizens will not allow the spiritual murder of our nation through the government's silence on non-compliance with international law in an attempt to legalise military, police, judicial and border quasi-institutions of the quasi state in an attempt at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12919	The word has Mrs. Elena Christmas - Italian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. I will take advantage of Mr Sabic's presence and his criticism, which he recently has, preparing an annual report, directed to authorities and organisations that do not meet their obligations. The question is what European standards are constantly referred to by the current government and the ruling majority in parliament when it avoids any possible fight against abuse and corruption and prevents the functioning of a control mechanism that represents the public in democratic societies. It is about a statement by the Commissioner on information of Mr Sabic's public importance, which points out that he has writtenly warned some 1,000 authorities and organisations who have not submitted reports with relevant information due to lack of discipline according to their own obligations. These reports serve the Commissioner as the basis for a yearly report on the application of the law, which he submits each year to the Serbian Parliament. These bodies and organisations avoid providing the public with relevant information on their own work, although the law obliges them to do so. In a statement from the Commissioner's cabinet, it is high time that the Serbian government activates supervisory mechanisms that will, in addition, ensure that those who violate the Law on Free Access to Information and do not respect the Constitution and the law guaranteeing public rights for this and bear responsibility. Mr. Sabic could inform us if there is any movement in this direction. We also ask the competent authorities to inform the MPs and the public – what will they do to enable this type of control mechanism to function? In what way will those who do not meet their obligations be held accountable, and when in practice, rather than just a declaration, will the current authority activate mechanisms to combat abuse and corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12921	Thank you, too. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break one hour to 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Good afternoon, we'll continue our afternoon work. According to Business, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, for three years now, it's about how I've been pointing to the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian public one of Serbia's most incredible property robberies. Today I received information that the man I called for by name and last name, whom I asked to enter the institution in which he works, UBPOK and the financial police, to have experts establish the business of that house (until today it did not happen) appointed president of the Management Board. It's about flight control and the famous Stankov. It's just amazing how much the Serbian government is dying. It's simply the eyes of the citizens of Serbia. I remind you of the blatant spending of state money by Stankov, I remind you of the creation of some seven repeaters, seven stations. Once, Yugoslavia, the big one, had only two radars, and now there are seven. It's just amazing that no one has ever seen that this same Nikola Stankov, besides a rich ergele (I think that richer than the ergel some MPs have here) are very expensive, luxurious cars, which change to six months and buy a new one, besides buying motor sleds, that he is visiting the only radar (for which, otherwise, they may need sledges, but which from bombing to today is not operational because NATO does not allow this radar to be used), it's just amazing that the Serbian government continues to place such a man in this very responsible place. I warn the Serbian government that the SRS MPs will prepare for one of the next sessions as we have prepared for the session when it comes to the director of the Belgrade Airport and all the dirt of Nikola Stankova we will present and force the government to react in this direction. I understand and perhaps the emotional charges of you from DS, given that his wife was the head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic (I am finishing, only two more sentences), I understand that also because of his qualifications (he is by the profession of husband and Biljana Stankov) you simply cannot separate yourself from such people, but you will eventually have to. The Serbian Radical Party will prepare complete documentation on thefts, criminal acts, thievings and marifets of Nikola Stankov and I think that after that, when the citizens of Serbia are familiar with everything that has happened and what is happening in Flight Control, you will have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12924	Two long sentences. Thank you very much. The word is by MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain information from the Ministry of Economy in order to continue to serve as MP and to protect the interests of the employees of the company "Posed" Ljig and all citizens of the Ljig municipality from which I come. Before I ask a parliamentary question, I'll introduce you to certain facts. The company's production and transport company, furry and textile confection "Podda" from Ljiga was privatised on 27 December 2005, when auction sales were held at the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia. The company was then bought by Želimir Jolovic, a natural person, at a sale price of only 6,100,000 dinars, while the starting price was 5,925,000 dinars. There may be nothing here that would have been disputed if "Win" had not been sold at a lewd and shameful price, which is far below the company's market value, but since the buyer was Želimir Jolovic, brother of arrested lawyer Nemanje Jolovic, who was designated as one of the organisers of the bankruptcy mafia, then it is clear in which bush lies the rabbit. It is known that the bankruptcy mafia with a foothold in Belgrade's Trade Court has robbed and destroyed the property of many social enterprises that the citizens of Serbia have created for decades, so the case of privatisation of the "Podja" from the League by the Jolovic brothers' empire is nothing new for the citizens of Ljig municipality. Because of the public in Serbia, workers and citizens of the League, I must stress that the company "Winning" was founded in 1960. At the time of privatisation, apart from the property in machinery and equipment, the area of all production halls was 4.344 square metres, while the area of the plant's land was 9,400 square meters. If we take into account that the average rate of the euro according to the National Bank of Serbia on 27 December 2005 was 85.7 dinars, then it is clear that all the assets of the League were sold for only 71.178 euros. Such a price is embarrassing and humiliating for all the workers of "Winning" and the citizens of Ljiga, who know that "Winning" property is worth far more than Jolovic paid. On behalf of the "Winning" workers, who have been cheated twice so far, once they've enrolled in the "Winning" actions, and the second time when they've entered actions from Mladjan Dinkic's pre-election promise, I want to ask the MP's question to Dinkic's economy ministry -- which firm has carried out an assessment of the capital of the company "Winning" from Ljig, how much is the value of the company's assets and what was all the assets of the company subject to an assessment before the privatisation process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12926	Thank you. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic. You're giving up? Thank you very much. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group Progress Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of Parliament. I would like to inform you that the MP groups Advanced Serbia and DSS have authorised them to be represented by Ms. Jorgovanka Tabakovic, the Prosperity Group, Serbia and Mr. Radojko Obradovic, the DSS parliamentary group, on this agenda. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution. Does National MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, MP group Forward Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12927	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, I will present the position of Parliament's Forwards Club to Serbia on the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution and I will immediately say that we will be abstained when we vote on this Rules of Procedure. Not because we have huge objections to the Rules of Procedure itself, but because the law from which the Rules of Procedure arises has a number of shortcomings which can make it impossible for one who, on behalf of the State Auditing Institution, does this job without it being guilty, for several reasons. I wonder if a party-profile authority can preserve the honor of the profession, or whether those with the highest titles and licenses, which the parties have proposed, and only formally through the board, will have the professional honor of making things signified by illegal or incorrect in reports and in places where they do control. My greatest fear and reason for our reservation that we will be restrained for this Rules of Procedure is that they are so broadly defined that they simply have to compromise the effectiveness of this organ's work. But I sincerely hope that you, Mr. Sretenovic, as the first man of this institution, with the courage to set priorities for yourself, avoid the trap in which you are drawn into the very breadth, by the law defined, of the work you have. The state audit institution should deal with control: National banks, political parties, all funds, public enterprises, international aid and donations and control of all natural and legal persons having any kind of business relationship with any state authority or public undertaking. It is clear to everyone that you should have superhuman abilities and a huge number of people who are employed or those you will engage in contracts so that the expectations that the public has from you and those powers that the law has defined for you can be fulfilled at all. So I have no doubt about any individual at all. But I don't think it's by any chance that it's this broadly defined jurisdiction of the State Auditing Institution, because the inability to meet these obligations can at any moment serve the political parties that these people have proposed to accuse them of ineffectiveness and as such shifts from where they are located. God forbid this happens to an existing composition of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. It's a well-known syndrome to keep you busy so you don't see what's most important, but that's why I'm expressing hope that you, and I'm concluding that by starting with budget control, you really have the strength, and you have our support, to define priorities and start working so that the State Auditing Institution doesn't be defamed by failure in public. Even if you achieve the job that your law defines and allows you to do it, I fear that in that second step we will not experience a joint failure, depending on whether someone will be responsible for the illegal spending of money in the public sector, and according to your report. If no one answers, the question will be asked what is the purpose of the State Auditing Institution. In order not to repeat the practice where irregularities have been established under the Public Procurement Act, where one of the courts, when he entered into the evaluation of that illegality, has reduced his criminality to a warning because the fine for the offender would be difficult, because it is a state body, so we protect the state by not punishing the person on behalf of the State. Croatia has already faced this problem and this is a danger that is realistic even above the future results of the State Auditing Institution in terms of a certain penalty for the person who illegally disposes of public funds. I have a general remark on the time when the law was passed and the solutions that were defined in it because the authors of the law were more guided by the fact that we look like the world, that we have law and that we are no different from others, just because we have this institutional assumption that we control the spending of public funds. However, the essence of our actions, as responsible countries, as regards EU entry, as regards control and this law, which we as the last state (accounting for countries in the environment, the EU and the world) have established: whether we need to control the spending of public funds because others are doing so or because we care about every public collected tax and funds for our own sake, giving an example of responsible spending of public funds. So, not because of the reputation system, not because others do, but because this is the only way to deal with corruption as the worst form of public spending, but also by illegal spending of public funds. I ask the public, please, that experts do not exaggerate expectations when it comes to the State Audit Institution in terms of the scope of controlled entities. You won't be able to make it to every public enterprise, but if we all agree that the fish stinks from my head, if the budget, which is the starting point, and the place where they start and the money and they show up, and the money being poured in and the way it's being spent, you'll be in control, but also in punishment, or by moving responsibility for those who, in the name of the state, spend money, give others a good example, or what our people would say "scaring sheep." So, fear of possible and certain punishment for anyone who doesn't spend money properly should show you how to do your job. Does the addiction you have in the financial sense and providing the conditions to do so allow you to do so? The answer is no. The wages you've been defined, the funds at your disposal, they don't allow you to do that. On behalf of the Prosperity Club, Serbia is truly grateful to Mrs Dragutinovic for the adoption of amendments to the use of space in state property, where the government is responsible for determining the priorities of use in terms of -- a state audit institution is important to us, it cannot sit in a free room in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what I was led to, and that was the explanation of the amendment the moment I submitted such an amendment. I really expect that what you don't have at the beginning, the height of your salary, but you can't have them because they're determined by the president and vice president of the Assembly... And let the public hear that they are extremely small. When your auditors compare, what should be accepted, and paid by commercial auditors, do you know what the pay ratio is? The auditor at the State Auditing Institution should have between 80,000 and 90,000 dinars, top authorities, and the salaries of commercial auditors range from three to 5,000 euros per auditor. So now you see the motivation to do this job and whether we need an institution like this to provide conditions for working in a spatial, institutional and financial sense, or we're going to leave them to work on their own conscience. It's not a good state that doesn't have an institution, but it depends on the will and conscience of individuals. I especially want to draw attention to the following. If you're wondering what the job of the State Auditing Institution is, I'm going to tell you in yesterday's pension story case, the possibility of them increasing, how can we argue, and there are allegedly undeniable data. Those who say they have no final accounts have been notified. We, as MPs, got two -- for 2007 and 2006. We haven't really discussed them, but we have some information that we can see what's planned and what's realized. When you compare the plan, the 2006 and 2007 budget, you meet at least two startling data, how much money is intended as the transfer fund for pension and disability insurance and data that officially came out of the same government that gave the final account. In 2008 there were to be 380 billion dinars for pensions. Of which, according to these figures, 104 were to be channelled from the budget, such as the transfer (so one-quarter of pensions are financed from the budget), aimed at these purposes. When you open that little book called the final bill and the plan, you come up with a difference of over 20 billion dinars. How can that happen? - You're wondering. I'll explain it to you on the case of the MPs. From 2006 to 2009, 70 million dinars are budgeted more than they really need. It's an adjective, so-called paushal, which is 30,000 dinars, times 250 MPs, times 12 months and plus tax -- is 138 million dinars. The budget, as a plan, says 210, and the realisation says what is really paid - 138 million dinars. I'm informing the citizens that 70 million dinars in 2007, and in 2006, that 30 million difference, at the end of the year, when we don't get paid, is going somewhere. I ask the MPs where 70 million dinars are written with MPs, and they return to the government to do with them who knows what. What about the 70 million problems we've seen, and how much is it we don't see, because we don't have a final bill, e.g. for 2008, what do we have no record of what the final account of the funds and everything that is financed from the budget is? – we will ask the State Auditing Institution to answer that question. What is called the responsibility of an economist, including my colleague Vujadinovic, who explained yesterday the relationship between pensions and wages, says that even a completely wrong picture in public is being presented in part. Mr. Vujadinovicu, compared to what - pay? Is it Swiss or what model, until what month, at what time? The president of the state has the right to say - my team says. My colleagues who are not economists have the right to say – I am not an economist, this matter is not close to me, I do not understand it, they told me. But, you, me, the State Auditing Institution, we must not sacrifice professional honor because of political points, even when we share the truth. The whole of the data, if it were to know whether pensions, those 10% increases, were financed from some private funds or were the result of greater expertise from this government or better management of funds, would be possible only if we had a comprehensive report from the State Auditing Institution and I expect it from it. But the least I expect you to say is that this pension adjustment is the result of the fifth and sixth revision of the IMF, which then sought a new bankruptcy law, the change of the basis of the pensions of that system, but also the amendment of the Privatisation Act, which is bad anyway. Maybe you can tell me -- they were good legal solutions, but they were abused in practice. I expect these abuses to be revealed from the State Auditing Institution, and today I wonder what these new requirements are from the IMF that they are silent about. Only 1.5% of gross social product deficits and structural reform are said. This structural reform has led to this level of employment that we have today. But you didn't tell us that this IMF sold 403 tons of gold on May 28th because of its liquidity, so it could help us. Whether it will help in our favor or in favour of the creditors who founded it - that's their problem. It is ours not to do the necessary measures in their interest and by order, by pressure, but for our own benefit. When I say that the State Auditing Institution should have financial conditions to work, I expect that if it compares itself with the Assembly, and the Assembly has these conditions for work, not that the Executive Authority grants it costs and work, because nothing cancels the freedom of man as a lack of money for life or its limitation. I expect you to solve all the possible problems that you will encounter better than it says in your article. In the 47th and 49th of this Rules of Procedure, where you say in article 47 that you will publish your opinions in manuals and journals. And by what criteria? First someone else, then someone else. In these little things, favoring can be a bad example of respect. If there is not a consistent rule of banning competition from the labour contract, where privileged information is being misused, so we had the Djelic case, so we have many cases, why did you say so gently - that the one who worked at the State Auditing Institution cannot abuse the data that he came up with by doing this job? It doesn't say how long, it doesn't say how he'll be punished if he abuses that data. So, if you're fighting for the legality of spending, you have to go from yourself. You'll have our support in that, but when you show that you deserve that support. At the moment, Serbia's forward parliamentary club has come down to abstention under the rules of procedure. Thank you. (For the entire time speech by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12928	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. On the basis of Article 85, we will continue the work and after 1800 hours, until the debate is concluded on the agenda. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12929	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to object to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I wanted the National Assembly to really be a place where 250 people's representatives sit, not a pantyhose or a nun. Please, under Article 103(3), provide me with the conditions to speak and turn off the time until you provide me with the conditions. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12930	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Nikolic to uninterruptedly expose what he has to say, in silence. (People's MP Tomislav Nikolic waits for a pay phone, and SRS MPs continue to bang on the bench. ) Since I hear the noise, I can't identify the individual who's responsible for disrupting the speaker's work, based on Article 111, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, which means 15:45 hours. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: What noise do you hear? I don't hear anything.]] [[After break – 15.45]] Good afternoon. Let's try after the break to keep working where we left off. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12932	Where shall I go? Allow me to vote, Chairman, so I'll make my choice. (Don't, Todorovic, your new shoe is going to fail.) I don't want to talk and don't turn on my time. Let's get this straight once if there are MPs in the first and second order. Why do you allow noise to be made in the congregation only when advancers speak? I'm not getting off the phone until the noise's over. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12933	Of course there are no MPs of the first and second order. I am also able, as Mr Markovic would say, to re-apply my appeal to ensure full silence so that we can hear you uninterrupted and thank the MPs for their cooperation. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12934	So, I'm reporting... (SRS emissaries continue to bang on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12935	Obviously, I'm not in a position to hold a session while you're talking, so I'm going to set another break of 10 minutes. I have now spoken with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who will come in in the meantime, and I think it will probably be resolved at the highest level. I'm setting a break by 4:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12936	Gentlemen, I've been carrying out my early congregation duties and I've been informed there are problems. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: No problem at all, believe me. Mr. President, there were no problems during your absence. ) I would ask the MPs of the SRS Group to allow Tomislav Nikolic to speak. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: there was no one to prevent him from speaking.) I really ask you to give the greatest effort to make the congregation work. Don't put me in a position to punish you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: But for what? He didn't even want to say anything. Why did he keep his mouth shut? ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic. Don't knock. Please don't knock.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12937	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for your authority and influence, but I would still like to wait for silence. (SRS emissaries continue to bang on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12938	Please, don't make a circus out of the assembly. Serbian citizens really don't deserve that. Please allow Mr. Nikolic to speak. Mr. Nikolic, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12939	I'll keep going, but if you think I'm breaking up a hundred times while they're banging, I don't really think about it anymore. I don't play in this congregation, I do my job here, people don't have bread to eat. (SRS emissaries continue to bang on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12940	We can't bring in the investigative organs, see who's banging his legs. It's really not right, don't. These are the relations between the former and current radicals, it is not good for Serbia to pass on to the assembly atmosphere, the work of the assembly, the dignity of the assembly. Please allow Mr. Nikolic to speak. Certain authorities and instances of this country will answer the questions you have raised and I really ask you not to put me in a position to interrupt the work of the Assembly, to apply certain penalties. It's not right for us to do it that way. We have a commitment to Serbia's parliamentary life and, if you will, democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12941	If it's a circus for you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it's not for me. Please either continue in peace or interrupt this session, try to consult to ensure the dignity of the National Assembly. This really doesn't make sense. I know that you, as a psychiatrist, fully understand this behavior, but it's not meant for the Rules of Procedure. And maybe, in fact, it's best for me to be punished. Maybe it's a solution for me to be punished because I can see both my arms and my legs. (SRS emissaries banging on benches all the time. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12942	Mr. Nikolic, I know the ability of your concentration. Please say what you wanted, I know you can say. I understand your desire to provide you with conditions as well as all other MPs, but believe me, all MPs and citizens concentrate even more to hear you than they would otherwise. Mr. Nikolic, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12943	Is that what you want to play, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12944	I'm really going to do it under Article 111.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12945	Let's first go by Article 103, he's a smaller regular number. Let's make sure I speak in peace. Here, as the gentlemen now look like the messengers of the people. So, I just came out to... The SRS are banging on the bench again. Don't ask me to talk anymore, I won't. It doesn't make sense. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12946	I'd like to introduce you to Article 103: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure." Because of this third attitude, I read to you: "During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw or interfere with speakers in any other way than any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech." I really appreciate that during Mr Nikolic's speech, MPs are obstructing the speaker and thus obstructing the freedom of speech. I'm really asking you not to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12947	Since Mrs. President has asked you to... (SRS emissaries banging on benches again. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12948	I'm taking a half-hour break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament... You know what, Parliament's workblock is obvious. It is clear that the essence is the conflict of former and current radicals and it is clear that Serbia needs to see it. I don't have another option until I try to make another deal with the heads of Parliament. I really don't have another option. [[After break – 16.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Mr. Markicevic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12950	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs have just finished consulting the heads, or deputy heads of parliament. I still believe that we are all aware of the situation in which our country is located and the moment we all live, and that we all have equal, each according to our own political option, care for this people and citizens. Therefore, in order to allow the KIM Committee and the Committee on Security to meet as soon as possible and to allow the competent ministers, as the president has promised, to come to the Assembly and discuss the most important topic that currently plagues all citizens of Serbia, please, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as our friend, as our MPs here, still, that today, until the end of this agenda, do not report to the word and thus allow us to bring today's agenda to an end, and tomorrow and the day after that, to have committees in charge and to discuss the most important topic for the citizens of Serbia, which is KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12951	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Radojko Obradovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, has the word. He's not in the O.R. He'll probably use that right later. Mr Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12952	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this country, unfortunately, cannot be helped by any single institution, nor by this audit committee, which, although formed, has been deliberately obstructed by the official authorities with only one goal, which is to prevent it from working. Because, as it is, formed by the parliament of the Serbian Parliament, it would probably have to come out with all the facts relating to crime and corruption in this country. And Serbia cannot move forward as long as the biggest problem exists in Serbia, until the issue of corruption and crime involving individuals from the highest structures of government is resolved. And these are indisputable facts. What's particularly interesting is I'm going to show you in case the government can't in some way be just by not having enough information, that there's not enough data, because they're supposed to be dealing with crime in their own ranks. I will show you on the basis of documents and on the basis of one of the most famous cases of serious crime and abuse of official office by top state officials that one of the biggest robberies in Serbia has been committed. You're all more or less familiar with the National Savings Bank case. Remember, when it was founded, how they stood in line, and everyone in front of TV cameras, they set out to invest in the National Savings Bank and, as far as I know, the then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was deceived. When he realized it was a fraud, it was too late. The moment there was a problem within the government, you remember those famous statements, "Laki's a little nervous," when after the 2003 elections, there was a change of government, some procedures were launched to investigate everything related to the National Savings Bank. I have to tell you, this job is well done. Here is the report by Serbia's MUP, UBPOK, since 24 February 2004, received at the office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on July 12th 2004, under number 07-5135/04. This report is quite accurate when it comes to fraud related to the National Savings Bank. Mladjan Dinkic, then governor of the NBJ, was first apostrophe, then the finance minister and finance minister at the time (2001, 2002, 2003) Bozidar Djelic. Just to remind you that the National Bank issued a work permit to the National Savings Bank on 26 December 2001. The review of the first founding show, i.e. the shareholders, was at the time 13 -- "Yugoslavska Banka for International Economic Co-operation", "Beopetrol", "Jugarant Bank", "Toza Markovic", "Apatinska Pirara", "Ce Market", "DDDOR Novi Sad", "Kopalnik Insurance", "Sintelon", "Stort-Credit Co-operation", "Energoproject Holding a.d.", "Energoproject of Low Construction", and "Eurosalon" -- were the founders of the National Savings Bank. Then, at a session held on 20.5.2002, the bank decided to issue a second national savings account at a total nominal value of 180 million dinars. On that occasion, he says, the biggest buyers of the second show of action were the companies of Squadra, Pima, Principal Export-Import and the Daeners Club, all from Belgrade. The companies mentioned bought bank shares by selling foreign exchange funds to the bank from their foreign exchange accounts opened at this bank. On 13 September 2002, the bank received payments to its foreign exchange account at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow from the employer, Koprom from Vienna, amounting to 600,000 euros in favour of the Daeners Club company, with the purpose of payment of capitalisation, amounting to 600,000 euros in favour of the company Principal, with the purpose of payment - capitalisation. On the same day, an additional $600,000 in favour of the company Pima was paid under the order of Koproma from Vienna, with the purpose of the payment - an advance on goods and $600,000 in favour of the Squadra company, with the purpose of the payment - an advance on goods. The goods advance was reportedly planned for the purchase of corn and one company and another, but because the prices of corn were much higher at the time, it was not reportedly worth buying and they decided to buy for this money the National Savings Bank shares. As for the company "Pima" d.o.o., it is registered with the District Court of Commerce in Belgrade. The founders are Pluto International ltd from St. Vincent with 90% founding capital and Jelena Lazarevic and Savkovic Zoran, both from Belgrade, 10 Vase Pelagic Street, with 5% of the founding capital. "Pluto International" is registered in St. Vincent, the Grenadine Islands. The founders are Vlad Lazarevic, Olivera Lazarevic and Vojin Lazarevic, all with residence in Kotor, Montenegro. "Pima" paid an advance of $600,000 from the company Koprom in 13.9.2002. The funds were transferred to the foreign exchange account of the company "Pima" and the National Savings Bank's shares were purchased for that money. However, I say, the realisation of this 600,000 transfer job has not occurred due to the rise in the price of corn on the domestic market. The same reason is also listed in the Squadra company, but that's why Pima received shares at a percentage of 20.66%. The Belgrade firm's "Squadra" documentation found, as well as in the case of the company "Pima", that a contract was concluded with the company Koprom from Vienna on the delivery of six thousand tonnes of corn on September 6th. That's why they transferred that $600,000. And here it turns out that you couldn't do that job, buying corn, because the price went up, but for that money, the stock of the National Savings Bank was bought. On 29.4.2002, under number 175/02, a contract was concluded on the transfer of shares of the National Savings Bank between the Savings and Credit Co-operation of Independent Businessers of Serbia from Belgrade and the Express Garden. On 14.11.2002, a contract on the sale of 21 founding actions of the National Savings Bank between the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Co-operation (A.D.) from Belgrade, represented by Director Darko Cukic and Republika Srpska, represented by Bozidar Djelic, finance and economy minister, was concluded. With this decision, the Republic of Serbia has become the owner of over 21 regular management actions worth three and a half million dinars. By buying this package, the Republic of Serbia has become owner of 13.83% of the National Savings Bank shares. After the second show, the share of shareholders in the National Savings Bank changes. The Republic of Serbia has 13%, the "Pima" Belgrade 13%, the share of Jubmes Bank, the "Dinners Club" etc. The Bank's Assembly on 5th session, 27.2.2003, is reducing, and a decision on the issue of the third emissions of the National Savings Bank in the total nominal value of 300 million dinars. The session was held in the presence, take care of this -- a representative of the Republic of Serbia. Customers of the third show were companies: "Little collective" from Belgrade and "Elim" from Vienna. The purchase of shares was made on the basis of the purchase of foreign funds. (I don't read you this whole report because it would take a long time, and I'm just introducing you to some basic things. ) The company "Elim" on its non-resident account at the National Savings Bank is paying through the "Euroaxis Bank" amounting to 1.528.660 euros and empowering the bank to purchase foreign exchanges from its account and to transfer the said funds to the National Savings Bank on behalf of the purchase of third-mission shares. The small collective company is registered with the Belgrade District Economic Court under the same number, owner and founder of the "Juropen Marketing", the British Virgin Islands (all island to island), 90% of the company's founding capital is Vuk Hamovic from Belgrade. Look, after this third show, the percentage changes rapidly and the participation of shareholders in the Postage Savings Bank. Serbia remains at 10.05% of its 13% value of the National Savings Bank, but "Little collective", "Elim" Vienna, "Diners Club", "Squadra" and "Principal Export-Import" become owners 54.22%, and the Republic of Serbia has not protected its interests with any single move or gesture. It is said -- at a meeting held on 27.2.2003, where Budimir Lončar, representative of the Republic of Serbia, was also present unanimously with the decision to call for a third show of action. The final data on the success of the third show of actions with the names of customers and the amount of actions purchased were announced at the meeting of the Management Board 09.9.2003, at which the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not present because they were both on vacation. Interestingly, they were both on vacation. After the SRJ Assembly adopted a new payment law, which has transferred payment transactions from 1 January 2002 to business banks, namely NBJ, PDO, represented by Zivko Nesic, the Director General, and the National Savings Bank, represented by Bojan Stanivuković, the Director-General, concluded a business co-operation contract number 2/7-164 days 21.2.2002 in order to train employees in the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Office for Accounting and Payment, to carry out other jobs, and to resolve the social status of employees. In accordance with the contract concluded, NBJ, the PDO shall direct its training workers to the National Savings Bank. Imagine this absurd. The PDO workers, who must have had a job job for 10 years and more, are referring to an institution that has just started working, allegedly in training. He says, for training to work on counterwork with the population, with the obligation to keep workers working in the NBJ, the PDO during training. Imagine what they were up to and what they were doing. They send workers, they hold them at the NBJ, they pay their salaries, they contribute and all that, and they train at the National Savings, which is a completely private institution, which has nothing to do with the state. To what extent they were unscrupulous and what they were willing to do. It says - by the end of training, in 1.4.2002, to establish a working relationship that successfully completes the course at the National Savings. It says - according to the said contract, on 28.10.2002, the NBJ, represented by Mladjan Dinkic, Governor, and National Savings Bank, represented by Bojan Stanivović, Director-General, joined the conclusion of an agreement agreeing that the National Savings Bank used the business space of the former branch of the NBJ, the PDO taxed in the contributions of one agreement, with furniture and equipment in that business space taken over in sight, watch this - over a period of three years. In addition, the agreement defined the National Savings Bank as a business space, furniture and equipment to be used without compensation, with the obligation to pay all maintenance costs (electricity, utility). I'm surprised they agreed to pay for this, too. On 16 January 2003, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded on the acquisition of assets used by the NBJ, the PDO and staff at the Institute, which decided to designate the Ministry of Finance and Economy as a direct beneficiary of the real estate and other resources in the state environment. With this conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Serbia obliges the Ministry of Finance and Economy to submit a review of the said assets within 60 days to the Republic Property Directorate. On the basis of this conclusion, the Ministry of Finance and Economy takes a decision on the criteria for the distribution of the costs of the use of commercial buildings, which is directly used by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which was used by the NBJ, the PDO, and the Minister of Finance and Economy Bozidar Djelic makes a decision on the management of business buildings, which is directly used by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which was used by the NBJ, the PDO - Public Payments Administration and the Tax Administration. Accordingly, authorised representatives of the Tax Administration have joined the conclusion of individual contracts on the division of the costs of using business space in branches with the National Savings Bank. (President: Time. I apologize, if you can subtract from the time of the SRS parliamentary group (President: Yes, please. In order to finish, I think it's interesting, that this information is finally heard once and for all, and that you realize that crime exists, that it's been discovered, but that you're not doing anything. It says - Fund law in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 32/97. As the PDO was part of the NBJ, and this property, by law, represents funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law, state-owned immovableities may be granted for use with a fee or without compensation solely to users of immovable property in the state property. As users of this law, the public authorities and organisations, bodies and organisations of the units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, public services, public enterprises and institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic, i.e. territorial unit. No, under no circumstances could it be given to the National Bank Savings Bank, absolutely not, and this was done by Bozidar Djelic, as finance minister at the time. Article 8 paragraph 3 of this Act provides that the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall decide on the granting of the use, i.e. in the lease of immovable property used by state authorities and organisations. The proposal gives the Republic's Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, addressed by a state body or organisation. In a conversation with Dragomir Umicevic, deputy director of the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, information was received that the NBJ, the PDO did not address this directive with a request to grant consent for use, i.e. a lease of business space when closing a business space agreement with the National Savings Bank. Also, the finance minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia did not address the Directorate with such a request in terms of granting consent when making a decision on the division of the costs of the use of commercial buildings, which was directly used by the Ministry of Finance, which was used by the NBJ, or the PDO. Let me remind you of that famous duel on television, between Bozidar Djelic and Mladjan Dinkic, when the pumpkin broke, when both grandparents and grandparents were mentioned, and aunts and, remember, "Don't touch my mother" etc. But when it comes to the National Savings Bank, then not a single word. Now you understand where the 'Vojvods of Meridian Bank' came from 11m euros for shares in Meridian Bank. This UBPOK report unequivocally tells us that we are now estimating everything, that the majority owners of the National Savings Bank, which have 54.22% of the capital, six private companies controlled by the offshore company, are the founders of the four majority shareholder of the National Savings Bank of-Short Company. The founder became two shareholders, the same face, or owners are connected, even in the same address, the same rooms are used, the same phone. You know what's behind this. What is crucial is that all transactions were made through one bank, a Euroaxis bank in Moscow, and the same group of people, through an offshore company, controls the National Savings Bank and a Euroaxis bank in Moscow. The National Savings Bank was founded on December 26th 2001, and only twenty days after its founding, on the proposal of the then governor of the National Bank of Mladjan Dinkic, the National Savings Bank received a large foreign currency mandate, as well as a monopoly authority, that the only one of all Albanians is paying out debts to citizens based on old foreign currency savings. It is a sum of four and a half billion euros, whose payment is secured from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The capitalisation of the National Savings Bank was carried out only on paper, and real money remained in Moscow, which means that this procedure was not implemented to increase the potential of the Savings Bank, but only to achieve ownership of the Savings Bank. Then, on 17 March 2006, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Eurobank Director General EFG Nicholas Nanopoolos signed an action buy agreement for 35m euros. At a press conference, Dinkic said the state invested 5.1m euros in the National Savings Bank, 1.2m in money and 3.9m in real estate. It's just not said when it was done, who approved this and how the state of Serbia got this much participation, and I read you what percentage it was after the third show of action. He said actions will be paid at the highest price ever achieved in the privatisation of the banking sector. But what does the National Savings Bank have to do with privatisation? It's a private savings bank, a private bank, and it has nothing to do with the state bank. Lies, lies, and deceptions all the time. He says -- commenting on allegations of privileges for individual minority shareholders, Dinkic said all the charges on his account were purely political and that, as finance minister, the only person responsible for the capitalisation of the banking sector, and he has only been in charge since 2004. He's right about that. Prior to that, Minister Bozidar Djelic was responsible, but one day he will have to answer both. I am now also asking a parliamentary question – to provide me with a contract on the basis of which the state became the owner of 5.1m and to indicate which premises belonged to the National Savings Bank, on the basis of which the state of Serbia received a 5.1m-euro stake. He didn't just care about the UBPOK report. Here is the report by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, based on the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia number 422-8530/2003-04, where it is required to check everything related to the business, namely the work of the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time the governor of the NBJ was Mladjan Dinkic. The report was sent by the then governor of Mrs. Kori Udovicki, under the number KG No. 27. I need to read you this report, see how Mladjan Dinkic worked as governor of the NBJ. It says - foreign exchange payments in the period 2000-2002 were made on the basis of decisions by the Federal Government on foreign exchange policy and payment balance projection adopted on a proposal from the National Bank, under which foreign exchange reserves were designed and managed by the National Bank. I'm particularly undermining this with regard to the National Bank foreign reserve. I've already explained these Euroaxis-related jobs to the Bank of Moscow. Continuing on, Kori Udovicki - in line with these decisions, the National Bank of Serbia placed a deposit with Vexim Bank of Moscow, the current Euroaxis Bank of Moscow, as the only mixed-capital bank in that period, exclusively with the instructions of the governors in the form of written consent, as regards the deposit, increase and withdrawal, i.e. the amount, manual and currency structure of deposits. This is Kori Udovici explaining what the foreign reserve target is. It says - the primary goal of placing foreign reserves is to ensure their safety, and the important criterion is their liquidity, and only in third place is their rentability. This is important - the characteristics of Euroaxis Bank do not meet internationally accepted standards through which these criteria are implemented. It does not have a rating, and its size is in complete dissatisfaction with the size of the deposit held by the National Bank of Serbia. Therefore, keeping the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves in Euroaxis bank was not in line with the criteria of cautious and responsible business of modern central banks. Holding reserves beyond these criteria raises the question - why or for what purpose are these funds held at Euroaxis Bank? (For which, and for what purpose, I have read to you, about the purchase of shares in the National Bank Savings. ) The existing documentation on the placement of the National Bank of Serbia in Euroaxis bank is a duplicity, and the existing documentation on the further placements of the Euroaxis bank is interrupted from 1.9.2. Furthermore, the National Bank of Serbia does not have a document on any commitment by the Euroaxis Bank or the NBS to further foreign reserve payments that have been deposited in the Euroaxis Bank since 22.7.2003. Euroaxis Bank has not met the current governor of the National Bank of Serbia with the existence of such obligations. However, existing documentation can conclude that at least by 1.9.2. these funds, be careful now -- reinvested in Serbia's economy, with the knowledge of the National Bank of Serbia. Such allocation of funds to central banks' reserves is completely contrary to the responsible management of reserves, for two reasons. First, reserves must be placed so that they are more isolated than any factors that can shake the business of the domestic economy, because the reserves are also used to help the domestic economy or overcome any kind of impact. So they must be available when all other assets in the country are at risk, which is of course not the case if they are reinvested in the country. Secondly, this further placeing of reserves enables the non-transparent favoration of individual economic operators or banks in the country. If that's true, I'll show you on the next document. There is no sign of the criteria that the National Bank of Serbia has run in the selection of end-users of funds or the extent to which they affected the choice. Not to read everything, he says -- finally, given that the foreign reserve placement in Euroaxis bank is not in line with the principles of the work of modern central banks, it is necessary to explain why, after taking office and determining the existence of these funds, the governor has defined their gradual withdrawal. The reason is that NBS deposits represented a very large part of the source of Euroaxis bank funds. It goes on to say -- decisions to open an account in the bank since 25 December 2002 have been made by then-Governmentary Mladjan Dinkic. NBJ accounts have been opened for the next 18 banks, where money is included as vision deposits, including the National Savings Bank, as if it were a state bank. It says - the initial state of funds on 1.1.2003 was 797 million, etc. and on 20. 4. In 2003 it was reduced to 499 million. The holding of the Central Bank's assets in commercial banks in deposits by sight is not in line with the principles of business of modern central banks. This report, as well as the UBPOK report, without any dilemma, says the state had to do its job and that all those responsible for this biggest crime, above all Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic, had to comply with the law of the Republic of Serbia. I ask one parliamentary question, to be answered – did Mladjan Dinkic send a letter to Veksi banka in Moscow, Mr. M. Mirkovic, the president, informing him that, as part of his foreign reserve management policy, he is ready to invest some of the funds in this bank, in the amount of 10 million, on market terms. You remember this previous Kori Udovici report on why foreign reserves are not being invested in such banks as Euroaxis Bank, precisely because abuse can occur. Here's a letter from Vice Governor Radovan Jelasic to the governor of the NBJ. It's very interesting, and I didn't think I could get a document like this. Radovan Jelasic probably realized that the devil had taken the joke or had not entered all the jobs yet, so he wanted to secure himself just in case. He says -- a report on the financial performance of a bank, referring to a single bank in Serbia, made up of a joint team of NBJ and USAID representatives, found that the Bank partially provided funds for the release of a minimum foreign exchange reserve at the NBJ for medium-authority from loans received from Vexim Bank in Moscow amounting to 1.25m marks. He says, in this regard, and in order to allow the NBJ to fully dispose of foreign reserves based on a minimum foreign exchange reserve, I suggest that all foreign exchange assets be transferred to the NBJ foreign exchange account at Vexim Bank in Moscow at the expense of the NBJ at one of the Western European first-class banks. Vice governor tells his party colleague the governor that Vexim Bank in Moscow is not a bank in which Serbia should hold its foreign exchange reserves. I asked a parliamentary question whether it was true that Mladjan Dinkic informed that the first tranche, i.e. the first amount, would be $10m in Veksim Bank. It was 13.12.2000, but already on 22.4.2002, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic asked Oliver Ilincic's consent, the director-general, and here he says, the agreed governor, Mladjan Dinkic, to increase the deposit with Vexim Bank to 45 million. Then 9.1.2003. now Gordana Matic's CEO also asks Mladjan Dinkic to increase the deposit to 55 million in Moscow, and Mladjan Dinkic agrees to this increase as well. Furthermore, 20.6.2003. again, the CEO of Gordana Matic asks Governor Mladjan Dinkic to increase the deposit position at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow to $60m and, normally, Mladjan Dinkic agrees on this request. Here, ladies and gentlemen MPs, black on white, not political stories, not say-telling, everything is documented, absolutely everything. This is one of the biggest crimes ever committed in Serbia since 2001, which has been investigated by the state authorities of Serbia, at a time when you are in power. Governments have changed, some would say, the aggregates weren't, but you have all the time these two people who just go from one government to another. One is now a minister, the other is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, and such a crime has been committed in Serbia. Ask yourself a question. I know that the largest number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, I can say with a list, correctly in my work, have nothing to do with this, but at least now you have pure information, absolutely 100% correct, about the robbery committed by Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic. As long as those two are in state institutions, and not that, above all, they are responsible for what they did, there is nothing from Serbia. What kind of Europe, my people, what about you? Look how the Bulgarians went. They were admitted to Europe, but because of corruption and everything that was going on, they normally shut down all their valves. You don't think they know this in Europe? They know. You think they'll accept this, that you and Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic...? I also ask Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the DS -- how does he think he's dealing with crime (he said first in his own ranks)? How can he say that after these facts concerning Bozidar Djelic, vice president of the Republic of Serbia? As long as the state authorities in charge of this don't start doing their job, there's nothing from this country. Or until the citizens of Serbia fully realize that there is not only no Europe with you, but that the country's total sunflower will continue to break. Because this is proof that you can't get the state out of this economic and social misery that we're in, that you can't deal with corruption and crime. And don't deceive Serbian citizens anymore. Start, with this case, to open up all things, start processing, and only then can you expect the trust of the citizens of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12953	Mr Radojko Obradovic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12954	Madam President, Mr. Stevanovic, Mr. President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session is extremely important for several reasons. First, by voting these two Rules of Procedure, these two acts, we will create conditions for two extremely important independent institutions to start working. Another important thing is that we have scheduled this session, practically, with the signatures of all the MPs, that the initiative came from one opposition party, that this initiative was supported by all parties and the ruling majority and all parties of the opposition. It has been shown that this parliament can do important things differently than usual practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12955	Gentlemen, Mr. Obradovic would like to speak to you. I guess we're not just sitting for formal reasons, but we're interested in what he wants to say on this subject. Please focus our attention on him and his testimony.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12956	As important as this session is, it tells us that we have waited eight years and it took five governments and four different congregation meetings to finally have a session on the basis of which working conditions are being created. How important is the state auditor speaking one of the special decisions, and it is about the protocol. Under the state protocol, the most important functions in the Republic of Serbia are the President of the Republic, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, Governor and President of the State Audit Council. According to protocol, these five functions are most important. Over the past eight years, a lot of efforts have been put into raising the capacity of the executive authority, creating numerous agencies and other bodies, through numerous education processes and numerous seminars. The most effort has been made to raise capacity and the executive power begins to function in a slightly different way. The National Assembly, the parliament of Serbia, practically remained to function in the same way as it did 10 or 15 years ago. No matter what almost every new law, Parliament's competence has been increased, regardless of what parliament has received new control functions, the organisation itself and the internal organisation of parliament, as well as the institutions that need to assist parliament, remain at the exact same level. The DRI is one of the basic institutions that needs to help us put order into public finances, but also one of the most important institutions that should help parliament perform its control functions. It's like this all over the world, there's no reason he shouldn't be here. The process, unfortunately, is going too slow. For eight years, the law was to be passed, to choose the State Auditory Institution, to adopt its rules of procedure, and unfortunately, the DRI is still missing. It may not matter too much what happened in those eight years, although it is necessary to analyze everything in order to eliminate the mistakes that may await us in the future. It is much more important in which way and what dynamics the DRI will begin to do its job. A part of the jobs to be dealt with was also mentioned by Mr Todorovic, but what is our obligation and what has not been done in Serbia practically for eight years is the final budget account. Parliament had an obligation to do so by engaging independent institutions until the DRI was established, but from the moment the members of the Council were elected one of the basic commitments, the DRI is the final bill of parliament and an opinion on the draft budget. The basic question to be answered in the coming days is when it's realistic to expect the DRI to start doing its job, to start doing the final budget account. What is extremely important is that DRI, because it is the only institution, cannot and should not replace the institutions that already exist, neither the MUP nor the prosecution, any other body that is already doing its job, but none of these bodies can analyse the efficiency of spending state money. No organ can control the purpose of spending state money. It's a government audit task. When she's ready to do that, it's largely up to us. Practice in the world has shown that no state audit without strong and unreserved support in parliament, both by authorities and by opposition parties, can do its job. What is particularly encouraging is that this session is scheduled for the signature of all MPs. This is because we can expect the DRI to have the support of all MPs in their work. The authorities will use these reports in their own way, the opposition will read them in its own way, but it is extremely important that we start getting all these important documents as soon as possible. No matter how difficult it was to reach the law, and to the members of the Council, to the Rules of Procedure, how difficult it was to reach space, it's a much easier job than the one who's waiting for us. I am convinced that the State Audit will have the support of all of us, and on the other hand, we will insist that we get quality documents that will give us much clearer insight into how the state's money is being spent. As for the DSS parliamentary group, we will support both acts. Today we're talking about the DRI Rules of Procedure. We will support the acts of the Commissioner for Information in the hope that we will have all these other acts we are talking about very quickly and that we will be able to control the work of the executive authority much more clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12957	Mr. Free Maras has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12958	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the DRI, I wanted to say a few words on behalf of the LDP on this agenda point. We are pleased to accept the DSS's initiative to bring these points into the agenda. Of course, the ruling coalition has accepted that, and I hope that this is a sign of readiness, above all, of the ruling coalition, to allow the DRI to do its job, and above all, in the interests of the citizens. Of course, the gentlemen who spoke earlier mentioned what jobs the DRI would have to do, but Mr. Obradovic noted that the DRI lacked something else to work on, which is the rooms. We have spoken from this pay phone several times and it is evident that the relationship to an institution that really has to be one of the most significant in the state is seen in the way that the ruling majority, executive power, refers to it. Mr Sretenovic, although you have been elected by one ruling majority, although you have come to the proposal of another political party, it is evident that you now have the support of all MPs and all MPs to begin your work. I know it will be difficult for you, i.e. there are assumptions that, because in private audit houses, quality auditors have large incomes, few who report, or a little bit adequate, you yourself said that you were afraid that there would be not enough quality people who would be able to do their job in the context of the audit. I think you're mistaken, for the simple reason that I believe there are a lot of honest people who do this job and who are willing to really earn a higher interest in that job and for, conditionally speaking, less resources. A moment ago, Mr Obradovic mentioned the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think we all look forward to seeing that. We look forward to seeing the final accounts of public enterprises as well. You said in one of your speeches that you don't believe you'll be able to do it this year. We all know, and you know what the reports are like, about the degree of corruption that prevails primarily in state bodies, or public enterprises, etc. And that's a big stumbling block on our European path. As long as we don't solve it, we'll be in big trouble. The basic way to solve this is to see the final account, to have the audit done in a very good way, and I guess people who will work at the State Audit Institute as professionals will be able to do that. I'm sorry Mr. Shabic isn't here, but with his great help, you'll be able to do a good job. There will certainly be pressure, and those who will be very serious, but you have 250 MPs here who will probably stand behind you every time. What we expect from you is that, in accordance with the law, we receive reports in the time periods when it is foreseen, primarily on the Finance Committee, and all MPs. We wish you a lot of success in your work. We hope that this Rules of Procedure, plus the goodwill of the ruling majority, will provide you with rooms in which you will be able to work adequately, a good selection of staff who will be employed in your institution, will allow this institution to do its job, and I am sure that all of this hall and future MPs will be able to maintain the dignity of your institution. I'm a little worried about the situation that happened the other day on the board. We chose the fifth member of the DRI, instead of the lady who resigned, and to question one of the MPs -- to which time period we choose -- those who have proposed it, the ruling majority, did not have an adequate answer, or assumed that it was on that time. I urge you to contact the Finance Committee every time you have a problem and, in the end, all parliamentary groups. We want you to do your job in the best possible way. I repeat, this is step one. The LDP will, of course, support this, as well as that other proposal on the agenda, and it is up to you whether you will be the subject of criticism for this speaker as well. That if you don't, and I hope it never happens again, you're doing the job in a way that, first of all, will be the best for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12959	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word came from Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Hope, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pop-Lazic reported to the Rules of Procedure. First her, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12960	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we had a consultation about 13.00 hours about the morning part of the session. You remember, and the public noticed, that we dealt mainly with Kosovo and Metohija. We have reached certain conclusions at that meeting with the President of the Assembly. The aim was to wait for the decision of the KIM Community Assembly, to see what conclusions they had made, and then the Assembly eventually took a stand on these conclusions. Madam President, the minister was supposed to deliver those conclusions to you and I think it would be more appropriate for you to read them than I'm going to do now, but I really think it's necessary. That's six points, and if I extend my exposure for a minute, I ask you to understand because the KIM Community Assembly expects us to make some moves. Do you mind? (President: I allow, Mrs Pop-Lazic, all the time to speak longer, especially when it is such a significant question. Here you go. Thank you very much. One. The KIM Community Assembly can now conclude that the Eulex mission has not justified its arrival. The latest developments in Kosovo Mitrovica are best witnesses. Neither the mission is neutral nor can guarantee the rule of law, as Serbs feel best. The arrival of Eulexes has prompted the departure of Unmik, leaving the consequences for the security of Serbs, and instead of reconfiguring Unmik, we expect it to be revitalised, even in those places where Serbs live. 2. The realisation of the six-point deal is not even in sight. That is why it is important for Belgrade and Unmik to turn this promise into action more urgently. Talks on this topic with Pristina, as the West wants to specify Belgrade, for us Serbs at KIM are absolutely unacceptable, because this would mean a kind of recognition of Kosovo's independence. Only talks with Pristina can be status. 3. The KIM Community Assembly strongly condemns the establishment of the so-called so-called KIM Community. Kosovo armies directed by the NATO Pact and the Western countries. We expect the authorities in Belgrade to launch a fierce political struggle to adjudicate such a decision. By keeping letters and verbal convictions, the problem is not solved. We also expect our government to demand the most energetic return of up to 1,000 Serb soldiers and police officers to KIM, foreseen under Resolution 1244, thus improving the security of Serbs in the southern Serbian province. 4. The KIM community assembly requires the government in Belgrade to remove Oliver Ivanovic and Radu Trajkovic as a result of its anti-state political action. Unargumented and unproven claims that Serbs are throwing bombs at Serbs are jeopardising the vital national and state objectives of KIM. At the same time, the KIM Community Assembly is demanding that the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament shed light on the unpleasant events and violence that took place during the New Year's holidays in northern Kosovo's Mitrovica. 5. The permanent reduction in finance towards KIM, either through salaries or investments, does not support the survival of Serbs to KIM. The paradox is that the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, regardless of the much more difficult financial difficulties, has separated more for KIM than it does today. Democratic power. It is much more important for the country's interests to build three hospitals in Gracanica, Kosovo Pomoravlje and Strpc, rather than ski resorts across Serbia. Six. The KIM Community Assembly invites the president of the Assembly to attend the anniversary of the so-called self-proclaim on February 17th. The Republic of Kosovo, maintains a assembly in Kosovo, Mitrovica. At the session itself, all the legal acts of this para-state formation would be annulled, and by the location of the session of the Serbian Parliament, we would show the whole world that the state of Serbia will fight to preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty. "Lady President, I'll give you a copy of this fax. I assume you'll multiply that by all the parliamentary groups. We should indeed sit down again and agree on the moves that are necessary under this requirement by the KIM Community Assembly, what is what is in the government's jurisdiction, what is in Parliament's jurisdiction, individual committees, and in this situation, believe me, and the President of the Republic is obliged to take up and discuss with all the political factors the seriousness of the KIM situation. On behalf of the SRS, I join the demands of the KIM Community Assembly, especially in this area where it insists that we maintain one assembly in Kosovo Mitrovica, and this would indeed, in a transparent way, show that this is the territory of our country, and so much, I think, we can do. As you can see, MPs are calm when something important is on the agenda. Sometimes they're interested, sometimes they're not interested. Sometimes they know something, something less familiar. In different ways, they react or interfere with the speaker. Now, as you can see, no one has bothered me, even though the one who calls on me is constantly being distracted at one of the consultations with you called me ignorant and idiotic and someone who sits with assholes, fools and idiots. That is how Tomislav Nikolic sees you, dear fellow Members of the people. I thank you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12961	This is an opportunity to inform you that this assembly and how it will actively follow the initiative that we had today and implement it. A session of the KiM Committee will be held tomorrow at 12.00 hours. At that session, of course, all the ministers you mentioned today will be invited. This is in line with the initiative of this congregation. So the topic you started here will practically be transferred to the Committee's work. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12962	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to say that the MEP Group will vote in favour of both acts, given the importance of these two independent institutions for the creation of a democratic society in which we will achieve basic functions, which is a matter of control of public finances, the availability of information of public importance, as well as the protection of personal data. Just appreciating the importance of these documents and wanting them adopted as soon as possible, we won't use our time to discuss it. In voting day, we'll vote for all these acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12963	Thank you. The word is from Mr Petronijevic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the SPS-JS parliamentary group is the signator of the request to hold this extraordinary session and will vote for a decision to give its consent to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution. In short, the State Audit Institute is the highest state body to audit public funds in Serbia. That's what the Constitution said. Secondly, the Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted. The Council of the State Auditing Institution has been educated. The third condition is met in this way, by adopting rules of procedure, i.e. the decision to give the Assembly’s consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution which regulates the way and procedure of the audit. Of course, with the expectation that both spatial and material conditions are resolved as soon as possible, we expect the State Auditing Institution to have a very quick work result. There is no one in Serbia who will not say that public spending control is number one priority. We have the situation and experience that for eight years the Assembly has not had the opportunity to consider, that its assessment, its judgment on the spending of public funds in the Republic of Serbia. Now, when the State Audit Institute is eventually trained, when conditions are created to review financial reports, not only budgets and not only mandatory social security organisations, but also public enterprises which are also subject to audits and local self-government, the Assembly plays its own, in addition to the law, a very important function, which is a control function. We have listened to thousands of examples in previous years, and even now, of how these funds are spent. Now is the opportunity to make it clear in one orderly and organized way. I would remind you that, when budget spending control is carried out, the Rules of Procedure correctly state that the spending report contains exactly how much is approved, how much is spent, where the explanation of why it is so spent. I'll remind you of another important detail that the Council of the State Auditing Institution puts before the act of supreme responsibility. They are now the ones, and not us here, by reviewing these reports, by reviewing those reports, when they establish that material rights have been violated, that the funds have not been spent properly, that there are elements for criminal and criminal proceedings, are obliged to initiate a criminal offence. So much will reduce the need in the congregation that we MPs individually present examples, we ask that this be determined, etc. So this is an important document for an important institution, which creates conditions for it to work, and the Serbian Parliament opens up an opportunity to deal with also an important function -- a control function. In order not to report back, we will support, regardless of what the second item of the agenda is, and also the acts proposed by the Commissioner for Information. To conclude, the SPS-JS will vote for a decision to give its consent to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12965	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS and SRS. I give my word to MP Milan Lapčević of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12966	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, respected gentlemen from the State Auditing Institution, I will see to it that I am as concise and shorter as possible, to present a few observations concerning this very important state body, which will finally, after so many years, introduce, hopefully, the order in spending public funds. A law on the state audit institution was passed in 2005, and under that law the Council of the State Auditing Institution was elected in September 2007. As foreseen by the law, the DRI submitted its Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly at the end of December. Unfortunately, he only now, after more than a year of the Rules of Procedure's submission, came to Parliament's agenda, which is one of the basic preconditions for the functioning of such an important institution. Why is this institution so important? It is important because it will control the spending of money on all taxpayers, i.e. spending on public finances. So far, it has not been a practice in Serbia, because the state has always engaged in collecting money from taxpayers, but that is why no one has taken care of where these taxpayers spend their money, where they really go. Then no wonder why such a degree of corruption is in this country and why Serbia is, unfortunately, 86th in a degree of corruption, which is a very unpredictable position, and thus sends a very bad picture of our country as an untrustworthy country, in which there is a government of corruption, in which it is not desirable to invest and develop jobs. We believe that by establishing such an institute of state finance control, the degree of corruption will be significantly lower and the benefits will be multiple. The mere fact that the State Audit Institute will control more than eight billion euros, the amount of the Serbian budget, that it will control spending and the purpose of spending money in public enterprises, that it will control public procurement in Serbia, which is officially over two billion euros, and, unfortunately, it spends more than four billion euros annually on public procurement in Serbia, and the assessment of independent experts is that even 15-25% of the funds spent on public procurement, unfortunately, goes to that gray zone, to corruption and money laundering. The state audit institution will cost Serbia in 2009 about 190m dinars or, translated into that solid currency, 2m euros. With those two million euros, some fifty civil servants or auditors, or perhaps something more, should be controlled by thousands of budget users. I mentioned the budget of Serbia that weighs eight billion euros, public procurements of over four billion euros and funds that have public enterprises in Serbia, which are certainly very high. There will be a lot of problems in the work of that institution, for several reasons. One of the basic problems will be a very large number of budget users, how all these institutions control and how to obtain real data. There are also those technical problems, which we have talked about several times in this assembly, as regards basic conditions for work, space, and equipment that state auditors must have in order to carry out their work in quality and proper. There will also be a problem and a sufficient number of quality personnel who, on the one hand, will be trained to do the state audit work, on the other hand, sound enough and fair enough to do the job properly, and on the third hand to be motivated to work for, we heard here, a very humiliating salary, of some sixty thousand dinars. I'm afraid we're going to have a huge problem at the beginning to attract quality and honest people who are going to work for that money, and I'm sure this is, if we want to, and I'm sure we all want to root out that monster of corruption in the country, a job similar to that that Elliot Ness used to do in America. For such a job, we have to have credible, honest people who know very well what they're doing, but so, in order to do quality work and to remain honest, they have to be very well paid. With a salary of 60,000 dinars, I'm afraid we won't have that effect, which means we won't even have quality control of state funds, and yet this means that we won't reduce the level of corruption in the country. What good will an institution like this do? I'm sure it's multiple. If we take, say, only 10% of public procurement corruption estimates will be reduced, it will be the entire budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. If the State Audit Authority, in addition to, of course, that preventive factor, works so well to reduce the degree of corruption in the country by only 10%, it will be a great benefit to our country. Not only in finance, not only in more realised projects, but also in the position of the world, a better picture of Serbia as a country where exactly what the funds are collected for, and what they are spent on, and if there is abuse, who makes them. There is a huge responsibility on this institution, and on you, gentlemen of the Audition, but I am sure that with this kind of support in parliament, almost unanimous, you have this initial support to go into serious clearing up the waste of state money where they don't belong, and it's up to you to take that chance. In the end, you'll have to, of course, have some personal courage to do it. There will always be problems with those you control, it will always be the authorities that will trip those who do the job and pressure to hide something that is illegal, and on you and on those who will specifically do the audit remains to make personal courage, honesty and credibility a choice for this institution to contribute to the overall improvement of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12967	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladan Jeremic, the SRS, come in. He's gone. Mrs. Marina Toman, please. The SRS has 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12968	Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted in November 2005 and it envisioned a six-month period for this body to be formed and started to work. The DRI, past all legal deadlines, was founded only on 27 September 2007, and everyone knows the fact that this highest control body, planned to control nine and a half thousand budget users, since its establishment, is practically blocked. Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that has no external state audit of public finances, which means there is no control over budget spending, no control of public finances, public funds and public enterprises. If not because of something else, then at least because of the fact that all EU countries have it, European integration advocates should ask themselves that they have not exaggerated a little in obstruction in its formation and work. The SRS supported the initiative to put the DRI Rules of Procedure on the agenda today because it is obvious that the government has not heard of such a thing, but has not had the will, and this confirms the fact that all reasonable deadlines have long passed. If it hadn't been for the time to do something like that before, it was just a skillful avoidance of the truth. It is true that government and some other budget users are not responsible for DRI starting work. It's one thing to make a law and adopt it, and the other thing is to apply it in practice. Many laws in this House have been passed, however, we are witnessing that they are actually just a dead letter on paper. We can say that what the government is saying -- yes, we are in favour of having an external state audit of public finances because this would allow, apparently, their transparency, rationality in spending, the suppression of corruption -- nothing, but nothing at all, if this is how it behaves and is not subject to one very important law, the Law on the State Auditing Institution. This only shows the lack of political will of the ruling coalition, not only of these but also of the previous ones, to allow the government and public enterprises to control their work, social insurance organisations and other budgetary users. How state funds are spent -- a key issue for more rational spending of the same funds. On the other hand, the fight against corruption would (and, if I am not mistaken, everyone in this House advocates it, some honestly, some do not) move from a dead end if the state money is known to be being spent. The government makes it clear by its behaviour that it wants to avoid establishing a control mechanism, i.e. setting up the work of this institution. The SRS supported the proposal to put the rules of procedure on the agenda. However, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure itself, we must make some objections. I'll only talk about one of his segments. First of all, the Rules of Procedure do not allow for full independence and independence in relation to the entities controlled by the State Auditing Institution. It does not allow an adequate width of control because it insufficiently determines the powers of the State Auditing Institution. Also, provisions relating to the involvement of an external expert are controversial. We believe that he is given too much importance and is given a very significant, sometimes in the revision a crucial role, and the question is then what is the purpose of the former state auditors. The Rules of Procedure of Article 26, which relate to the proposal for a review report, in paragraph 5, provide that, if the findings of the audit referred to in the draft audit report are disputed, or if, in relation to the opinion of the external expert, doubts are expressed as to its regularity, that finding is considered controversial. It's a very interesting solution, isn't it? ) on the basis of which the question can be asked - does not it create a possibility, i.e. a space for corruption and bribery, or can it be completely excluded that the external auditor has deliberately challenged a report by representing someone's interests? I don't think so. Article 29 goes one step further and allows the general public auditor to hire more external experts on the same issue. Who's gonna pay for that? Especially since, under the law of an external expert, a foreign citizen may be appointed. Who will pay for it if there is no money for the DRI itself and if Council President Radoslav Sretenovic publicly expresses his concern that he will not be able to find an adequate number of professional staff since the salaries are low? I don't think you can count on funds from pre-accession funds. On what criteria will external experts be chosen? If you look at everything that's happened so far in connection with the DRI, you can say that all of this is one of the most common farces, a bunch of absurds, a vicious circle from which, unfortunately, this kind of behavior of the government cannot come out. It is the government that is legally required to provide conditions for the work of the State Auditing Institution, space, equipment and means of work. The Rules of Procedure will be adopted, but I wonder what will happen to personnel and space. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, isn't the fact that space is not secured for more than a year doesn't say that the government really isn't serious in its intention to bring the State Auditing Institution back to life? Although she was given rooms in the former Federation Palace in October, that is, in today's Serbian Palace, she is still in the conference room for the House of the National Assembly. When the clarifications and explanations of the authorities explain why, man simply doesn't know whether to laugh or try to hide this national disgrace. Namely, when the State Auditing Institution tried to move into the acquired premises, it realized that there were already tenants, or officials of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Prime Minister Cvetkovic reportedly pledged to resolve the problem by the end of January. However, we must take it with a reserve since Minister Ciplic's statement of December 12th on the problem says he could not be resolved for three months. Believe it or not, Minister Ciplic argues this: After we received notice that in 15 of the 30 rooms the State Auditing Institution had moved in, we, of course, wanted to respect it, realized that we were not in the area of the room at all. Minister Ciplic argues that the premises are used by the MUP, the Staff Management Service, the KIM Ministry. So there's no way to see who's using certain rooms. Does such behavior resemble the behavior of a responsible and serious state administration? I'm afraid not. Is it possible that the authorities don't know which offices their officers sit in? Is it possible that moving out of those rooms will take three months? Also, I think there's going to be a problem with the frames. If I'm not mistaken, the fact is, the DRI is currently hiring only two auditors. The contest was called November 7th, until the other day no one has been admitted. As kindly as the public initially looked at the occasional advertising of Mr. Sretenovic, however, a question was raised in the public -- why did you agree to participate in this farce for a year and a half? If you saw that there were no conditions for working, why didn't you resign? Your answer that you can't order the government is absolutely unacceptable. You can't, but from the first man of one such institution as the DRI is expected to have a more energetic reaction. The public expected you, Mr. Sretenovic, to show greater authority. One of the DRI's control subjects will be the government. If the first man of the DRI will publicly declare that the government has repeatedly faked it with false promises and does nothing, how will you deal with the pressures that will surely arise when the audit takes place? I'm interested in what Mr. Sretenovic and his colleagues have done in the past. I'd also like to see the review program for next year. Otherwise, the President of the Council of Mr Sretenovic's response to a journalistic question was interesting to conclude that the State Auditing Institution was expected to react when it came to public procurement affairs in the case of Railways and NIS. You said, "We must adhere to the programme that the Council adopts at the beginning of the year." Indeed, it is an incredible answer if the Rules of Procedure predicts that the Council can amend or supplement the programme in the course of the year. A few months ago, when the whole public was scolding over information about malfeasance, crime and corruption in public enterprises, the President of the Council, after a little reflection, said that the revision of public enterprises would only take place when opportunities were created: "We have a plan. Our priority is four points: Serbia's budget, social, pension, health insurance funds, the National Central Bank for the use of public funds from the budget. Public enterprises are not our priority." So the DRI has its own programme and plan, and the chairmans of the boards of directors and directors of the public enterprises in which corruption reigns, in which the Law on Public Procurement and a series of other laws is violated, can still enjoy it for a while because there is certain that there will be no control. It's clear to everyone that there's a lot of work to do. However, attention must also be paid to public companies that have indications that there has been a violation of the law. Also, Council President Mr. Sretenovic argues that an audit of the budget is necessary for six months and that the revision could be completed in August. I'm interested in – reviewing what account, whether for 2007 or 2008? If you complete your audit for 2007, since you need six months to audit, it means there will be no time for the 2008 revision. Indeed, there are many questions that ask an answer. Finally, to conclude, all that is happening in the formation and operation of the State Auditing Institution cannot be justified to form such institutions for at least three years, but it is political will that this institution never, in its full form, be brought to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12969	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word. You have 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when asked whether the State Auditing Institution will meet the expectations of Serbian citizens and do the work that the Constitution and the law are putting in charge of, at this point no one can answer. That depends, above all, on the members of the State Auditing Institution themselves. If you consistently respect the Constitution and the law, if you are professional, safe, professional and responsible, if you follow the apostle Paul's advice not to see who is who and if you are willing to object to those who currently exercise power in Serbia, political authorities, their mentors, tycoons, etc., then the DRI will justify the purpose of its existence, or it will carry out all those tasks that the Constitution and the law prescribe as its jurisdiction. But if you're just a facade, if you're just a decor to the current regime, if you exist just to fulfill the mere form of the Constitution and the law, then the state of Serbia and its citizens will have no use for it. Since I have come from Vojvodina, which has become the scene of a political struggle over the new AP Vojvodina statute in recent months, I am obliged to publish several information that is likely to be very important for the State Auditing Institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Auditing Institution, for months, if not years, the citizens of Vojvodina are deceived and lie that they will live better if they are as independent of central Serbia and the regime in Belgrade. It is a completely untrue story that citizens in Novi Sad, Subotica, Kickindi, Sremska Mitrovica, Zrenjanin, Sombor and other municipalities and towns of Vojvodina live hard because they are also robbed by the poor citizens of Vranja, Kruševac, Valjev, Šapca, Negotina, Belgrade, etc. Bojan Pajtic's regime in Vojvodina is the same 'yellow' regime that governs here in Belgrade and throughout Serbia, and tells the citizens of Vojvodina about this - you will live better, better and more comfortable on condition that we are as much dependent on the regime in Belgrade as possible. And that regime is the same in Novi Sad and Belgrade. Gentlemen of the State Auditing Institution, you will, of course, have a lot of work to do throughout Serbia, both in state bodies and in public enterprises. It would be good to pay attention to an institution that plays a pretty dark role in Vojvodina. Its role is to blow up the Democratic Party in Vojvodina at the time of the election campaign and to facilitate its victory in the elections. It's the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. If you are seriously going to review the business of the state authorities and public authorities in general, and I mean the institutions of the AP Vojvodina, then you will have your hands full with this fund. Because this fund is a semi-private facility serving its owners in Novi Sad. No one knows how, on what basis, they leave the fund for the capital investment of Vojvodina. The Capital Investment Fund is, by the way, an institution that shares money with a hand and a hat with similar DS tycoons in Vojvodina, without any tenders. And now you have one paradoxical phenomenon. You can check all that out. I didn't mention it this time and I don't want to mention specific numbers and names, etc., but if you insist, I can give you that information. So now the municipalities of Vojvodina are in a funny situation. The municipalities can't get coffee cups without blowing up a tender. They can't get any sort of desk-teacher material without dissipating the tender. They can't create buildings where municipal authorities are located without dissipating the tender. But that's not the case with the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. He who is 'good', who is 'friend', who is 'on the same political wavelength' with those who exercise power today in Vojvodina, can get a job, for example, to pave the streets and roads in Vojvodina without any tenders. You know what's going on? The Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund directly pays money to the contractors, to their jury account. Check it out with those who are sitting in the Duke's Executive Council today and you'll see that it is. The contractor shall be paid directly into their giro account. In this situation, gentlemen of the State Audit Institute, who can check how much money has really gone into the asphalting of streets and roads, and how much has gone into private pockets, to buy expensive cars, apartments, bars, not only here in Serbia, but around the world? Stop what the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is doing, because absolutely no one has control over how this fund actually works, where that money goes, to whom and on what basis. Absolutely not respected by the Law of Public Procurement. Simply, the Fund was created only to pave the way for the quality of the works carried out at night on election day, the night before the elections, to pave the way for the streets and roads. The streets are paved (this may be said to you from Vojvodina MPs, they don't even have to come from the ranks of the SRS) at night, by temperatures below zero, by mud, they don't even wash, they simply throw asphalt at the mud, but then they say – you see, citizens, how DS works; if you vote for DS, you get new roads, streets, etc. The election is over, not a month goes by, and the road fails. But who's asking you? The DS won the election. You had Vuk Jeremic here, the foreign minister, who, when we discussed the government's trust, so full of himself, happily told the MPs of the opposition -- you can criticize us, you can transfer a lot to us, but we won the elections. Yes, you won the election by handing out packages on election day. And you have to deal with it. How is it possible for Serbian government ministers to share packages with citizens on election day, would they not vote for the party these ministers belong to? Ask, see if the ministers in their pockets buy those packages. I brought one of those packages here to the Serbian Parliament. Hundreds of such packages have been distributed throughout Serbia, especially in Vojvodina. Ask the Ministers, gentlemen of the State Auditing Institution, whether they are full of their own money or have first robbed the people and people of hundreds of thousands and millions of euros and then come to them on election day and bring a package that may be worth three, four or five thousand dinars and say, "Here, this is a gift from DS and Boris Tadic to vote for a list called For European Serbia or for the European Vojvodina." So, first of all, check out how the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund operates. That's what I'm telling you because for months there's been a very dangerous lie that the citizens of Vojvodina will live better if Vojvodina gets the minority status of a federal unit. Here, these days, today, certain Belgrade daily papers have announced that these great autonomists and rights fighters of the Vojvodina citizens are actually acting. There are even some MPs here from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina who are not at all at the Vojvodina Executive Council, nor are the regional secretaries, nor are they deputies, nor are they employees of the Vojvodina Executive Council, but each day they come to the Serbian Assembly with official cars of the Vojvodina Executive Council and orderly at the cash registers to charge the diaries as if they had come in their cars. E, those who have established the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which abuse the right to compensate for travel expenses incurred by MPs, are full of the Statutes of Vojvodina, the European Union, they tell stories about Vojvodina as a democratic European region etc. So, deal with these questions a little bit. I think it would be good, Mr. Sretenovic, if the Ministry of Finance is avoiding us from giving an answer, try to help us or ask your colleague, Rodoljub Sabic, a public-important information trustee, to tell us where the Serbian government thinks it pays off whoever delivers information on the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic or Goran Hadzic. From what sources, from which budget positions, who will pay the tax on the compensation that is received in the amount of a million, or 250,000 euros in dinar equivalent? We have not yet received a valid answer to these questions. As far as the Rules of Procedure itself are concerned, Mr. Sretenovic, I am now in doubt whether the Rules of Procedure which regulates the internal rules of work of an authority or whether it is a material law. If you are reading this Rules of Procedure, you will see that it contains a number of provisions that belong in the law on the State Auditing Institution, not in the Rules of Procedure. You know, the Rules of Procedure are an internal act, which contains, above all, rules of conduct, or internal rules of work of an authority. Here you have a whole series of material and legal provisions that should be in the DRI law, not in the Rules of Procedure. I really need to draw your attention to some obvious legal shortcomings in this document. Article 6 — Institution in post-audit procedure. This is now a very ghastly formulation, but come on, let's say we know what it means. He says - he's bringing in an act: 1) a request for a contractor. It's not a legal act, Mr. Sretenovic. An application for a contractor is not a legal act. Furthermore, 2) a notice to the National Assembly -- it is not the same legal act, 3) a call for the resolution of the responsible person -- is also not a legal act, 4) a press release -- it is just not a legal act. Then you have in Article 9 paragraph 1 point 8. I really ask you to pay attention to the language of this Rules of Procedure. In point 8), it says - the response report is a report on the removal of detected irregularities or irregularities. "Responsible report" - ask the MPs who were in the army and they will tell you that this is military terminology. This is how the guard and the guard commander are agreed - response and password. What do you need this response report for? Maybe some "return report" or find an appropriate term. This is a completely military termology, which is not a place in the DRI's Rules of Procedure. It is also characteristic of this article 43. It is a typical example that this Rules of Procedure contain, to a greater extent, material and legal provisions, than those concerning the rules of conduct of the DRI itself: "When consulting users of public funds and audit entities, providing professional assistance to the National Assembly, Government and other state bodies, as well as giving opinions to public finance laws, the Institution preserves its independence audit." This is a typical material and legal provision, it has nothing to do with the internal rules of conduct of the DRI. "The advice must not accept the kind of commentation or evaluation of the revised reports." And this is a typical material and legal provision, of which, by the way, this Rules of Procedure is running out. Of course, the SRS really supports the start of the DRI operation. It's good to bring, even if this is the case, the Rules of Procedure. Better like this than none. It's better if the State Auditing Institution starts working than it doesn't have it at all or that it only exists on paper. Now, gentlemen of the DRI, it's up to you all. If you are willing to look the truth into your eyes and face a brave face of numerous financial malfeasances, which, unfortunately, are rich political life in Serbia, this institution seems to succeed. If you only exist to fulfill the letter of the Constitution and the law, then you will be a common facade. Then from your work and existence, with all your expertise, which I really don't want to question, Serbian citizens will not see any use, Serbia will continue to be a dark villa in which the owners will do whatever they want, and the state authorities will only be there as mere observers of something that is nowhere, in any EU country where you gentlemen, at least in words, seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12971	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush. Your task force only has 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12972	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as promised to you, consider this debate to be just the beginning of our story about DRI, about the transparency of public finances, about where they are going, and how the taxpayers' money is spent. Also, this is just the beginning of the campaign that the SRS will be going through here, and that is our election promise. In the end, perhaps even a legacy for this year, given that someone really has to start a very serious story on corruption and organised crime in the state of Serbia, and the government is not. What we had the opportunity to hear these days, these months and these years, Mr. Sretenovic, and here is the majority of your interviews you gave to the media, is that the state did not find appropriate to organise the conditions necessary for the operation of the DRI. Now, on January 20th, you gave the daily list of "Politics" interviews, which I really read with attention. As far as the SRS sees, your work will not be easy at all, because in addition to the material and technical means, it is really a question of the personnel structure of those people who will be willing to deal with such a business as the revision of public finances. The SRS also expects you here to hear what the state is, and I assume that you are regularly in contact with those who are owned to give you answers to such dilemmas, taking on the security and independence of those who will work in the DRI, because you are entering the minefield, for which the state has for years created the impression that it will address what is a very big problem (not most important, but perhaps secondly, after the national identity of this people and this country), which is the problem of corruption, i.e. where the taxpayers' money goes and in what way. If we just remember that there are about 12,000 buyers and 80,000 bidders in Serbia, about 250,000 contracts are concluded annually, with a value exceeding $1.7 billion. About 800 public procurements have been cancelled in the last three and a half years. In early 2002, the participation of public procurement in Serbia-Montenegro's gross social product was about 9%. Last year, the share of public procurement accounted for around 11% of Serbia's gross social product. Public procurement in the EU accounts for about 30% of the total public consumption, representing about 16% of the EU's gross social product. In these few minutes, I'll only try to speak the exact language of the digits. What we had the opportunity to hear a while ago from Dr. Predrag Jovanovic is that the lack of adequate frame is one of the really important factors that bothers not only the DRI, but other institutions that have anti-corruption character and which are newer dates. Certainly no one is in a hurry to get an effective controller – I quote Dr Jovanovic. For example, in Montenegro in 2004, the law was passed in April, and already in July the Council was appointed and it has been operational by the DRI. When we compare countries in the environment, the countries of the Western Balkans, we are therefore the last country to think of working on forming a DRI. That's enough answer. However, what attracted my attention is also Dr Jovanovic's statement that, according to his assessment, the introduction of real control, contrary to the formality it currently exists, would certainly add a minimum of 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the public procurement sector. It's on an annual level somewhere between 100m and 200m euros. The specific quality of DRI compared to other control institutions is that it examines the integrity of spending budgets, which will say that it doesn't matter if you have five employees and you take 100 computers. Then we come to your work, which has also attracted my attention, called the role of DRI in checking the regularity and purpose of public procurement, where you, among other things, make a proposal and define what the DRI should be doing. For the sake of citizens who will follow this in a delayed transfer, you say, among other things, - with direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets, so the Republic, territorial autonomy, local authorities, compulsory social security organisations, budget funds, National Bank of Serbia in the part relating to the use of public funds, public enterprises, companies and other legal entities established by a direct, or indirect user of public funds, legal entities in which the state has a participation in capital, other entities using funds, assets under control and at the disposal of the Republic, territorial autonomy and local authorities. I have to tell you, we totally agree with that. It really is the DRI reference framework, and then again I can only repeat that we wish you all the happiness in this business. Honestly, what I'm not questioning is your qualification, but I find it a little strange that you haven't responded in a more drastic way or, listening to your professional ethics, you simply stepped down from a job that you simply can't do. Not because of your guilt, but simply, the state has no will to deal with a serious story in terms of an anti-corruption campaign, such as the formation and operation of the DRI. Another very important piece of data, not because the SRS says so, but because it is said by people who are indeed in a way representing power, is Mrs. Verice Barac, president of the Council for the fight against corruption. Here's what she said a while ago, on January 20th, - a lack of work space is one of the effective methods with the help that individuals in power are persistently preventing from building an institution by destroying the existing ones. That's how people humiliate themselves, discourage, and put themselves in an addictive position. In addition to these examples, it is important to mention the fact that the halls of justice are fenced in order to provide work space. The even more important part of her statement is - the paradox is that this country has donated thousands of the best business space that was owned by it. That's what Mrs Barac says to her friends, Mladjan Dinkic. More than 12,000 square meters of business space was first introduced to banks for use, then seven and a half thousand square meters sold under the conditions he prescribed and to whom he wanted. The rest was leased at extremely favourable prices. So, I'm going to try to be very brief at the end, when this is said by people who are supposed to deal with corruption in front of a democratic government that conducted the revolution on October 5th on a wave of corruption with the principle of introducing transparency in all areas of society, we are, as an opposition, really in front of a big dilemma. Ten years after the Friday changes, we don't have audit reports, we don't have final accounts, and we have no idea where the money of poor Serbian citizens goes. Just one last piece of information. So we made an effort to reach a donation programme in 2000-2008 at the expense of state organisations and states themselves. In total, 400, nearly ten million dollars arrived, for which we do not know who they went to and what is the result of concrete donations according to specific projects. So, Mr. Sretenovic, I hope the SRS MP club hears from you the answers that will help us in this initial part to understand what it is that awaits us in the next year, two, three, four and what kind of state we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-22-0.u12973	The SRS parliamentary group has wasted time, so the other MPs will not be able to take part in the debate today. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. On the second item of the agenda, we'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present at this time, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the start of work. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session to be attended by Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Public Information. I welcome him. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DANISING OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE TO THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
