ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19085	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 125 national MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have sent an emergency to obtain technical explanations and answers to parliamentary questions to all bodies from which no answer has been reached. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Radojko Obradovic has applied, but has to insert the card again. You didn't? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19086	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these days, actually on 30 April and 7 May of this year, journalists, cameramen and technical contractors TV "Bujanovac" have been invited to an informative conversation at a police station in Bujanovac to collect information about the crime committed by Article 317. A criminal code, i.e. due to the alleged inciting interethnic hatred during the broadcast of a TV show dedicated to the event held at the House of Culture in Bujanovac on 25 May 2007, on the anniversary of the death of Ridvan Qazimi of Veliko Trnovec. How has this event been regularly reported to public order and peace authorities, and how during this period, no police report in Bujanovac has provided information on interethnic incidents or interethnic tensions related to this show, I ask the question – why is it necessary for Serbia's MUP to invent after two years of full-time incentives for interethnic hatred and such a constructive accusation burdens, in fact, quite unwarrantedly accuses innocent journalists and workers of TV "Bujanovac" who, while carrying out their professional commitment, have been reporting with the above-mentioned meeting? I ask Minister Dacic – what will he do to put an end to this kind of pressure on journalists and redistribution workers in the Albanian language of "Bujanovac" TV? I also ask Minister Dacic to provide us with a more serious answer in written form to the question asked by counterpart Marina Ragus about the round table held in Bujanovac, where, besides former US Ambassador Montgomery and former Deputy Prime Minister Mr Covic, I also participated. Ms. Ragush, due to a lack of more precise information, re-shaped the topic of the round table held in Bujanovac last year. The theme was Kosovo on the other hand. It was organised by the Centre for Democracy and Development of South Serbia. The subject is slightly different, in terms of Kosovo's contact or co-operation with the south of Serbia. However, here, in my opinion, is the key thing why the association, which was given by Minister Dacic on that occasion, is quite unwarranted, about this round table with this topic, even if it was formulated as the Parliament of Ragush did, since the idea and association of protecting the integrity of this country in the first place. Why even connect the integrity of the state to a round table that was quite publicly reported and held in Bujanovac last year? In this regard, it is absolutely necessary for the Minister to explain to us what information was given to him at this time (President: Gentlemen Members, please be quiet and take your seats. In order to achieve a completely untasteful association on these two entirely different topics. Also from Minister Dacic, who reached out on that occasion, on the subject of this round table, and on the arrest of...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19087	Mr. Halimi, it's been three minutes. Mr. Vladan Batic has his word, just please sign up again to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19088	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question is for the Minister of Education. The Faculty of Law in Kragujevac received scores between seven and ten in the accreditation process according to various anonymous reviews on all cases. Based on the results of the Sub-Committee for Social Sciences of the National Accreditation Commission, a unanimous proposal has been adopted to confirm, without any objections, the accreditation of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac. In April, the Accreditation Commission postponed the provision of accreditation at about the same pace as the postponement of the trial in the "Index" famous affair, one of the affairs in which selective justice is demonstrated. I would remind you that the indictment under the Index affair was not only professors of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, but also the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and the late Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis, but these colleges got accreditation without a problem. I ask – does this commission take over the role of the court or some ethical committee, since it is reportedly a matter of consideration for the members of the Commission because of various moral principles? Is this a kind of pressure on the court to convict the defendant without trial? Are the members of the Accreditation Commission familiar with the content of the Anti- Discrimination Act? Because something like this can't be done, this is a crime. Or is all of this preparing for some of the locals to become a private owner of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac? The second question, for the Government – which explains that the Director of the Republic Seismological Institute is still a person who was in two mandates, and what second term has long expired? What are the reasons, which are motives for this same person, who, in a month or two, still qualify for retirement, to be the director of the Republic of Seismological Institute? The third question, for the economy minister and finance minister, and let them consult the Privatisation Agency and the Deposit Insurance Agency – what are the rights of small shareholders of the Rapid Action Society in Belgrade, because small shareholders are the owners of 30% of the company's actions? The majority owner (this may be interesting) is the company "Dibek". From the other part of the title, you can see who owns this company. This "back", you're told. "Dibek" artificially went bankrupt, but he's the majority owner of the Rapid. It is now sold over 5,000 squares of storage space at the expense of small shareholders, at an attractive location, in Bačvanska Street, and in this area a multi-story with several tens of thousands of squares of business and living space can be made, all to the detriment of small shareholders. Therefore, I ask the competent ministers to answer this question, which has more dimensions – how can the majority owner, who is in bankruptcy, sell anything, why did the company go bankrupt in the first place, and what about small shareholders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19089	Thank you. The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic on behalf of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19090	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in fact, Mr. Todorovic answered, but he used my card. And not accidentally, but with the intention of proving to you that this is how the secrecy of the vote in the National Assembly is compromised. We had an electronic voting system and cards before, which we had to use by inserting into the electronic voting system, but it wasn't seen in the document and it knew who was voting. Now we have chipped cards, and no body of the Assembly has decided that this card looks like it. We don't know what data that chip has. I ask the President of the National Assembly, and I call on the MPs who, I suppose, are interested in it – who is the one who controls every day when voting who is, as well as what did he vote for? If you agree with that, if it's your party leaders, if it's someone else on the side who's interested in knowing who's loyal to whom, it's your problem, but we don't think there's any real democracy in this country, that parliamentaryism is and how threatened and that we're going to have to rebel against this. This may seem benign to you, but I personally and on behalf of the SRS think this is another way of controlling parliament. In addition to being controlled by tycoons, controlled by foreign embassies, we now have control of who knows who and whose services and who knows what people are interested in. If you allow yourself to be someone's hostages, we're not ready to agree to that. In addition, Madam Chairman, in short alone, I ask you to respond to the SRS parliamentary group – how long was the session from which we were expelled, the fourth session of the regular session? How long have we been away from the Assembly, since the Assembly has turned into a circus, that the opposition is undesirable, that you do not allow us to work and that you will probably continue to do anything that the word of Serbian radicals is not heard, of course, synchronised and with all Serbian media or most media, I apologize if I have offended someone who truly considers himself independent or is independent, so that we know how possibly one day we can be outside of parliament, because theoretically we could be 100 days outside of parliament. By circumstances, we were somewhat less, but for the sake of the public, please answer us in writing – how long were we outside the congregation? Especially since Mr. Konstantinovic deceives the public on television and says the opposition does not exist in parliament because there are no diaries, not because it has been expelled from parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19091	Thank you. Sentenced SRS MPs were as far away as the Rules of Procedure predicted, until the end of the session on which the measure was given. As far as the cards are concerned, I would just like to tell you that the entire electronic system, including the cards, was started and designed long before this Parliament's call was established, and our obligation is to make continuity in the work of everything that is positive, which is positive. Thank you. Mr. Zoran Shami answered the question. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the place: Replica. He can't right now, he can't at this point, and then you'll get your word back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19092	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am one of the five former presidents of the Assembly, of various congregations, who are now sitting among the MPs. I'll give you my position, and I believe all the other former presidents of the congregation will share it. There's something the president of the assembly, that's two things, he can never do. First and foremost, it must not allow any doubt about the irregularity of the vote. Secondly, he must not threaten the MPs. I'm afraid you've done both in the past few days. A few months ago, I pointed out to you at a meeting that the President of the Assembly is the third man in the state. When a third man is in the state and president of the Assembly, it is understood that he is the president of all MPs in the Assembly and that he must not succumb to the pressures of those who think that arrogant and passionate behavior is evidence of their power. Bajato and ossion behavior is a proof of the indiscretion and inability to lead the state, proof of greed and defamation to maintain power at all costs and, of course, proof to all Serbian citizens that such a choice should no longer be made. There's something else. I do not belong to those who think it is good that we have thousands of amendments, but I remind you, when in the 1990s the opposition also on several occasions obstructed parliament, that then the government wondered why the opposition was doing it, then probably not even then, and this unfortunate Serbia of ours would not end up the way we all ended up. And finally, my question to you, after all I've said, is it very simple – are you going to behave the same way in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19093	Thank you. Maybe you just need to distinguish between haughtiness and seriousness. Mrs. Alexander Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19094	Can I finally get a word? So, my question is about what is happening with chief Hague prosecutor Serge Brammerco, who announced the prosecution of chief editor of the press for contempt of the court, because, my God, the press has published transcripts of the listening talks of KLA Commander Fatmir Ljam, which he conducted from Hague detention during 2003. What is also unusual, among other things, is that Ljum's lawyers in advance, so before the trial begins, promise to be free. However, chief Hague prosecutor Serge Brammertz requested an explanation during his trip to Belgrade three days ago for Serbian war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic for the publication of the transcript in "Pres" and announced that he had already launched an internal investigation into The Hague to find the one who was "christ" and who gave one Serbian media to lead a broad investigation into Serbia. This is a question for Justice Minister Mrs. Snezana Malovic, for Culture and Information Minister Nebojsa Bradic, as the Association of Journalists of Serbia, which opposed The Hague's pressure on "Pres" and the media in Serbia, also addressed the issue. Namely, what does the Association of Journalists of Serbia say? A few months ago, we learned that the Hague prosecutor criticised the Serbian government for not expressing itself with proper awe about the Hague court. Now the Hague prosecutor, as we know, doesn't like the fact that the Pres came into possession of Ljum's transcripts. In both cases, it is actually the pressure of the Hague prosecutor on Serbian authorities, UN President Ljiljana Smajlovic said of "Pres". My question is: what will we do to protect the freedom of the media in Serbia, to protect the rights of Serbian media to deal with investigative journalism, to investigate crimes? And in the opinion of many competent lawyers, there is no responsibility or "pres" or other media in the sense that transcripts of the Seveningen talks do not have a sign of confidentiality. So every prisoner in The Hague was practically informed that his conversations were being listened to. The question, of course, is whether the next visit by Serge Brammertz will bring a warning that MPs who eventually do not do the quorum by inserting their cards into these electronic boxes can also show disrespect for The Hague tribunal and be punished. Things have really been brought here to the paradox. Either the state of Serbia will behave seriously, or this parliament will respond to more important issues and finally start respecting the Serbian public, and, above all, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19095	Thank you. The word is by Mr Ostojic Zoran, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19096	Madam President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, it may be the third person in office. I have a question for the government, but since I've been using this institute for days to raise Parliament's reputation, and I'm not getting any answers, I'm going to continue. We've asked the Prime Minister five or six times about those money from public enterprises, which, through one adviser to the President of the Republic, go into one minor printed thing. We didn't get an answer. Since you cannot influence the Prime Minister, and there is no deputy of Mr. Dacic, I will direct it to the parliamentary group of the majority. About visa liberalisation, something's going on, it's an important thing, it was a big pre-election promise. Suddenly, the president of your party says yesterday -- let's no longer bid on dates when we're going into white Schengen. At the same time you're going to the Vozdovec campaign with the slogan "Schengen White, Leader wants you." What's the reason for this brake with the white Schengen? I'm asking the government, but since she's not answering, I'm asking most of them, hoping it will affect the government's response. Is it the quality of the passport? That's one possible reason for the white Schengen problem. Is the number of passports issued? About 450,000 were issued passports. What's two-thirds, what number do we have to issue? The president of your party and the President of the Republic Mr. Tadic said yesterday - new equipment should be purchased. So, passport quality, passport number. Do we have the exact data as far as it's been issued and how much longer it takes to be betrayed? Is the problem with white Schengen dual citizenship? What do we share with our hands and hats, what do we want for anyone who feels Serbian, even if his name was John Smith and lived in Australia, and he says he's a Serb, that he should get a passport? Or Serbs from Republika Srpska or maybe Montenegro, as you plan to open a consulate every 50km from the White Field to Herceg Novi? Obviously, it's meant to give passports and ID cards. Is that a problem in Brussels? So many dual citizenships we intend to undermine? Is it a problem to give passports to Albanians from Kosovo? You, Mrs. Kolundjia, said yesterday that these anti-Europeans from the DSS were recording only to harm our efforts for the white Schengen. I think Parliament has done everything in its power to the white Shengen. Is it an attempt to regain responsibility here again, even though it's obviously a responsibility in the government? We've passed all the laws from the road map. So there's some kind of stalemate in the government. I'm saying, these are all possible reasons for a delay in the white Schengen. And if he did, it's clear as soon as Tadic says - don't bid any more. So something happened. What happened? I'm just stating possible arguments for the white Schengen problem. Is it a problem that we are now asked to show how we apply the laws we have adopted? If that's it, then we came to what the LDP was saying. It's not about adopting laws, it's about applying them. Is it, for example, the application of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, because of the Roma in Germany? Because we know that the Secretary of State at the Department of Justice, as soon as he arrived from Washington, flew to Berlin. Is there a problem with law enforcement? Normally, Minister Jeremic doesn't seem to be able to travel to Berlin anymore, so someone else has to. Is that the problem? I've listed five or six possible reasons, which seem to us to be a problem with the white Schengen. I ask that the government, and you influence the government, answer whether any of this is a problem or all of this is a problem, so at least we know when this Vozdovac, who wants a white Schengen, will, unlike Zemun, who doesn't want it, get that white Schengen. It was a pre-election promise. Now it's not a campaign, except for those two municipalities. Your president says, let's not mention dates anymore. That seems suspicious to us. We know that what I said must be the reason, and maybe they're all, so let's tell the truth to the people. This is important for the LDP because for years, through the European Liberal International, we have also been trying to push through visa liberalisation. Now something's happened all of a sudden. We want to know what happened. Serbian citizens, I'm absolutely sure, also want to. Try to influence the President, from that position, even better on the Deputy Prime Minister (it, I guess, has a greater impact) to answer us. Since the passports are here, he'll know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19097	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19098	I would like to ask Mr Mladjan Dinkic, to explain to the citizens, the Serbian public and, above all, the MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia – on which the data is based on his optimistic assessment of the state and effects of the financial crisis on the economy and the citizens of Serbia, why is there no other public and those who need to take measures and decide on them, and whether the government has considered any further steps to get out of the crisis or is all reduced to what Mr Dinkic published in the means of information, which is that the only measures that remain in the money pump? We all know that there are problems with budgeting, that the inflows in the budget are difficult and never at a lower level, so I wonder where Mr Dinkic thinks he's doing that steaming. I ask the question only to him, because he, acting Deputy Prime Minister, has taken over all the powers, and Minister of Finance and Prime Ministers and all other ministers dealing with the economy, concluded with the Governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic. To say simpler, monetary policy, fiscal policy and all other policies concerning businesses and citizens are currently in Mr Dinkic's hands. I think this question, addressed to him, is talking about one more thing. The gentleman changed his role model, he announced that his current role model, Comrade Tito, at credit time and borrowing, is ready to change the criteria for assessing economic growth, the methodology for surplus or budget deficit, is ready to change the country's goals, economic policy, just so he doesn't change his function. Can we, as a state, allow ourselves to define all economic policy and measures by a man whose results are evident and whose consequences of such quality work are suffered by many institutions? And the evidence is privatisation, 25% of broken contracts, the situation in the banking system, the lending of the economy, without the subsidy laws, is not done in banks, but is done by one minister to regulations. So please, in the interests of the public and the survival of this country, that as soon as I get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19099	Mrs. Pop-Lazic advertised the Rules of Procedure, but she's gone. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colakovic, Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – the proposal of the Security Law on road traffic (principal search) Mr Dragan Stevanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19100	I'm having a little bit of a tough time with the technique, considering we haven't been here in a month. I'll remind you, you've thrown us out of here brutally. But we're going to master this technique, it's not that complicated. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that Mr Dacic is not here, since yesterday, opening this principle debate, and then closing it after 1800 hours, I would like to ask him a few questions for which I, on behalf of the SRS, would like to ask him questions. Since he's not here, I'm going to refer these two questions to the government's representatives. Before I set them up, I'll say it might be a good thing Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's here. In principle, the SRS will concentrate its story on the parts of this law relating to the sector managed by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, while in the debate in particular it will pay more attention to and focus on those parts of the law that it intends to deal with, rather so, I would say, usurper and monopoly when it comes to this law. Before we move on to the law and the story, I would like to ask the representatives of the government - who is to blame for not entering the procedure in the Serbian Parliament for six years? I am interested in this because the parliamentary majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia have, in their arrogance and arrogance in the past months, accused the SRS of it, that this law is not in the process precisely because the SRS is causing obstruction, which is why people on the streets are killed. Yesterday, we hear from Deputy Prime Minister, First Vice-President and Minister that the law has not been in the process for six years, so it would not be bad for us to hear from the government's representatives whether the obstruction of the SRS is really a reason or something else why we haven't had this law in the assembly procedure so far. That there is no dilemma of anyone here or in public, the SRS has no dilemma at all that Serbia needs a law that will regulate the area of traffic security. But our view and opinion is that the way you try to do it, right through this law, is not good enough, that the law is unsettled, that some things are overlooked, that some things will not be answered, given that there is one very difficult legacy after nine years of its own party of democratic implementation, since these same nine years, in principle, we have wasted and that some, as they like to say, the provisions of this law that are in line with the world's high standards, in principle, come across a wall here, will not be applicable in practice. We believe that this law, which today is before us after six years, is exactly what it is because of the fact that it originated in the atmosphere in which it came into existence. It was created in an atmosphere where the first version of this law was clashed, i.e. on different sides, by representatives of science and representatives of the MUP. That's what the public said very openly, only the government's representatives wouldn't talk about it. That's why this law hasn't been in the process for six years. For the SRS, it is devastating, and it looks like the executive power in Serbia, that when such an important law comes to pass, the executive authority is not prepared to install in this law everything that represents the most scientific, professional or empirical values, in any area to be done, in this case, it is the area of traffic. I repeat, instead of installing in this bill everything that is most valuable in Serbia when it comes to the traffic profession and all those sectors that are united in this law, you have also found a reason, space and motive to argue and to split up, but for those internal problems, you have accused someone who has not had objectively any touch points with it. I am interested in, on behalf of the SRS, whether today someone in the government feels part of the responsibility because of the fact that in Serbia today 800-900 people die on the roads of Serbia today. This problem, as a problem, is impossible to absorb completely, but if because of the adoption of this law, even in a worse version, three years ago you improved traffic safety by 3%, calculate how many fewer people would have died or died on the street. Today, the government comes before us and boasts that it has done the law in accordance with European standards, and those innocent victims are blamed by someone else, the one who is sitting in opposition and allegedly causing obstruction. To move on to the field of compensation, but great damage. You have also admitted in this law that Serbia does not have built mechanisms of analysis, i.e. until the end of data monitoring and processing of these data related to material damage at the annual level. You're saying that, after all, she's about a billion euros a year. I ask you again – does anyone feel responsible for it? Would that damage, if it had been reduced by 100 or 200 million euros, say, on an annual basis because of the application of the Traffic Safety Act in time, would that money have anywhere to invest and invest? Could we save that money and invest in creating new human resources, raising standards in the field of traffic security, that we can really say today or tomorrow that we are acceptable and that someone in us can see adequate partners? This country, and this area of traffic security for the last nine years, has been running a verse. We're a ship without helms, and it's no wonder what's happening to us is all that's happening to us, even when it's the area of traffic security. Through a principled debate, we will try to point to several segments of this law that make the same non-applicable in Serbia. It is easy to talk, promote and praise this law, speaking of standards that are acceptable for everyone in Serbia, regardless of political definition. Just to be clear, the SRS has no objection to some penalties, some of the measures provided for by this law being rigorous and even dragonous. I think the time behind us and in general our experience has shown that, in principle and mostly, the mechanisms of force can be put in order, if I may say so. It's not bad, but there's something that government representatives, and the rich and the congregation majority, are bypassing, something they won't talk about, which is, I repeat, standards. Standards that are largely related to the area you will be dealing with, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as Minister of Infrastructure, or your transport sector. Serbia has done little in the area to make the law widely applicable in practice and on the ground. We will, through very concrete examples, individual examples from the local level and from the state level, try to base these arguments on our own, that is, our claims. For the SRS, the law is unacceptable because it is not fully in line with the Law on Violations and the Law on Roads and, Mr. Minister, you will have this big problem. Later we will explain specifically why, and Mr. Dacic said yesterday - the law will be inadmissible until the law on violations is amended. So he admitted that the law would be inadmissible. Someone's been doing it for three days, but it's gonna be inadmissible. And there's no one in the government right to say that we're wrong when we claim that the law is inadmissible. You're legally predicting the agency. I assume that this agency that you're predicting is in the spirit of the government's austerity, which you promote in all your mouths and that you're burying the public in Serbia. All that is happening in this law, this agency and other agencies and bodies that you predict through the laws that are also on the agenda of this session of the Assembly, says that you really don't seriously think about the measures of saving the government and that you are still the victim of political blackmail and rotten compromises on which the coalition that makes this government is built. The fact that this law will be inapplicable gives us the right to realize that you have dealt with this law only on a flat-rate basis even though it is very important and very important. I think, in essence, that he will serve you only that, I think, in one debate and in one place I said, in those quarterly reports where you boast that you adopt laws that serve to implement your national integration programme, change the percentage ratio in favour of adopted laws, and what they are completely inapplicable or partially or in the most non-applicable part, you don't care. There is no public debate on this law. As much as you say it is, there's no public debate. You even admitted it somewhere. The public debate is led by a law adopted by the previous Ministry of Capital Investments, namely the draft law of the previous government. They boasted that the bill included many opinions and views of the public. Maybe that's how it is, I don't slow down, but I repeat, in what atmosphere this law has come into being. This law has bypassed a serious public debate. If that were the case, many people in the profession say. And maybe that public debate was behind closed doors. We had conversations to approach and review this law with as much content and quality as possible, and we were told about this law by people from the profession. They spoke, and I would take this opportunity to thank the people of the Community for their conversations, advice and suggestions. They made some suggestions and suggestions that were acceptable to us as SRS. Some of these proposals we tried to overturn and install through amendments into the law. Some were unacceptable to us, and we made it very clear and unequivocal. Yesterday, Mr. Ilic said from this pay phone that the amendments to the SRS are very correct and constructive. I think you should pay attention to them, listen to them, analyze them, and adopt these same amendments and install the text of this law. The amendments, I repeat, are meaningful. The amendments are all contrary to what one yesterday, the day before, or in the last few days, tried in the means of public information to speak, how the opposition submits pointless amendments. We also think, and we will comment on that, that you have also denied the coordination body that will participate in the implementation of this law as representatives of science. I think it was defined differently in the previous text of the law. You could have accepted that version. I'm saying again, it's probably a relapse of your conflict that has arisen in the process of making the first version of this bill. Of course, we find the law inapplicable in that part where you transfer certain powers to local self-government and we'll talk about it a little later. It's inapplicable, too, in the part where you've provided for dragon penalties. These dragon penalties, as well as many others, will devise perhaps good intentions, because it will not be possible to implement them in practice, will not be possible to collect criminal provisions. I'll remind you, and later we'll say a little bit more about it, in this law on legal entities in Serbia, you'll provide for fines of up to two and a half million. The fines of two and a half million dinars are forecasted in a country where 60,000-70,000 legal entities are inequitable, with a trend of growth, and who knows how many are on the liquidity line. On the other hand, from public enterprises in Serbia, to which these criminal measures also apply, 14 of them made 1,600,000 euros in debt last year. I ask you - what are the financial capacity to implement these envisaged measures, charge and realise in the field? That's what the law's gonna come up with. Those who don't have to pay, it doesn't mean anything to you that they won't pay you or you'll try to force them. On the other hand, those who might have the means to pay, you control you, you manipulate you, you are targeted, and, objectively, will be released from these payments. That's what's pointless and that's what points to the fact that one serious, responsible and standard-based approach to this law has not been made. Also, it should not be covered, it cannot be burdened with the last government, but the legacy that Serbia has today, as regards spatial, planning documentation, the state of traffic infrastructure, the application of some other laws in this area, will also prevent the application of this law. Certain members of the law will be decapitated, their application in practice completely unusable. I will later touch these examples, list them very specifically, and they specifically refer to the chapters of this law – roads, traffic signalling. You, for example, have not adequately dealt with the protection belt of the road through these laws, etc. Since we're slowly bringing an end to these first 20 minutes, I'm going to sort of conclude this discussion. So the law is, above all, the irresponsibility of the government, the expression of the bad and the sick atmosphere in which it originated. The SRS finds that the outcome of the application of this law will be in principle such that, in its final goal of dissuasion, it will return to you, according to the boomerang system, completely contrary to the effects you wanted to achieve and apply in the field through these legal provisions. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19101	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. There's a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19102	Madam President, yesterday, as well as other fellow Serbian radicals, after that brutal eviction, I began working on new technical equipment at the House of the National Assembly. Now I have an objection, in accordance with the article. 121, 122 and 123. The Rules of Procedure, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I strongly protest the fact that we do not identify ourselves in the manner prescribed, in the spirit of the Serbian language and in what is our custom. Namely, in the electronic system that shows you the application for the word first stands the name and the name of the MP, so Ilic Mr Velimir is now registered to you, and he knows that he would present himself everywhere and in every place as he is listed in the electoral list, as he writes in all other documents, in any application, that he is Velimir Mr Ilic. Isn't that right, Mr. Ilic? Am I right? You will never say, because we are not in the Bundestag, but in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you are Ilic Velimir, but you will say that you are Velimir Ilic. As Mrs Pop-Lazic will not say to herself that Pop-Lazić is Gordana, but Gordana Pop-Lazic, and in her case, and in Mr Stevanovic's case, the same happened. Therefore, they are not in line with you, Madam President, and you should warn the service, identification cards with the voting system. On these cards of ours (I apologize, colleague Popovic). ) It says Judita Popovic well, and you have a different identification. Tell me, please - who was playing with these chips, what was Mrs. Pop-Lazic talking about, and what else is in the identification chip? You have to give us some explanation. It's not a problem now, as Dragan Stevanovic said earlier, whether we're going to be stalking each other. Because it's no problem, it's people, when it comes to these young people, Serbian radicals, who with highly sophisticated equipment, but please, let someone give us an explanation of why we are mocking the National Assembly in what we are as a people and above all as citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19103	This is actually a reminder for me, and I will try to speak in accordance with the spirit of what is common in our midst. Mr. Ilichu, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19104	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the People, I could speak very long about this law because I was working on its work as soon as I took office in 2004. I would like to give some clarifications, which may explain to some here why it took six years for this law to enter parliament, although it should have been done, in my opinion, in 2005, because everything was ready without any problems. However, we have made a modern, modern, European and world law, made by the largest experts in Serbia and, simply, we have delivered such a law to the Ministry of Finance. You know the finance minister always gives an opinion, on every law. However, the finance minister then reacted and verbally told me: "You are making a law that will take us a great deal of money from the budget. We need the law to bring us the money." That's the point. So, we're not making a traffic safety law to keep traffic safe, to get fewer people killed in Serbia (we know that over the past years it's been much more, that it's now reduced mortality by 200), but we're already making a law that will put more money in the register and that's good for the finance minister, of course. What exactly is this about? We wanted the law to be really applicable and to protect all traffic participants and, as a law, to reduce the mortality in traffic accidents, which was at that time drastically large - over 1,100, 1,200 deaths, so we reduced somewhere to 900 last year, by improving, repairing roads, etc., and more than 26,000 people were injured, annually, of which more than 18,000 permanent people were disabled. What happened? You know that our roads and one part of the big highways still don't have, unfortunately, and they never got used permission. What does that mean? As soon as someone gets killed on the road that was put into traffic and doesn't have a license, it's the state's fault. Why can certain directions never get a valid permit? Because they are made and are not fully respected certain legal regulations and certain projects are done to ensure that traffic is completely safe. It's happening today, too. We have a piece of highway that doesn't have any underpasses, no overpasses, no crossings. The peasants, if they want to go from the other side of the road to process a field that, by chance, is cut in half, they have to go 20 km in one direction and 20 in the other. The ones in the morning, they break through the bank, the protective fence, and pass by the vehicle. We've got cultivators, we've got tractors, and we don't have alternative roads along fast traffic, especially with large parts of extremely traffic. Thirdly, we did not want to invest from the budget, so that the law would be fully applicable, in black spots, which is a special commission that we have defined in Serbia. So where they die most, they're black dots. And they need to be removed for traffic to be completely safe. The state was obliged to provide funds from the NIP at the time and to remove all black spots in the state, which were extremely important for safe traffic. We've removed some. Let's just take Bor's head. After the release of Borova Glava, which is an extremely large investment, there were no car accidents, none of the dead were on the route. Let's take the Ovcar bath, the tunnel, the investment extremely expensive. By removing black spots, there are no more car accidents. Let's take the Sitch ravine, there were so many black spots in the tunnels, it couldn't be entered with two vehicles at the same time, but if one doesn't brake and miss the one who has the right to the championship, it's a mandatory car accident. The number of traffic accidents has been significantly reduced, but the investment was tens of millions of euros. We had to remove those most important black spots. But to this day they are not removed. Tickets in certain cities, can't be safe traffic in Užica until a bypass is made, because over 600 tolls per day enter the city's closest area. You can regulate traffic as much as you want in front of primary schools by police, but if you have hundreds of speedboats passing by, there's enough attention and there's a car accident going on. Let's take the entrance from Hungary through Kelebia, she's unhappy, I think, Zagreb Street from Saturday, technically impossible to run traffic until it's settled in another way, by bypass. Then, the bypass around Wrabbes, around Somboro. In Novi Sad, we did it in a few cities. There's no safe traffic until the tour of the New Market is complete. You can punish as much as you want, but there's no security. So, in safe traffic, the state has to invest considerable resources. But the others, who needed money from the NIP for other jobs and other projects, didn't pay attention to this, they said -- we can't invest that much in traffic, in infrastructure, but let us make a profit out of it. Of course, now we're going to punish, the fines are drastic, we're going to have huge incomes. We have proposed an amendment that these revenues go exclusively into removing these black dots. Let's take the Rattlefoot, that's the black spot, and there's so much death that it's not possible anymore. You can do whatever you want, but until the railroad and road issue is resolved, so they don't level up, there's no safe traffic. And there are extremely many cases throughout Serbia. So we wanted one law that would cost the state and we knew it couldn't all be done at once. We knew it was one process, but every year with the resolution of many black spots and these very dangerous zones on certain cars, we're significantly reducing the number of car accidents. However, we failed to do so. Then we prayed for certain local administrations to respect the Space Plan of Serbia, and I will return here again, which is not respecting the traffic strategy, or the strategy for the development of traffic that has been adopted in parliament, but many of the problems in traffic are being resolved by political means. Why the political way? Because a certain politician with a particular group is asking to support the government, to do so and otherwise not support the government. And we have to step away from the Traffic Development Strategy, which was adopted in the Serbian parliament, and accept projects that have never entered the Development Strategy nor as an alternative. Why? Because traffic is done as individual politicians say, not as a traffic study has been done several times. It's impossible to make a car, a highway where there are 2,000 cars a day, and not work it where there are 26,000-27 000 cars a day. We now have a great deal to do with the European Union. We say - it's the EU's interest, let's do it to them. If it's the EU's interest to help her, let's get into the joint business, but to help with various reliefs. I was a minister against making highways to the Macedonian border, but I was a priority for making Horgos-Požega-Bar. I was a priority for Nis-Dimitrovgrad. Why was I against the Macedonian border? Because there's no traffic. Currently, outside the tourist season in Greece, traffic is between 2,000 and 3,000 cars a day. The highway, to be safe, must be maintained. Keeping the highway is expensive. The highway if it doesn't have 8,000 cars a day, technically it can't be maintained. Traffic security, if traffic is not maintained by European criteria, cannot be high-level. We have invested 1,600 euros in maintaining kilometers of highways, and Europe is, for example, Europe. in that period, more and more invested in maintaining kilometers of highways. One kilometer you can't just overlay, do a traffic change and tag with so little money. Exceptionally few funds are invested in maintaining road infrastructure, and more and more are being reduced each year, as these funds from tolls are being used to build new road infrastructures. That's why we need to change a lot of things if we think traffic is safe, not just bring down criminal provisions. It's true that fastening the belt reduces the number of deaths, but it can't be the priority of the state and just control it. As a minister, I was exclusively against that jumping out of the police bushes, hiding with radar to catch someone who was faster than allowed. They know exactly where they sit. They should be visible and visibly marked that they are there to prepare each driver, reduce speed because he knows he will encounter radar control, not that they surprise him to get as much money as possible. Preventive action in improving traffic itself and reducing traffic accidents is what I was talking about, where it had to be invested, works etc. Can any police provide safe traffic in the Gazela zone if 160,000 were driving on Gazela in the course of one day? So, 160,000 cars a day crossing Gazela. Traffic can't be safe. You can put one cop next to the other, there's nothing to it. Is it possible for Belgrade to talk for 20 years about the construction of a bridge that will reduce traffic, about the construction of a bypass that will draw traffic from the city zone? It's going very slowly. And this year, in addition to the extraordinary efforts of Mr. Mrkonjic, whom I fully support and who is making extraordinary efforts, small funds continue to be invested for bypasses around Belgrade. A tour around Belgrade must ensure traffic safety, a highway cannot be drawn without special protection in the city's area and served as a city traffic station. The highway in the Belgrade city zone also serves urban traffic, the doubles bus exits, and all this significantly reduces traffic safety and therefore has daily traffic accidents. Is it possible for the city of Belgrade to realize that it must participate in the construction of a bypass around Belgrade? Second, building a bridge at Zemun, Zemun-Krnjak, will reduce significant traffic jams, and thus improve security. It's impossible to go on the Pančeva Bridge across the street on November 29th. Traffic intensity is growing so much every year, it's technically more impossible. Dangerous materials cannot be transported by rail and road through Belgrade through the city's narrowest zones and go to the panic industry and the rest. All of this, fortunately, has not had any major tragedies, but prevention does, this problem has to be resolved. So, once again, I'm not just being punished and I'm not competing for as much punishment as possible, but the question is how are we going to slow down traffic with these penalties? How long will it take for me from Cacko to get to Belgrade, some irresponsible ones haven't allowed concessions to be made and traffic security on the Ibaric Masteral? Let's take last weekend, there's seven dead at the Ibari Master's. Is anyone thinking about that security? The number of cars in Lazarets is 27,000 a day, with Celli more than 17,000 a day. It can't possibly be a safe traffic anymore. You can set up radars, whatever you want, but there's no security if you cross the 8,000 car number daily on the master's road. Therefore, I ask that through our amendments that we have made this law so that it lasts as long as possible, that traffic is really safer, not that we intimidate drivers, that they travel for three or four hours a hundred and a few kilometers, as is happening now. Here, respect all traffic signs, we measured it, and take Friday or days of the weekend (Saturday, Sunday) and go from Belgrade to Cačka, you will travel five hours. Do not run on a full line, respect every traffic sign. Take the vehicle, go and see. Who will use it now, and what will this highway serve? Once again, it was a sin to stop the concession. It was said to work parallel to the highway. Why wasn't 10 kilometers worked in Vojvodina, and 10 headed for the Ibaric Master's Department? Now give it to those who've been holding the concession... I know it was a condition to support the government to stop the concession. We now, as Serbia, worship them with a NIP or a credit line, and we have honored them, because we took a credit for Beška, for Temerinska loop, for the Novosad loop, for the reconstruction of Novi Sad - Subotica, which was done three years ago, for the completion of Belgrade - Novi Sad, we have honored them, the whole of Serbia, for Belgrade-Vršac, for Belgrade, through Srem, to the Croatian border, and they did not want to participate in some part of the funds so that the unfortunate Shumadija, Pomorgovlje and Western Serbia would gain traffic security. How do parents feel when their students and children go to Belgrade on weekends? They're in the bare water until they hear from us. When they say "we're here," thank God. Can someone still keep it from building there on the highways? How many times is it, gentlemen, traffic at the Ibaric Master's of Novi Sad - Subotic? Multiple. Why didn't the Greeks make a highway through Greece to Corridor 10? Because their minister himself told me - Mr. Ilic, we have no interest because traffic is very small, only in the tourist season for two or three months. Why don't they take part in the Helenik programme, too, but they've been putting off that hundred million euros for years, so we can do it? The ravine ravine is an extremely expensive project, and that's why it's been giving up all this. Therefore, NATO aims to connect its bases with Europe on the highway. That's why he's dragging us into the story. Come on, do this. Even during Slobodan Milosevic, an initiative has been launched, and during my term of office, that part of Belgrade's corridor -- the southern Adriatic to the Bar will be the short of Corridor 10. After the bombing, it was taken off the agenda. That's why we've connected Horgos-Pozeg, so that we can use part of Corridor 10 to get permission for this part to be the leg of Corridor 10, as it was done for Nis-Dimitrovgrad's arm. Stopping the concession means that part of the Belgrade-Bar corridor, where Serbia's development strategy was defined not for Thessaloniki and the Macedonian border, but for Serbia, with Montenegro, has defined that the Belgrade-Bar highway is parallel to Belgrade-Bar... Mr. Ilic, it's been 20 minutes. Bring the end of the discussion. )......................................................................................................... And to be the main Serbian corridor, through the heart of Serbia, which would significantly... (President: Do you want to take from the time that belongs to your parliamentary group? You can if you want. Here, I'll be done in a second. (President: Mr. Gristle, please. I'll keep going. Make it 20 minutes, that's enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19105	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Road Safety Act is another one in a series of laws that are torn between our wishes and our possibilities. In objective terms, against such a law hardly anyone in the developed world could oppose or ask for too many grudges and too many faults. After all, I suppose that the law has been modelled by what they are in the EU at least, and I think in countries that are not EU members, they have long done or worked intensively. I couldn't complain too much about it, because I'm trying to put myself in the role of those who, because we don't regulate traffic relations, lose a member of my family, and now I need to tell my father or mother, my brother or sister, the child, that I don't need to punish unconscious drivers, that I don't need to rule out face traffic under the fact of alcohol, narcotics, a lunatic who sits behind the wheel, a lunatic who's walking in the corners on a full line, who goes into red light. This, of course, will have the support and general public, especially those who are terrified when they sit behind the wheel or when they send a child to take the sidewalk and on foot crossings to kindergarten or school. But immediately, the question arises whether the implementation of this law will be reduced exclusively to rigorous punishment and whether it will take over one of the functions that you have apostrophe here, which you have called "police officer", which becomes a traffic control god, to regulate traffic relations and to treat drivers. We don't have roads where traffic can be secured. We don't have cars that are safe for traffic. The bill promoter shouldn't have told us here that at least half the fleet should be shut down immediately. You're all in traffic, some of you are driving, and some of us are driving alone, and you know how many times in the night you meet a car that doesn't have one or both lights. How many times does someone hit you in the back or hit you or catch you because his brakes don't react at all? Not because he wasn't paying attention, but because his car is absolutely technically invalid. Besides, a car over 10 can't be technically correct. Now let's take people's cars away and say, "You can't get into traffic, you're going to risk traffic safety." This law needs to be passed. Not in the form that's in front of us now. I guess we'll have to change it as soon as we can, when we decide. If the law's intensities are to reduce the number of deaths, he can't come across too much rejection and resistance, but if it's his duty to take the beating into his own hands again, then the law must not be accepted. I've been worried about many terms and many institutions in this law. Like, a vehicle interceptor (what's not a cruiser? ) – unmarked police vehicle not subject to traffic regulations. Excuse me, what does that mean? In a civilian car are the police going to chase traffic offenders? A police car that regulates traffic must be clearly marked. There's no secret service in the traffic police. If we have to put up with BIA and VBA, we certainly won't let the uniform police officers in civilian vehicles with civilian plates, break regulations, teach brains, and learn traffic safety on the roads. You've provided fines for parents whose children commit a traffic violation. You predicted a whole series of fines, not binding them to members of the law, which is very suspicious. For each sentence provided for in the criminal provisions, a member who has been broken must be indicated. And you have a whole series of provisions described -- a person who does that and does that. Well, that's supposed to be illegal somewhere in the law. You're introducing new norms into criminal provisions, descriptive, descriptive norms, and now they're going to evaluate the judge. And I'd especially like to warn you of the band that exists today, the entire mafia that exists today at the time of the judge-skiller-police relationship. Today you can commit the most serious traffic violation, the most serious offense with the deadly consequences, and not answer as much as you can under the law. I have a case in which, under the pretext of saving a 26-year-old boy and punishing a 70-year-old uncle and something who was driving a tractor, in an accident with fatalities, the expert said that the accident was not affected by the alcoholism of that young driver and was not affected by his dioptria six, and he wasn't wearing glasses. He says--he's been living with that dioptria all his life, he's acquired his measurements for distance, for speed... So, the boy who was denied for military examination as incapacitated for military service, the next day he got medical assurance that he could drive a motor vehicle. There's a whole series of court-laws who, along with their lawyers, can get you out, save you from any punishment for traffic violations. Because it counts on us when there's a car accident, even when someone gets killed, that's how it had to happen. We all drive, we never know when any of us are going to commit that offence and don't judge too much the one who commits some kind of offense because it can happen to you, too. A normal man can't do it and can't do it. He needs to be aware of the role of a police officer on the way to as little as possible. If you follow modern traffic regulation patterns, tell me where the cops run behind the bushes on the road, risking their lives. That's the case I had on the highway, when I barely stopped the car, because he had to run to the left lane, and I was pushing the truck to stop me and risked his life. Of course I came back after 100 meters in reverse and asked him what he needed. One night at the entrance to Kragujevac, I found a police patrol who typed out the solutions to the violations of a typewriter on the hood and said they couldn't go. They're past their shift, but they haven't met their standard yet, so they're stopping everything in order. They found each one of them, a hand brake, a signalling... So when they suspect, they send for an extraordinary technical examination. I see I can do it again now. Then why do we have regular technical checks? What's the authority of a police officer to send you to an emergency technical inspection at any moment? Don't you have any security when you're technically checking and registering for a year? It shall determine whether the vehicle is invalid and the regular technical examination shall guarantee that the vehicle on that side will be correct until the next technical examination. Or maybe there's a lot going on in the technical exam. But then you have to do different facial controls that conduct a technical examination. This is where you predicted that the police could even retain a person who committed a traffic violation within 24 hours, until the judge of the offenses started to work, so that he would punish him under the Law of Infractions that he had not yet agreed with. And it's for a violent ride. Twice don't fit on a stop sign or run on a full line, a police officer leads it under a violent drive and has the right 24 hours to keep his face. If you'd sat down to fabricate harsher punishments, I don't know if you'd remember anything else. And the government's responsibility for the state of the roads, for the railway crossings, which no one has mentioned here, where most people in traffic die, there's no such thing here at all. You're forming another agency. We're a little bit of an agency, we need another one. Plus some directorate, made up of ministers. Just "come on Ali, that's more army," and basically, everything will be left on the scene again. I'm asking you to be nice to mark the places where the fixed radar will stand 365 days a year, so that the driver gets from the judge for a misdemeanor solution, with proof that he committed an offence, that it doesn't depend on a police officer. Yesterday, the minister here boasted that a police officer would hand over receipts, so the driver himself would pay for the offense. Yeah, he's gonna give him a receipt if he doesn't deal with the driver how much money this guy gives him, not give him a receipt. And now we need to pay special attention to the employees of the police. I really want these people to be fully protected, so that their safety is not questioned at all, but I want their subjective right to decide who they will punish and who they will not. If you want order, and this is one of the laws that leads to order, then a police officer must be paid well and not be prone to corruption, or he must be severely punished for any such offense, which means you have to have special police units from completely clean people who are going to be tortured by the police. Until that happens, I don't believe at all that you can enforce the laws that introduce order. Orders must be introduced by absolutely clean people, unsullied, professionals. You have 70% of Serbia's police force in Belgrade. And torture those kids for 15 or 20 years. He lives in Kragujevac, marries, has one child, another child, and travels to work in Belgrade because there are not enough police in Belgrade. And he can never get a transfer to Kragujevac, Sombor, Nis, but stays mostly in police boarding schools. He's 40 years old, started a family, built a house in his hometown, or lived in a village with his parents, and his whole life, he's an SUV just because he works with the police. Does he feel that he has some moral right to charge for being punished by the state to live apart from his family? On the one hand, it protects citizens who enjoy peacefully and do not want to deal with this police work, start a family and send their children into the street, ask them to protect them in traffic both from drug dealers and those who are engaged in subversive activities, and personally cannot take care of their children because they have not been with them their whole lives. He believes he has created such a vision that the state owes him something else. If the state won't give it to him, he'll be given a entrant in traffic, who's paid a lot more to take out some money and put it in documents that he's handing over than you're rigorously punishing him with 100, 200 or 300 thousand dinars for a violation he's committed. That's what to think about. Police work should be well paid, you should have great pass in the police, but you should also lose your job very easily in the police department. So come the best. This is something any of you can admit. How many children have called you these days with a request to help them enroll in high school or police academy? If they called me, and they know I have no influence on it, they must have called you who are in the ruling majority. Let it be a desirable job for our children, but let them know that they can lose it very easily and that they can also end up in prison if they do not do it at least to the extent that they require other Serbian citizens to do it. We cannot, of course, vote in favour of the laws proposed by such a ruling majority in which one part of it means nothing good to Serbia. One part of the MPs comes only to determine the quorum and voting day, and even speak openly - I go to Serbia, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I return to Vojvodina, to my country. Until you regulate these relationships, do not expect anyone who loves Serbia to help you pass any law, or even those who are obviously repairing the situation and obviously try to remove what haunts us all, which is, when you look at the first morning diary in the morning, how many broken cars will show you that night. You may be grateful for this law by many parents whose children drive each night in an alcoholic state. Perhaps one dragon punishment, then another, would make those children start to think about both their life and the lives of their parents who leave them forever toil. Maybe, but I repeat, if it turns into a police torture and if the citizens are exposed to the mercy and mercy of the police, if this poor girl of ours has to drive somewhere and sits in a car from which when she gets into a bar of water straight into the eye, if you punish that poor girl like this, if you can't stop those who have dark glass, jeeps or when you stop them and he curses you, so you can't do anything about it, then you haven't done anything. So, I'd like you to start punishing these "powerful guys" and publishing it in the media. Then I'd believe you decided to regulate something in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19107	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19108	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the DSS certainly believes it is worth passing a new traffic safety law. Moreover, I can argue that if you were to ask the rhetorical question to the MPs whether to pass a new traffic safety law, all 250 MPs would confirm it. The reason is simple - the law that is now in force was passed almost 30 years ago and, in my deep conviction, was not valid even at the time it was passed. Of course, by the logic of things, since in those thirty years much has changed in both political and economic, and especially in the technological system, both transport and traffic security funds, then it is normal to pass a new law, and that is not disputed. I ask those who are zealously defending this law to no longer convince us, they have no need to convince us. We need a new traffic safety law. When we are aware of the fact that the law currently in force was not valid even when it was passed, then I guess the logical question would be why it was wrong. Before you offer a new law, find out what's wrong with the old one. The answer is simple - the old law simply has the wrong logic embedded in it. But according to the DSS and in my humble belief, the law offered is bad because it kept that same wrong logic. That logic can be the simplest thing to do. The first point of view is -- the police are undecided and infallible, the second attitude is -- if the police are wrong, attitude 1. These two attitudes are consistently implemented throughout the law. I can give you dozens of examples in the law, and I'll only list some. For example. in Article 29, you prohibit a device for detecting and disrupting radar and other instruments used by the police to control traffic safety. The distraction, that's understandable, must not interfere with such devices. But why is detection forbidden? You know, some countries, for example. in German police officers every 20 km of radar, no police officer, you detect and reduce speed. I guess the goal is for people to respect regulations and drive at prescribed speeds. It's not about not respecting the rules to take his money. The police record remains a credible ID. So someone made a record that I went through the red light on that day and that day in the team and that car. I can prove that on that day I was in that car in Sweden, to prove by passport, to bring in ten witnesses, it doesn't matter -- if such a record is made, you will answer. I know, a friend told me, judges pull their hair when they're dealing with things like that. Furthermore, in the law of one letter, there is no need for internal police control to work on traffic security, one single letter, one single obligation to control these people. They have to control themselves. Do we need to make sure that in this entire system, especially when you gave the police unlimited authority, there are, of course, bribes and corruption and whatever you want? Everybody knows that. (President: Mr. Krasic, please do not disturb Mr. Shami as he speaks and we all take care of the atmosphere in the O.R. ) Furthermore, something is being introduced which is a fundamental idea of excellent - criminal points (they have, in various forms, in many countries in the world, in Europe above all), but again with the wrong logic. It's not an idea that he gets 18 points sooner to get his driver's license and then the police are going to run a new driving test (I stress this because it doesn't make any sense that the police have anything to do with the driver's test). No, the points should serve something else. They're supposed to serve it when someone collects six points, convince him through some system of education that he shouldn't get a seventh, or when he's 12 he shouldn't get 13 and not get 18 as soon as possible. However, unfortunately, the points here are understood as a naked system of repression, which of course should exist, I say, just to make sure, as Mr. Ilic said, that money is put into the budget. As much as it costs the state, on the other hand, I can assure you it's easy to calculate. Car accidents spend twenty times as much money as they earn on these fines. We, as a party, had a serious problem, because after the first reading of around 350 members, we first had an idea to write about 300 amendments. We gave it up and we only submitted 73 amendments. We just wanted to make it right and try to fix what bothers the most. Of course, some things were indisposable. A dozen members tied to these points should be replaced to change the overall logic. It's hard to do the amendment, but it could, in the end, be some of our homework, for a while that's coming. I am convinced that as many amendments as the MPs hand over, as many as you adopt them, you will have to make very quick amendments to this law. If you don't do it now, listening to the MPs, because our mouths are always full of Europe, one day Brussels will write you a new traffic safety law and then things will probably get in order. One more thing, DSSneeve filed no amendments to the sentence. There's a terrible problem here. We have come to the conclusion that if you adopt our essential amendments to make things easier or different, then the Transport Committee can also bring it into line with criminal provisions. Otherwise, for your own sake, look, I'm going to give you an example of how you've been doing your punishment system on the surface. When you overload the cargo vehicle by 5%, the penalty is higher than when you overload it by 20%. I have to admit, I don't understand that logic, but well, that's what you'll explain. To conclude, there will be an opportunity to cite a number of examples related to our amendments and to talk about it, so that there is a need for a new law, this for the DSS is not controversial, but unfortunately we think that the proposed text of the law is not good. In the end, let me tell Mr. Secretary that I'm very glad he's here and that I don't miss the other minister at all. Personally, I think that traffic security should primarily be dealt with by that ministry in charge of traffic and, of course, in its own domain, but only in its own domain, and other ministries – the Ministry of Health in its domain, Ministry of Education in its domain, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19109	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19110	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a pleasure to conclude, out of the reasons offered, with a wide range of analytical and transparent information provided by the applicant in support of the Road Safety Law proposal, one fundamental and professional approach to the draft law. Data that, since 1991, a little more than 17,000 people have been killed on the roads in Serbia without KIM, and in recent years, the number of injured young people in traffic, up to 14 years, have suffered a trend of increase in traffic accidents, which certainly concerns every parent in Serbia, and material damage that would reach four billion dinars by not taking any measures in 2012, seem really worrying and warn that new answers are needed, new solutions to significantly improve traffic safety on the roads in Serbia. It is good that the promoter has taken into account these problems and negative trends, followed modern solutions in the field of traffic security management and used experience from other countries with similar initial positions, notably Lithuania, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, to conduct a comprehensive expert debate, in which new solutions have been offered, but which has also shown that this law is not even police, that it is not a political issue, but that it has general importance for society. With such an approach, the Serbian Ministry of Infrastructure and the JP of Serbia proposed an extremely good law, with the primary objective of preventive action on all users, along with several very significant newspapers. In short, I can't mention them all, but I would like to mention those, in my opinion, the most important ones, which rely on key factors that most often cause fatal outcomes, which are, first of all, for all of us drivers and participants in traffic absolutely clear – speed, driving under the fact of alcohol, non-binding belts and wearing a helmet. In this respect, a special speed limit is introduced, and above all a reduction of the general limit in the settlement from 60 to 50 km per hour, as provided for in Article 43. I think it's a very good solution, especially if it's given that about 70% of the deaths in the settlements. The lower limit of the permitted concentration of alcohol in the body in the driver of 0.3 promil, which has so far been 0.5, is also proposed, significantly reducing the risk of a car accident. Perhaps most of us drivers would agree to have that lower limit and zero permeated, as in some countries in the environment, but the promoter, while respecting reality and flexibility, might have predicted this as some transitional measure. In addition to the ban on the transport of persons unable to manage their alcohol operations in the front seat (Article 31), there will be an additional reduction in the risk of a car accident. As regards the non-tethering factor, the use of a safety belt at all seats in Article 30 is envisaged and, of course, the obligation of a motorcycle driver, mopeds, tricycles and four-wheels to wear a safety helmet, which also respects this fourth factor, as significant for the death outcome, non-carrying helmet. From other newspapers, I would like to highlight the introduction of a test driver’s licence for persons aged 17 and who is subject to adulthood under the supervision of a adult person in a vehicle of at least five years of experience and some other conditions provided for in Article 182. I appreciate that this paper is important first of all because the data says that the most accident happens to drivers in the first year of driving. This way, the additional problem will be overcome. It is necessary, there is often a debated newspaper here for all drivers, something to say about the system of introducing criminal points, as a result of good practice in many countries and in EU countries. This is a special and specific system of monitoring driver behaviour, knowing that after 18 points are collected, the driver can lose his driver’s license and may show that he has either acted arrogantly or is not dressed enough and has to do it again. I appreciate that this will be rigorous enough and that after the seventh won't go into winning the eighth round after the 15th in winning the 18th. The proposed solutions will affect the general mobilization of our society in terms of increasing the awareness of all the importance of traffic security, and that is why all of us, as traffic participants, should contribute, first of all, to our conduct and consistent implementation of the law by all entities, because that is the only way in which appropriate targets can be achieved, but I would like to appeal to both participants and those in charge of controlling its implementation, to be consistent. In this way, the main objective will be achieved, to reduce the number of deaths by 50% by 2012 and in the first year by 10%, and also to achieve estimates of the return of funds in the security of traffic in multiple volumes. In view of all of this, the SPS-JS MPs consider the proposal for a traffic safety law extremely good and significant for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their votes will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19111	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19112	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, one of the most important things in life -- health, safety and the lives of citizens -- is ahead of us in the past few years, regardless of who is in power. The general lack of the bill, which is the creator of the MUP, is that it will not justify the formation of a modern traffic security system in line with good European and world practice. The MUP's stance that only by dragon punishment can reduce the number of traffic accidents in Serbia is not in line with modern understanding and will bring more damage than benefits, especially as it will create a strong internal resistance to respect for traffic rules. I've read you one of the views of experts or expert groups, and now I'm going to tell you how I, as a representative of the driver here in Parliament right now, because here we have a ruling coalition that will unreservedly support, of course, as well as all the laws proposed by their ministers and government, even though I know what they personally think about this law as drivers, and I think that Mr. from the MUP, taking my discussion on the previous Defence and Security Committee, knows my position on police and people who risk their lives for ridiculously small wages every day and care about our lives, hence, and security in traffic. They will understand my remarks on good faith, in the interest of improving traffic safety and implementing this law, which will obviously be adopted. Here's one of the colleagues, who isn't present, mentioned an anti-radar yesterday. Why would he bother an anti-radar police in any car? Let's say that I think it's a little more of the manners of those fashioned drivers, who are richer, so they can get those devices that cost 500 or 600 euros. Why would the police even bother an anti-radar in a car? That anti-radar suggests to the driver that there's a state radar out there somewhere, and he's going to cut speed. Isn't that the aim of the law, to reduce to risk shares the speed of the vehicle's movement, and thus some minimum procedure reduces the risk of causing a car accident? Furthermore, I want to tell you openly here, not to court you, as your ruling coalition will do. Citizens are very bitter about the police when they do what the president of the NS has already said, behind the truck, behind the bushes, behind the ropes, jump out in front of people. I was recently in a position to drive 90 kilometers, the truth 30 kilometers more than is allowed (although I don’t know why), and a man came out at a right angle to the vehicle. He almost risked his life. What do I do after, and I think that's what most Serbian citizens who are drivers think, if God forbid I hit someone? A man doesn't like to do an animal on the road, let alone a man. So, education -- yes, but education should be done in the police department, that they realize that these radars are not casinos, they're PDV cash registers, they're warning drivers. To make it visible to a few hundred, 600 meters, to slow the drivers down. Minister Dacic said yesterday how much goes directly to the police and how much to the budget. People think it goes 100% to the police. Then additional animosity is created for those who care about lives and traffic safety for little money. I want to draw attention to something that I hoped would not be in this law, that every driver is obliged to adjust speed to conditions on the road, or on the road. Just now, Mr. Nikolic was talking about court experts, court experts. You know what's under there that can be done. It's always the driver's fault. I think this law was supposed to make some sense. If I was driving at the speed allowed on the road, and there was no signalling on the road and there was an accident, then who else is to blame next to me, and I should have been careful without signalling? It's the tolls, and there's no law against them. Once again, I ask you, because of the shortness of time (we only have 11 minutes as a parliamentary group), I wanted to say to you well on purpose a few more things that every driver and every ordinary citizen would say to you. I think this law should reduce mortality on the roads. Many have rebelled, perhaps I have, for those belts, but it's obvious that fastening their seat belts has led to fewer people dying on the roads. I hope that this law will also contribute, which I believe is his primary purpose, that fewer people die on the roads, regardless of all these shortcomings he has, but mistrust between citizens and police will deepen. As a loyal citizen who understands the role of police and her difficult task, I think that trust should have been increased and otherwise provided to police resources. NS President Velimir Ilic just said about some finance minister - we need money. We need lives, life can't be paid. We'll find money elsewhere, we don't have to go over those drastic penalties to charge the budget without increasing traffic safety. It is a difficult task. The other question was how. I'm telling you how, to get the police's attention, you can do it by your internal regulations and regulations of service, not to be the basic task of the radar to charge the fines, as a symbol of that relationship between the citizens and the police, but to really reduce the speed on those risk shares. I've had so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19113	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. The word is made by MP Milan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19114	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the interior minister has well presented the law, followed by fellow Milosevic, who brought out a lot of details from the law itself and presented the law perfectly and I do not want to repeat all this. The law certainly is good. There are some places in the law that we must correct. We'll do it and we'll make some amendments, but we'll discuss it in detail. However, we are free of good law if the practice on the ground itself and the law enforcement itself does not go well. I want to point to that practice. There's been some kind of expropriation here that there's a problem with these penalties, that there's a problem with the traffic police. But I don't think it's their fault. In the past few days, I have spoken to several traffic police officers in several municipalities of Serbia and remained appalled. Literally every one of them told me that their bosses were assessing the effect. Their bosses are the people who are somewhere, somewhere in the middle of that hierarchy in the traffic police department. You know what the effect is for these people? For these people, the effect is sufficient to account for the number of penalties written. I hope we're all aware of how wrong this is. I hope we're all aware that this is not the purpose of the existence of a traffic police force. Their superior goal is to increase traffic safety on the roads, not to write penalties and charge budgets. Even if we put aside that money, it can't, which is particularly common in Belgrade, that at some crossroads we have a catastrophic rush, that we have a stalemate, which is why an hour's collapse is being made throughout the city, and at 100 meters from there, a traffic policeman writes a fine. Why? Exactly because of that standard. He had to be in front of that intersection, to regulate traffic. For traffic to run, that's his job. I think it's finally time to stop treating the consequences, to talk like this, directly into the core and treat the cause ourselves. I think that's the cause. Of course I have no intention of attacking drivers as primary culprits for everything that happens in traffic, because drivers are simply users of what we provide them with. Here, first of all, I mean the Parliament and the Government. This law, of course, had to come early and modernise this area earlier, but good. The debate lasted long, we have much more details in the law itself, so it can be solved, somehow accepted. On the other hand, they are equally responsible for those traffic inspectors who work in the municipality, who are municipal officials and are involved in public traffic. I'll give you an example from a small municipality in Serbia, where taxi traffic is badly regulated, where literally every vehicle that applies gets a license to work. It's not clear to me, though, that a number of these vehicles go through a technical inspection at all, but they get permission to work, and then we have a hundred taxis, and that same traffic inspector only provided them with five parking spaces downtown. Try to imagine what that part of the street where that number of vehicles wants to park and how fast traffic is going. I'd like to remind these people in the municipalities, who receive salaries exclusively to deal with traffic, that their mission is to help drivers, not to repay them. The next topic is all of us who have a driver's license. I'm particularly glad there are no more privileged drivers under this new law. We'll simply have video-record as evidence. What does that mean? That means a cop doesn't have to jump out of the truck like that anymore or out of some bush. It's just going to be shot by that jeep or a dark glass car, as we had the chance to hear, and they're going to pay the fine. I think it's actually prevention. We have to make sure the drivers hear they can pay the fine that way. If we weren't dealing with traffic police anymore, not to watch where the cops are, but to know that at every traffic light when it goes through the red and at every intersection where we make some kind of a misdemeanor that we might get to where we're going, there's some camera that's recording us. I think the primary objective of this law is prevention. I hope the Home Office gentlemen agree that the aim of this law is not to write penalties and change the practice of the traffic police themselves. I'm glad the chief of traffic police is here today. We have to deal, in fact, with prevention. A test traffic permit has been provided, and that's very good. It's good for the next reason. All young drivers who have a test traffic permit must drive in order to comply with all traffic regulations. I'm sure in a year they get that kind of driving style that actually respects traffic regulations and that's very good. I'd like to criticize again some of those arrogant drivers who drive too fast and too risky. They'll be able to pick it up very soon, I'm sure that's what's going to happen, the 18 points they're losing their license for. What does that mean? That means they have to re-test, re-train, to get a new traffic permit. It's a very good proposal in this law, because it's actually the right way to prevent it. Also, for any traffic accident that has a fatal event at the same time, along with other penalties, a traffic permit is lost. Or, two car accidents with bodily injuries, along with other penalties, a traffic permit is lost, and all over again from the beginning. And that's very good, and all the drivers must have it in their heads any minute now. It's a good thing that young generations of young legs, from now on, will have a traffic education and I think it's actually the best thing this law gives. These are these young generations that we won't have to correct, these are young generations that respect traffic regulations, in fact, will become a lifestyle. I want the traffic police less punishment. I want people who get paid to deal with traffic and actually do it and remind them once again that their mission is to help all drivers. I want all the drivers to get where they're going and to be much more tolerated towards the other drivers, especially motorcyclists and pedestrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19115	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19116	I wanted to ask a question of access to the making of such large and complex laws, which I find extremely important, such as traffic safety. I noticed that although this law explains multi-sectoral activity, no scientific approach has been applied and that there are no relevant research, which points to the basic causes of various car accidents and safety - deaths, injuries and various other offences. There's no cross-referencing with any statistics that's relevant. Even when it comes to, say, the age of a driver, we don't have a table to see which drivers in which years most often commit traffic violations. There's no such thing. You know that those who are over 65 every three years have to ask for a driver's license again, to go to medical examinations, and nowhere do you show why you're harassing these people and whether there's any scientific evidence that this population has more violations, that it's more risky than any other population. If you're talking about who's all traffickers, you need to see who's the main cause of this mess and the safety of our traffic. Nor do we have a criminal policy exposed here that has been conducted so far. What was the criminal policy? Please, I've been around the world and I've been an ambassador to countries that don't have a reputation for the country, but I'm saying, only in Serbia doesn't have a seat belt. When your criminal policy lifted your belts and why don't the police just punish you for it? For a number of things, stopping, parking, punishment is gone at all. This is the only country that doesn't apply these things. Please, it's in the law. Now you've brought some new things, you can't see how the capacity of criminal policy is increasing. What were the disadvantages of so far's criminal policies, who suspended certain penalties? Let's say, there's no research, so that anyone involved in traffic, respects traffic regulations, you have to show us the certainty and probability that someone will be caught and the probability that whoever caught him will be punished. It's just not there. There's no analysis of the criminal policy so far. It's like we're starting from scratch in this law. So you're giving us some UN data, so you're giving us some information from the World Bank, which you don't know when you hired here to do something. But let's see, this is where people say -- by feeling, because they're drivers. I agree with them, they took this seriously. Then they say, let's say, at the spring crossings, there's the largest number of accidents going on. Why didn't you take it and see where it was going? Is research being done to show, if you have a Belgrade-Nish highway, is it bigger or smaller or on the magistrate's? I'm going to say it's on the magistrate's desk because the road's no good, but you don't have any information about anything. You're also building an agency that doesn't have research activity. Then where are young psychologists, sociologists, who need to make factor analysis and give us one picture before a law like this is passed? Then he's talking about police behavior. The police are completely untrained in many things. Let's say she stops the car and she says, "Open the track in the back." With what right does he ask me to open it, based on what? It's a violation of human rights everywhere in Europe. On what grounds do you want me to open this or that? I mean, there's no police training. So what is the factor of the police themselves, which is corrupt, which is untrained. The minister said you'd prevent that corruption. Except for that objective guilt, that recording, I don't see a single item in this law that you will and in any way control corruption in the police, which is huge. When I say that, she's come up with those parts, say, in a technical examination. It's just that now some agencies are coming in where there's no need for a technical examination. But you don't have control mechanisms over the police themselves, but she's become a body in herself and by this law you're "inflating" only the government's sector and you consider that co-operation multi-sectoral. So, the MUP, the Ministry of Roads and "Serbia's Ways". And where, as the World Bank says, is the non-governmental sector in which you have some other professions, where you expand, where you're creeping into a modern society, except by one organ, one kind of activity, and that's police activity, that you're "inflating" in this function? We don't have any data on the signalling. You in Serbia have a catastrophic signalling. You come to the intersections where you have both left and right and right and you don't know where to go, you can ask or pray to God, if there are no people - should I go straight, should I go right? So signalling is catastrophic. I don't know what our traffic engineers are doing. What's the traffic department doing? It just doesn't pay attention to the signalling. Secondly, signalling is completely unrealistic. Finally, I would like to point out that the law, as you have now presented it, has a tremendous amount of sublegal acts, so that there is no idea what goes into effect with this law, what doesn't come into force, and can produce great confusion with citizens. Secondly, this law on violations has also not been passed. The agency wasn't formed either. So all that is predicted here, half of it is in law, half of it has yet to be passed by sublaws, which we have absolutely no control over. I still wanted to say how much trouble there is in the traffic police, how much traffic police absolutely don't do anymore. Let's just say, I used to be a saint when I passed London, and now that I see a cop standing, he turns left and wherever he wants, and he absolutely doesn't react. They just stopped, like they were strikein', doing nothing, they're nowhere else, they're retreating to some kind of illegal thing. I don't know how you're going to achieve these new standards now. Cell phone - let's see which one... You need to know that in the Netherlands, whenever I stop, he and that certainty that at the same time stopping will regulate without any dilemma, 100% will be there. Where will your people be when they're gone? Enter Kosovo Street, all stand parked, leave cars, you can't turn right, let alone left. Secondly, you have no decentralisation. Belgrade traffic is completely chaotically arranged, no intersection is arranged. Down by the Takowska Street, he can go here and there. All streets are two-way, no regulation whatsoever. What do they do, why don't they fix it? Why did you let the city authorities take pictures of stopped cars, send them to you and ask you to do something and take care of the city traffic? Who are you? Then why don't you let the city handle this traffic instead of writing letters to you all the time and filming cars that are improperly stopped and parked because they can't do anything? Secondly, why don't you, multisectorally, now lean on some services that work well, so that we can remove some absurdities that the MUP doesn't have to do? For example, zone parking in Belgrade has been modeled. Now, when I get out, the cafes stand like this, everyone who gets into the bar, like they used to do in cowboy movies when they tie a horse, so they sit in bars, put cars like this... And now the one that's absurd in Belgrade, that the one that goes with that machine, is in charge of those two corners, if you break two minutes, you get that sticker for 1,500 dinars and directions, I'm going to pay. And these guys get comfortable, I can't get out of the house at all, out of the yard, out of the garage, because they're all parked, I don't have any transparency, and this one goes, punishes these, and everyone who's parked here has a nice seat, they don't care, they don't pay anything. So now that he's on duty...? He can't get the Parking Service to carry a car all the time. Make it up, like the Americans did, there's a ticket, 60 bucks. When he controls whether they've paid for the parking lot, he's got to stick a ticket to everyone who's standing around, and that's it. So you can make alliances with other services that are already working successfully. But no, you've decided to put everything under your hat and not let anyone else do anything, who's already done something successfully. So there's a series of these remarks, where there's no multi-sectoral, there's no involvement of citizens, there's no involvement of NGOs, you're not involved in science, you have no idea what you're talking about. You say you're focused on the results. First, where are your causes? Why didn't you show us one relevant survey of why we have this situation both in traffic and in signalling and in deaths, that we are one of the worst countries in terms of traffic security? Spread out a little bit, step out of the police quarters, do some professional analysis and criminal policy. We have experts on it, turn them on to show how to do better and better. And they, this time we make big laws, aren't involved in the work and passing of these complex laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19117	The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19118	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the citizens of Serbia, when this important law is passed, before anyone gives any word of criticism, I have an obligation to give you, Serbian citizens, one piece of information. The Republic of Serbia has lost a Bruce-sized city on Serbia's roads since 1991. 17,000 people were killed, and 240,000 people were injured more easily or more seriously, without showing how many of these people died after two or three years of injuries sustained in car accidents. When it comes to this law, after such a comprehensive public debate, which lasted a year, every word of criticism is unnecessary, because everyone who was interested in participating in the public debate had this opportunity, had more opportunities to make all the remarks, all the suggestions. The law wasn't hidden, it wasn't in some drawers, the law was in public debate. The quality of this law is also witnessed by the fact that recommendations for the creation of this law have also been made by many renowned NGOs from Serbia, where the Yugoslav Committee on Transport Safety participated, where experts from the Transport College, citizens and interested individuals and members of the MUP participated. I just want to say a few things when it comes to this law. When we talk about dragon penalties, here by part of the opposition shows a clear lack of understanding of the functioning of a judicial system. Police rarely charge fines on their own, those terms are usually up to 3,000 dinars. It is the court that determines guilt and it is the court that prescribes the height of punishment. When we talk about anti-radar devices, there was only one remark. There are cars of the newest generation that have a factory-based anti-radar system. Then I ask the people of the ministry to answer in this debate how such cars will register in the territory of the Republic of Serbia if anti-radar is prohibited, and this car has an anti-radar installed or has an even more recent generation, a radar disruptor, which is practically on that radar machine for reading the speed of movement, only draws blank lines when you point a radar device at it. When we talk about traffic tickets, I have one remark, or suggestion. I think the penalties for an economic offense for legal persons are inappropriately high. You have the possibility of a responsible person and a legal entity, meaning a businessman, paying a fine of two and a half million dinars for something the driver did. Here's a concrete example from practice, from life. That's what traffic cops tell me. You have a company where an employee hasn't received a salary in six months, the driver's a truck. He deliberately overloads the truck and deliberately drives it with a higher axle load. He will pay the fine, but his employer will be fined with two and a half million dinars for a violation he cannot directly influence. I understand when it comes to a technically invalid vehicle, I understand when it comes to a vehicle being put into traffic with inadequate signalling, with an irregular braking system. But it's not acceptable for an employer to be responsible for his employee's misdemeanor in this way, and this is where that possibility is left. To conclude, I am a Kruševljan and I ask Mr Milutin Mrkonjic for his help. I know you as a man who quickly solves problems and reacts quickly. When you travel in Serbia and pass by Cačak, the town of Cačak has a fantastic bypass. There is also a traffic signal that, with the help of the traffic lights, restricts the entry of a vehicle from a narrow city core to a transit to Cačka. When you pass the Kruševec, we have built a bypass, and there is no moon not to suffer someone at the intersection that represents the Jasic Way and the northern bypass. There was no political party that promised not to solve the problem. That intersection is unlit. There's a traffic light, but it's not working. The explanation is that the traffic light is not working because the technical reception of that intersection has not been carried out. By the time we make the technical entrance, there will be 17,000 deaths in this place to add a few dozen more of my fellow citizens. On behalf of the citizens of Kruševec, I appeal, and request that this problem be resolved as soon as possible. Please, Mr. Grouchy, come to me in Kruševac, I will host you. Come with the people of the MUP. Let's go to that intersection together and tell me how many days you can get into a traffic light on that bypass. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you and the people of the MUP, along with the numerous monuments of the dead standing on that side of the road, that traffic light and that lit intersection will be the monument of the living. Please hear my request, my appeal, and at the end of this session, answer me if you are able to do so quickly. I'm sorry to ask a parliamentary question, but this is in line with the debate on the traffic safety bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19119	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19120	I have the honour of telling all MPs, ladies, and all MPs that it is an extraordinary and great honor for me to discuss this law in this way. Of course, I have no doubt that there are three ministers sitting here in parliament -- Mr. Todorovic, Mr. Zoran Shami and Mr. Velimir Ilic. But the quality of your discussions is such that I really have nothing to say to you. I just asked people who worked with me and Dacic how many amendments we've reviewed so far and probably adopted. I was told 85 out of 250. How much longer are we going through the Committee's work? I was told 30 of Shami's 60s. So I can really thank you all for making this law with us. But I need to comment on a few things, so it doesn't stay unsaid. First, for Mr. Stevanović. No political connotation related to the Radical Party existed here. Dacic's and I'm safe. Don't even think about it. You said someone transferred to the SRS... No way. If you believe me. Otherwise, your discussion was extremely constructive, and what I just said first applies to that. So, please (Mr. Markovic, listen however), there is no policy there. We all agreed that we should continue the work of the previous period and that the law, as it is, should be put before the Assembly, and that you should now supplement it. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. Your objections, the objections of the SRS, are mostly incorporated. Now I don't know how much the commission knows, probably with a high percentage, you'll know when we get the law on the board. Second question, Mr. Velija Ilic. I could talk about corridors now and so on, but I won't. Everything the ministry did before I came to the head of the ministry, it continued to work. Today at the government at 13.00 hours we need to adopt a programme of the Road Directorate, increased by 30%. So we're going to invest a little more money in the year of the severe crisis in keeping our paths together. He said one thing (I apologize for talking to Velya like that, he won't be angry), it's true. I'm not a man who talks a lot about Europe, but the standards of Europe are such that in our travel economy, outside the construction of new highways, we have to invest a billion and a half euros each year to maintain them. You know that's practically impossible today. Hence, I, Mr Stefanovic, as minister of traffic today, bear responsibility for every victim on our roads. Here, that's what I'm telling you bravely. Every accident that happens, no matter what the cause (and you know that the causes are multiple), I get hit and always pulls me to go to that place where the tragedy happened. One of the conditions, of which Vela spoke most, traffic safety is also improving traffic infrastructure. I would not comment on it now, since I agree with Velja, what and what priorities etc., but if she is in the halls somewhere, let her know that the government has made a decision and today we will adopt a programme to build major projects, and to Chačka, and to continue the path to our sea, or the Montenegrin sea, and that this project will take place these days. So we'll end it too. As for Professor Shami's comments, I think there's only one thing the professor is wrong about. Never one of the people who worked, and I've worked with them for seven months, never been in the front of the repression plan, ever. It's just prevention. This also applies to the remarks made by Ms Vesna Pesic. All your teachers, Mr. Shami, participated in the work. And you know how teachers are. They're great people. Everyone has an idea they'd like to carry out to the end, and that's impossible. We made one intersection, all of them consulting... Mrs. Wesney, I'm answering the question right now. We have some information. Last year alone, there were 237,000 fines in the area of these belts in Belgrade. We have that information. We also have some other relevant information, the commission will make it available to you and the MPs. But the hard thing is when one law, you said well, has been living for 30 years and then you have to install everything in it and, of course, existing infrastructure-related difficulties. Therefore, the repression was not at all in the first place. As for Mr. Rangelovic, I would not comment, and he is not here, he is quite right, he also refers to repression. As for Mr Markic's remarks, it's true, I'm fat and I don't tie my seat belt, I admit it. I get chills when a cop jumps out in front of you, so he stops you on the spot. Of course, the police should be there to prevent it. As for these radar eliminaters, everywhere in Europe, Mrs. Pesic, they exist in law and cannot be used. You can't use an instrument that interferes with the radar. Not even in Croatia, not to speak any further. These are the elements we installed in our law. I don't know if you talked about it or Mr. Markicevic. More of you talked about it. When you talk about directorates, of course we copied it from European law. Ministers must be responsible for what is happening in the area of traffic and it is not any new directorate or new agency. The agency is also the result of European integration. The agency has to channel everything the ministry doesn't do. If we want to unburden or disenfranchise the MUP, we need to build an agency to make that kind of work without the possibility that the police will interfere (rightly publicly) with the training schools of drivers, without presupposing that the militiamen decide which driver knows how to drive or not - it will continue to work at school, as will the professors of the Traffic College. Here, I tried, and to thank you, I'm really amazed and just because you don't say the minister doesn't know anything, I said this. Please, Stefanovic... (The Belief of Radeta, from the town of Stevanovic.) I haven’t been to the Assembly in a long time, Mrs. Radeta, I forgot my names. It has nothing to do with Dacic's attitude towards the Radical Party, believe me, not at all. Please, I said about a quarter or a third, somewhere around 80 amendments will be, it's already accepted today... I don't know the color, all MPs are the same to me. And I answer to Mr. Milivojevic; tomorrow we will go to Rasica, to Jasica, that is the bridge that crashed there, and we will see what we will do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic, and be prepared by Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, as far as traffic safety law is concerned, I must say that the law so far has not been so bad, but it has been bad for its application, due to poor implementation, but also for the corruption that exists between drivers and individuals who exercise control. The new bill will make this picture worse. Raising the fines and powers of the police without effective control will only give the wings to corruption. A driver who is threatening to withdraw his license and re-possession will no longer be bribed by a 10-euro police officer, but now at 300. Because if he has 15 criminal points and threatens to take his license and all that goes on as a criminal policy measure, I believe he will be tempted to offer a police officer 300 euros, and this one will be even more tempted to accept it, for the simple reason that he has so much and monthly salary. The lack of driver education is evident, but the rich and members of the police, who need to understand that they are not drivers working at the norm, but are there to allow smooth traffic. As an MP for the Progressive Serbia Group, I think it is perfectly fine that Serbia has a modern European law, adapted to EU legislation, but the effect will be minimal if it is not applied properly. Dispute members of the law are also those involved in reducing speed. All drivers are familiar with the phrase "unadjusted speed", which could be characterized as universal blaming of drivers, applicable in all situations. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this whole law puts all the blame on drivers even though, in reality, guilt is not always exclusively and only the driver. There's, of course, guilt and the state, that I don't come from local communities, by marking traffic signals, etc. Also, I think the wrong opinion of the police minister is that this is the most modern European legal solution, especially if the basis of this law is a reduction in speed. In that case, it's best to set a speed limit of 20 kilometers per hour, so we set such standards that no one will ever be able to reach, most likely which is not the goal of any law or state. Unfortunately, Serbia is on its way to the EU doing everything wrong. Modern countries adapt their travel infrastructure to laws, only Serbia adapts its law to its roads, better said to holes on the road or inadequate, poor or no traffic signalling. What concerns me specifically in the law itself, although I am not a Belgrade citizen, I am a Novobeceutian, and I am very concerned about what will happen in Belgrade, as regards Article 243. The draft law, in particular Article 5, which reads: "Extremely from Article 1, 2 and 3 of this article, bus driver, trolley bus and tramway in public urban transport, passengers shall be allowed to drive a vehicle for at least eight hours, provided that there is a stop in the starting positions of at least five minutes." First, Belgrade City Transport Company drivers have no way of standing five minutes at a station due to the crowd they will create, both due to passengers and other traffic participants. I wanted to refer this question to Mr. Secretary of Police, but I hope you can answer me as well. Have you, Mr. Minister, tried to drive anything for eight hours uninterrupted in Belgrade, any vehicle, or have at least an official driver drive you eight hours through Belgrade? Imagine what it's like every day. Simply, the drivers of urban transport will become time bombs, not with their own guilt, but with the guilt of the government and this law. Reading further this law, I get the impression that it was written in order to fill the republican budget, from dragon's fines to no more than 17 categories for motor vehicles. These 17 categories are nothing more than pulling money out of citizens' pockets and needless harassment. In the current law, the driver with the B-category exam could also manage the bike with a motorcycle, a motorcyclist, a tractor and a working machine, while the new bill made all these new categories, which the citizens would have to pay each individual and, of course, go to training and laying down for each individual category. It is pointless, at least in my opinion, that a driver with a B-category can drive a car, a car of five and a half thousand cubic centimeters, which develops a speed of about 320-330 km per hour, while at the same time not having the right to operate a simple bike with a bike that has 49 cubic metres and develops a speed of 35-40 km per hour. How else could I interpret this? The basic difference in traffic, that's where you'll agree with me, is that this bike driver with a motorcycle or moped has to give a hand when he turns, unless there's a proper traffic signal. Otherwise, all traffic rules are the same for B-category drivers and PSP drivers, as they are now called. How else do you characterize this division than robbing citizens? The blame I have to send to the legislator also applies to test driver's licenses, i.e. in Article 182, paragraph 4, as regards the particulars of that test permit institution. The way I see it, you're introducing a curfew for drivers with a test driver's license. The ban applies to motor vehicle management from 23 hours to five o'clock in the morning. Not to go into whether or not this provision of the law is anti-constitutional and discriminatory and that it has nothing to do with the image of security in traffic. I suppose the writer of the law had in mind young drivers of 18 years of age and an active nightlife that included alcohol consumption, because I objectively don't see any other reason why you would introduce such a restriction. What I do not like is that the legislator gave himself the right to evaluate all young drivers as potential offenders and felt that they should be prevented from being given God and given the Constitution the right to free movement and life, whether on foot or by car. Let's take a hypothetical situation, Mr. Minister. What happens if a young driver who isn't young by age, say he's 32 years old, conditionally said he's not young, and so far had no need to lay down, now he's started a family, he's got kids, they've gotten the conditions that he needs to have a vehicle because of his family, you know what it looks like when you have little kids, it happens that at night you have to take the kids away, God forbid, away from the doctor, and now, besides his trial license, even though he's a normal, mature man when he's 32 years old, he's got to be a neighbor or he's chasing a cab, if he's got no cab, he'll have to be a neighbor, so he can't drive? I completely agree that the good restrictive measures for test drivers, which you have proposed, are like 90% of the speed limit, etc. It's all right, but I don't like this curfew. What happens if that same family goes to visit their relatives, and they come back, and for some reason a tire pops through, a man changes, finds himself between two villages at 11:00? What do you want him to do, lock up a car with all his family and walk home or sit around and wait for five hours in the morning to go home? In my opinion, this is a completely pointless proposal in law. In this law, unfortunately, there are many bad solutions and provisions. Regardless of the need for a more restrictive traffic safety law on roads, SRS MPs cannot vote for such a bill. I hope so, Mr. Minister, even though I had no intention of telling you this question, you'll be able to answer the question I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19123	Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go. Let Mr. Miroslav Petkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19124	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as has already been said, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support the proposed legislative solution. By supporting this legislative proposal, we want, above all, to support the goal sought by adopting this proposal, which is to reduce the number of traffic accidents and increase road safety. This law, in fact, needs to force drivers to change their behavior around the wheel. With 897 people killed in the roads in Serbia during last year, as well as the material damage caused by 2.7 billion dinars, it is a completely logical and clear goal sought by this legislative proposal. It certainly cannot be defined and characterised as rigid and rigorous punishment, but rather an increase in security and, above all, preventive action. I also want to say that traffic security on the roads is governed by two laws, a road safety law and a road safety law. This way of regulating relations in this area was in line with the 1974 constitutional solution. These two laws do not comply with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, under which the complete matter of traffic security is transferred to the jurisdiction of the federal state. The previous constitution was used to edit the basics, and the Republic remained issues of traffic security on the roads. This and such a legislative proposal will certainly overcome the difficulty of understanding jurisdiction in practice. So, so far, legal solutions are quite outdated and are corrected by the new text of the law which, in fact, unites the provisions of both applicable laws and very clearly defines the competences and obligations to improve traffic safety. On the other hand, it should be noted that the text of the proposed law is in line with the amendments to the European Convention on Transport, as well as with the modern changes and requirements adopted in EU legislation. For the basics of traffic security, recommendations from the United Nations for developing countries have been taken, i.e. the development of a traffic safety system, a positive practice of EU countries has been analysed. The existence of the Government's Co-ordination Body, i.e. the Co-ordination Body, has actually defined the role of the Government to improve traffic safety on the roads, and in line with World Bank experts' recommendations. The establishment of the Transport Safety Agency, which has an essential professional and developmental role, but also an educational role, is foreseen. As has already been said many times before, this legislative proposal will introduce some newspapers -- reducing maximum speed in a populated place from 60 to 50km per hour, reducing the permitted level of alcohol in the driver's blood from 0.5 to 0.3 promil, introducing criminal points for unconscious drivers, then banning the use of a mobile phone during driving, as well as particularly treating a traffic violation of violent driving. The SPS-JS Parliament Club believes that the proposed paper, first of all, is directed, as I said a moment ago, towards a preventive action. I also want to say that we fully support one, I would say, the projected goal of state authorities, to reduce by 50% by 2012 the number of traffic accidents in Serbia. This is a serious reason more for this legislative proposal to be adopted by a large majority, i.e. one consensus of all relevant political actors in the Republic's parliament. The fines provided for by this law, and that is said among other things, range from 3,000 to 50,000 dinars. The newspaper in this respect is that there are no more payments on the spot. Let's say, with about 4,000 dinars, from what I understand, a driver who uses a mobile phone and other means of communication during a drive is being punished. Of course, the police, the military and the ambulance are excluded. One of the important things that changes in the proposed legal solution is the passing of driving tests. An important role in improving traffic conditions will also be given to auto-schools. Bad drivers will go back to auto school. The new law also provides for new systematisation of categories. In addition to standard A, B, C and D, new categories are introduced, which are limited to basics. As for training new drivers, since drivers are first obliged to listen to lessons, pass a test, and only after that do they take practical training and take the exam. The police will, in fact, be rigorous to drivers who are under the influence of alcohol and will have the authority to arrest a driver who has more than 1 alcohol spill in his blood. I also want to say that I fully agree with the recent finding. If we want order, then cops must be paid well and not prone to corruption. That is, of course, a basic prerequisite if we want order in Serbia. We agree that in a situation of economic crisis, saving at the state level should certainly be a priority. All ministries have made savings of 23-26%, but there are simply ministries in which it is impossible to save, or within which it is impossible to save. When it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, there are several ways to make savings. It's, first of all, to cut wages, which is really catastrophic. Because, like I said for a moment, if we want order, then the cops on the streets must be paid well. On the other hand, savings can be made by reducing that specified portion of the means necessary for the equipment. How, then, will the cops, the question arise, are they going to do their work and their work? Therefore, it is really necessary to find additional resources so that the MUP can function uninterruptedly. So, at the very end, I would like to say that before us there is a legislative proposal that is of paramount importance, which together formed the MUP, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the professional public. Despite the fact that this legislative proposal is presented in certain segments as rather rigid, which is presented in certain segments as rather rigorous, the SPS-JS parliamentary club really considers paying a fine, withdrawing a permit for a certain period of time or giving any sanctions to be certainly less harmful than paying the driver's mistakes in Serbia for their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19125	The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic, and let Mr Jovan Nesovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19126	Your Honored Presidency, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I understand that you have a government in one, so you will not be present, but on the basis of your discussion, I understand that you are in a good mood to accept the large number of amendments the DSS has made to this bill. In my opinion, it is very important that the representatives of the MUP are here today, too, to hear our remarks that this law would look much better. For the DSS is an absolutely undeniable fact and the need to pass a traffic safety law as soon as possible, but not only to pass a law to include it in the number of acts brought into this assembly, but that this law is really good and that the results of what everyone in this room wants it to produce. The current law of the 1980s has been overcome in many ways, and we certainly need to change it. Minister Dacic said yesterday that this law had been under way for six years. The fact is, there have been more proposals in all these years. This proposal that came to the congregation did not cover all those solutions and suggestions that we consider to have been good, and for various reasons they were left out. It was also attended by various expert groups and professors of the Transport Faculty and representatives of different ministries. Today we have, in practice, some mixture in which we see, first of all, the desire of the MUP, or the police, to put their paws on certain things that regulate traffic safety. The law introduces the agency, and we don't have much to say about what a regulatory body is, but the fact is that, which is the biggest problem, that agency doesn't have the powers and powers that are necessary to have it really do this job right. What is devastating is that Serbia still does not have a national strategy for traffic security. It is good that this law predicted that it was adopted as soon as possible, because on our roads there are a large number of car accidents, a large number of victims and, no one said, from these car accidents as a consequence of the occurrence and a large number of disabled persons who are really suffering huge consequences because of someone's irresponsibility, whether it's traffic participants or the authorities who were to follow it. It bothers me that in the first sentence of the reasoning of this law, how much the state loses annually in relation to gross national income due to all the traffic accidents that are happening in Serbia, and on the other hand, we have data on the victims and the number of traffic accidents. This law is unclear and it is an inaccurate and esteemed colleague, Professor Shami, said that we have submitted 73 amendments and I am pleased if a large number of these amendments have been accepted. It can be fixed in some ways and some things can be regulated and in this way introduced into some better harmony to give really better effects. I can point out to you, and we will also have an opportunity to discuss in detail what we are talking about, a series of situations that this law provides, which are easily corrected by amendments. We believe that, in the principles of this law, the safety priority for individual categories should have been given. These are both children and persons with special needs and older faces and all that is related to public transport. So, of course, if we really want to put this matter seriously, it should already be in principle. In Article 7, which has a sea of certain points, we intervened at the first point -- that's the definition of traffic. We find it completely unnecessary in this way and in this place to regulate it. There's more illogical stuff in there. If you accept our amendments, I think it'll be much clearer. One of the remarks is how the law defines "population". We have put forward a proposal to define a "populated place" and to determine exactly what space is the inhabited place in which a certain speed limit is foreseen. Some of our colleagues are instructions today, and I can repeat the example of the Ibar highway. If we look at it like this, the entire Ibar highway is a settlement. Because if we look at a couple of houses on the left and right, the cop comes out and says "this is a populated place", and it's not defined by precise law, then we're really going to be in a position to cross 140 kilometers in three hours, even in some situations and longer, depending on what day we travel. Also, there are some completely unnatural formulations. At one point it says "the trolleybus is the bus." Don't let things go by when we're doing a job, but let us define something precisely, because it's in the interest of all of us here and the people who do a certain job. As far as stopping the vehicle, one of my colleagues put the problem here. We think five minutes is a long time to keep the vehicle. Imagine how this would work in Belgrade, in urban transport or in other situations. Of course that time should be reduced to three minutes. I sincerely hope the Ministry accepts this amendment. It is also illogical to turn a person who controls a bicycle or a motorcycle, which is how he can signal that he will make a left or right turn unless he shows it by hand, so we also suggested. What we think is also illogical is the use of mobile phones in pedestrians. Namely, every walk across the street will have to break off the link if at that moment of conversation, not to use the phone, so he can monitor the traffic situation. I'm afraid this is inapplicable in practice and it's very difficult for the police to, above all, influence it. One of the key concerns is that the road safety situation should be dealt with, above all, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Security on the road is a major state issue, and surely the government of the Republic of Serbia is the most able to deal with this problem. I hope you accept the amendment that we have submitted to this matter. The law provides for the government to adopt a national security strategy. Our idea is that the government should propose this national strategy, and that 250 MPs in the National Assembly should adopt that national strategy in one general consensus, in agreement, with the proposal of all the right solutions, which I hope will also be adopted when we talk about this law. We have suggested that one novelty be introduced into this law, which is a violent driving, in some ways expanding, in addition to what is foreseen. The person who twice goes through the red light of course has to be called to account and gets a certain number of criminal points for it, as well as the person who crosses the vehicle on the full line, and we absolutely support it. But we also predicted that those drivers who drive through the populated place would be punished at twice the speed and that persons who drive a motor vehicle outside the populated area by 70 kilometers (trust me that there are drivers on the highways), they would be allowed to limit their speed, they must certainly be punished. I even recently had a situation where the grey metallic 'bmw' would be parked on the city's promenade next to the cafe, because he wanted to get out of his car so everyone could see it and drink coffee there. When I called the traffic police, the station in Chačka, I got an answer -- do you know whose car it was? That's what's inadmissible and what the police have to react to. I don't care who's driving that car. In the city zone, in the promenade, where walking space is intended, for people who perform their children, where children's cars are driven, those on batteries, to get in with a motor vehicle because they have some contact and a link in the police, it's absolutely unacceptable. As far as the driver's exam is concerned, I think that police officer must absolutely be excluded. There's nothing to look for when a cop takes a driving test, or he shouldn't be an interrogator. Other people must be much more skilled at it. Col. Shami also made one remark regarding a credible correction and even cited a great example. I don't think that's good because it creates an opportunity for abuses, even if they're not intended. It may occur that some years later he has problems in court to clarify and resolve the situation without finally getting the right result. Also, speaking of auto school, I think their position is very difficult, because it absolutely depends on the police. In fact, if someone does a job the way they do it to someone in the police department, he's gonna let his car school run, and there's a great possibility that the police can ban the work of certain car schools. You know what the number of auto-schools is and they don't all meet the conditions. Let those who carry out their work in quality quality and train traffic participants, not only train them for 20 or 40 hours to pass the driver's test, but the next day, when they get out on the roads of Serbia, they can safely drive their vehicle, and for themselves and for other traffic participants... The provisions relating to the emergency technical inspection of the vehicle create the possibility of an incredible abuse. Imagine the situation that at one point, a police officer points people to an emergency technical examination because their vehicle is something wrong, and believe that in practice a police officer was going to say - go do a technical checkup, but in there and that car house. There must be a string between individual car houses, auto-schools and these technical checks, which must be broken up, and that must not be allowed. I'm afraid the whole law concept is to remove responsibility from the MUP and transfer, first of all, to drivers and traffic users themselves. The law is repressive as much as it has completely avoided, above all, education and prevention, and this is best discussed in the collection of those famous 18 points. When someone collects two, four, six points, let's show that man where he's wrong, to have a certain conversation with him, to carry out certain tests, not to let him go. He can raise those 18 points by one night in Belgrade, which is the least of the problems. It's not the solution to take away his driver's license, to allow him to resume and that no one spoke to him and pointed out exactly the problems he was causing. What we want and what needs to be avoided is for the law to avoid police control of the state, but to enforce those principles of civilian control over the police. Mr. Dacic, I'm glad you're here. I have one piece of advice, one observation. Belgrade was a blocked city yesterday, but not because of workers protesting in front of the government. Who passed through the Terrace at 20.40 p.m. last night, and I had a chance to get on the street at that time, that was terrible -- babies crying in wheelchairs, little kids holding their ears for the sound of the sirens from the engine and the car police, because of a column of 20 black limos, which "mercedesa", which "bmw" is. I know that yesterday in Belgrade he was an extremely significant guest, but he doesn't have to hear all of Belgrade that the guest who came to President Tadic went through the Terrace through King Milan Street. I don't think that's even happened in much more rigorous regimes, or, let's say nice, in the Joseph Broz regime, that all the streets, all the intersections, are blocked to get past one column of the vehicle. Don't let Mr. Tadic get out, when the works on the Beška bridge are opened, apologizes to the citizens for stopping the traffic for 10 minutes, and blocked all of Belgrade yesterday. And you know best that your police patrols were also in New Belgrade, even though at that time they were on the terraces. I don't think that's a good picture. You don't need to put the police in a position that's absolutely unnecessary. You know exactly what the police need to do for a certain protocol, for a certain procedure. I think last night was really excessive and degutant to see. Not because of me, but really, those kids when I looked at them, the way their parents reacted, those crazy people, I don't know who didn't turn around, and I just expected the helicopters to get in the way while the "father of the nation" and their guest passed through the Terrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19127	I did not want to interrupt the speaker, and I would like to inform you that we have just finished monitoring our gallery session by our guests of the Swedish parliamentarians, otherwise members of the SDP. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, as DHSS MP, I believe that the proposed law is a significant shift in relation to a completely anachronous law that has been a rarity in this area of legislation, a relic of some former times and, in this respect, it is certainly more advanced, and I hope that, by accepting certain amendments, this text will be further improved. However, when we talk globally about traffic, this law represents only one cube in that mosaic. Because in traffic, we have to talk about roads, vehicles and traffic users (this is not just about drivers). How are our paths? Such that Serbia could compete that a Paris-Dakar rally is being held here, which is banned due to the conflict in Chad. Last year he was held in Argentina. We have all the conditions, the hole in the hole, the mud, the thorns, the weeds, some kind of tunnels, like the one in Rakovica where the long-exhausted reptiles live, so there's everything and everything. It's time to stop opening up all kinds of roads. For the 50th time, a share was opened on the Belgrade-based route -- Novi Sad or Belgrade-Subotica or Belgrade-Horgosh. Every year several times. I hope Mr. Mrkonjic will come from words and promises to action. Because so far, nothing has been done, except every 50 metres, there's a bypass around Belgrade. Take 50 meters and immediately cameras, pictures, etc. That's completely pointless. Speaking of which, I don't know where the legal basis is to charge the toll. You've got 20 or 30 kilometers of highway to Novi Sad and that's all. If only we could get to Batajnica normally. Like this, Alonso would go to all the trouble. That's one segment. Second, vehicles. Look at all the squabbles that come up on these roads. It's not old-timers, it's junk, it's junk. And that's what someone allows, some service, some police. They tolerate it in a Burazer way. You see a horse's carriage, like a clai-clais, or a tractor, and behind a two-mile procession. And we're talking traffic in Europe in the 21st century. Finally, traffic participants. I agree that the law should be much more rigorous, according to those principles from the time of Roman law: "durlex, sed lex" -- strict law, but law. I have friends in Spain, so I went there for years and drove until a new law was introduced. That's where 50-60 people died at the weekend. Now it's 50-60% less. I found myself walking around in a row. What's the deal? Well, people respect a limit of 120 kilometers an hour, no matter what, unlike us, they have really real highways, not these imitations of roads. I think it's justified, but it's not a problem in itself either. The problem is law enforcement. Consequential sanctioning and consequential law enforcement. This will be the first test (by definition, by difolt) for the police - whether the law will be consistently applied. Because if this existing one had been consistently applied, we would have saved hundreds or thousands of people's lives, and that's the most valuable thing and that's the most important thing. Of those technical reception services that allow everything to be registered, through the police, through judges for violations, through courts. If we don't have a consequent application of the law, then there won't be any significant shift. In any case, I think the text itself is a significant shift, that amendments can still be improved, but that should be a new era when the story of traffic in Serbia is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19129	Thank you. The word is Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19130	The Honorable Chairman, respected government, fellow Members and fellow MPs, is today an important system law on road safety, and its task is to greatly improve the safety and security of all traffic users by applying in practice. If we analyze certain data, we will see that in recent years the number of traffic accidents in Serbia is increasing. There is also an increase in the number of car accidents with the number of victims and the more severe consequences for traffic users themselves. Also, if we look at certain statistics in the period 2001-2008, annual traffic in Serbia has increased by two to three percent on average, while the number of traffic accidents in the same period has increased around 7.5%. On the other hand, if we are also looking at this period, we have to admit that in traffic infrastructure (I mean all roads, from highways to local roads) countries and local self-government invested significant funds, which means that the quality of these roads was better. We must also admit that the quality of the car moving around Serbia is also higher than it was in 2001. The passive safety of those cars is also higher. However, the number of traffic accidents grew faster than the average of traffic grew. This means that traffic users did not respect the law during this period and that means that this thing has to be sharpened. On the other hand, if statistics are looked at, in 2001, life in car accidents, unfortunately, lost 1,275 people, and a new traffic penalty system was introduced in 2002 and there was a sudden reduction in the number of people who lost their lives. In 2002, that number was reduced to 854, down from 33%. Also, the number of injured people in 2001 was 19.906, and in 2002, when new criminal provisions began, the number dropped to 14.760, which means a reduction of 25.9%. It is clear that in this short period, within a year, only those criminal provisions have led to a smaller number of accidents, the number of people who have lost their lives is also smaller, and the number of people who have been injured is also smaller. However, immediately after 2002, traffic participants likely slowly adapted to these new criminal provisions, the number of people who lost their lives and the number of traffic accidents in general on Serbia's roads began to grow slowly. To stop this trend, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP, along with the Ministry of Infrastructure and all other stakeholders, had to do something. One of the most important segments is this law we're talking about today because we simply can't allow this trend in the coming years, no matter what our paths and everything else, to get into a situation that in 2012 we have the same condition that was in 2001. The proposal in line with this law is (I really want to congratulate them if that happens) that in 2012 we will have a 50% reduction in accidents on the roads of Serbia, especially fatal accidents. This means that there could be 650 people killed in Serbia by 2012. That's really a lot of progress. The second thing, which is also not negligible, the explainr points out that reducing the number of car accidents in Serbia will save 150m euros annually. This means that in 2012 savings will be one billion euros compared to 2001. The state of Serbia is not so rich that it does not have to take care of one billion euros, which is planned to be saved and I am absolutely sure that if this happens, it is a great success of the MUP. Looking at the whole law, it seems to me that what we can say is that the aim of this law is to reduce the number of people killed and injured, to reduce the material damage and the cost of the consequences of traffic accidents, to develop the traffic system and the economy of Serbia, to develop the awareness of the population (preschool, school, adult population) on traffic safety, to bring our safety rules into line with EU rules and to manage the security of traffic from one place, which is the Body for Coordination. What I also want to praise the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Police is that, in addition to them, scientific research institutions, higher education institutions, the non-governmental sector have participated in writing this law, so all those interested individuals who wanted to make some contribution to making this law as good as possible. What seems to me to be very good and what has not been so far, and what is the experience from everything developed, from the countries of Western Europe, is that there must be coordination between the resolution ministries in charge of traffic security (when I say resolution ministries, it means the Ministry of Transport, Internal Affairs, Health, Labour, Education, Justice, Trade and Service) and this new body will be the Body of Coordination and it will be the government's body. The second thing, defined by Articles 9 and 10, is to form a Traffic Safety Agency. The agency will play a triple role - professional, development and educational. When I say professional, they will carry out professional tasks related to traffic safety, development - that they will propose development and improvement of security, and educational - that they will organise seminars and expert exams for all participants and all institutions that are important for this area, i.e. for traffic. Article 11 provides for a national traffic security strategy to be adopted and brought every five years. Articles 12 and 13 have been defined to bring local strategies as well. Personally, I think it is an important segment, for the simple reason that without good plans, which must emerge from this national strategy, we cannot adequately fight and bring to some higher level security in traffic. It's not just a matter of police work and some other bodies, it's a question of the quality of the infrastructure in these local and national plans. The most important thing is that we talked about this morning, the black spots that are related to both the highways, the regional, the local, the plans, that local self-government and the state have an obligation to, by respecting these plans, and to eliminate the elements and to contribute to traffic security, which means less injuries and less accidents related to traffic. At this point, I'm not sure, unfortunately, watching everything that's going on in Serbia, that especially local self-government will have the capacity, enough professional people to do these local plans that are related to traffic safety, but I think we should try. There's the Ministry, there's professional agencies, this traffic security agency, and they'll probably help local self-governments who are interested in maybe over two or three years we have defined these plans, both at national and local level. I think it's a full contribution to talking about a complete action that needs to be conducted to raise traffic safety. I also told the Traffic Committee, and now I repeat. Of the fines charged, it was defined that 70% goes to the state, 1% to the traffic police, 30% to local self-government. Looking at all of this, I'm thinking that you should think that, together with the Committee, maybe that percentage changes so that it's 50% for local self-government, 50% for national level, for the simple reason that these funds can be used for what I just said, even in the initial part, to make these local action plans. I think it will be a significant contribution, especially in this time of savings, when local self-government faces many other problems, to try to help local self-government make these local plans. Today, too, much has been said about the criminal policy that has been defined here and the responsibilities of the police. You can talk about it and we'll all have our own opinions, the promoter has his own opinion and it seems to me that this is one big step towards criminal policy so far. I guess people who are more traffic security have realized that these are also positive trends that occur in other developed countries and that we have to apply this to bring security to a certain level. But one thing the M.O.P. will have to pay attention to is internal control of the traffic police's work. There's a responsibility directly to the Ministry. If internal control and everything you have prescribed under the rules of service is done properly, I really expect that corruption, which certainly exists with the police as it exists in other segments of society, will be reduced every year. This means that we will talk less about the bad experience of traffic participants and that, I am absolutely sure, and the security of traffic in the state of Serbia will be at a higher level than it is now. Looking at the whole law, I think it's very good and it's going to improve certain things about traffic safety. As for the G17 Plus parliamentary group, it will support this law in the voting day and calls on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19131	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19132	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin this discussion with what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has finished. He said he didn't know the color. Unfortunately, or unfortunately, there are many more of us in Serbia who stop seeing the difference between red and yellow, at least in the behaviour in certain segments of state institutions. Of course, Serbia has endured a lot, so it will take that amalgam out on its back, but it is only a matter of what price we will have to pay. As for Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I didn't want to put anything on him or Minister Dacic specifically, but it's a good thing he accepted part of the responsibility he carries as minister. I suppose Mr. Dacic would do the same, as Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Dacic, I was expecting you this morning, and I'm going to ask you this question, since you've come now – why has this law not been in the process all these years ago and it hasn't been adopted before? Yesterday, by finishing your presentation, you said that it was not your intention to penalise people Draconically, but rather to reduce the number of victims on roads across Serbia, which, I will repeat, is between 800 and 900. I ask you, as Minister and Vice-President of the Government, what are the reasons why this law has not come into the process before? I have raised my question in the context that the SRS has been burdened by obstruction that this law is not adopted. I'm convinced that you're sharing an opinion with me that that's not true and that the reasons for the fact that we haven't had the law in a completely different place so far and in some completely different cabinets. What is very important is that someone in the public over the last weeks and months tried to dissipate the work of the SRS in parliament (and above all, representatives of the DS) so they said that the amendments of the SRS were pointless. Your colleague, the minister, said earlier that the vast majority of the SRS' proposals and remarks, as he says in Serbian, were incorporated in the proposal for a traffic safety law. On the one hand, we really appreciate that he has denied DS representatives that our amendments are pointless, and on the other hand, the SRS is pleased that its engagement has contributed to making this law, which is unacceptable for us in this version, somewhat improved. We believe, and we would have gone even one step further from you, if this law required political consensus, not just public debate. Because it's an important and important law, because it concerns all of us and because each of us can be the victim of unsettled traffic security matters. There are no political triumphs here, cheap political points, and no one here should manipulate the percentages of victims of accidents and casualties. This morning I told you what our story is about. In the principle debate, there will be no criminal measures, no points (this is what we will do in the debate in particular), but the things we are interested in and which we will deal with in this part of the debate are related to the sector controlled by the Ministry of Infrastructure, that is, the transport sector. But that doesn't mean we didn't deal with this other guy. Here, to materialise it, or prove it, the SRS was interested, discussed, asked and consulted, took a series of analyses, which are good and which in some ways depicted, above all, the state of traffic security in Serbia, and then our interest in this law and the way we wanted to engage in the adoption of this law. We've come up with information that 76% of traffic accidents happen on a dry and clean road, 18.5% occur on a wet road, 2% on a snow-covered road, and 0.8% on a frozen road. Furthermore, 43.9% happened on the flat side of the road, 28.4% on the intersections, 17% on the corners. The following is very interesting: 65.3% happens during the day, 31.1% happens at night, and 3.6% at dusk. Here's another analysis: 69% of accidents occurred in clear and sunny weather, 19.6% in cloudy weather, and 8.7% in rain. We were also interested in how this matter is regulated in the countries of the environment and the world. I hate to talk about the EU, but here we are touching some countries that seem friendly. Curiosities and some things that are related to Greek legislation. There, for example, through a law-defined measure that if the driver does not have a proper license, the police are taking him to a police station, he pays the fine of 300 euros, and such people are banned from entering Greece for several years. So neither are they immune to dragon penalties, though they are the EU. In Macedonia, for example, at a certain age, drivers must not drive between 10:00 and 6:00 a.m. without someone who is an experienced driver or guardian. It is strange, for example, that the Austrian parliament decided to lift the mandatory use of lights during daily driving in 2008 etc. This is just a few data we wanted to show that the SRS analysis of this law has been taken seriously and that we have no cheap and low intentions when we criticise both the law and the proposings and all the circumstances in which this law was created, as I said in the afternoon debate. I need to look back, too, on a criticism that came from a position. We've been told to criticise the adoption of a traffic safety law. That's really not true, least of all. In this morning's discussion, I said – where luck is that we had this law on the agenda, and even in the most heated debate, we had in Parliament and there was reason and intelligence with the executive authorities to adopt this much earlier. I even illustrated it through the figures, in percent, how much less of the victims we would have backwards, or how much less material damage would be. Don't force the opposition's intention, specifically the SRS, that we're not in favour of law-making traffic security. We might do it in a different way, defining some standards in a more specific or precise way, but in any case, we are not against the area of traffic security in Serbia's office. Mr. Mrkonjic said this law was made in accordance with EU standards. What this law binds to the world and abroad are suggestions of the world and abroad, suggestions and statistics of the World Bank, the United Nations. But I don't think that because of that fact, the law isn't appropriate until the end of our Serbian reality and our Serbian reality, and that, as I said in the afternoon debate, will disprove the application of this law in a large part of the same. You're saying in terms of the text of the law that you've been guided by the experiences of Sweden, the Netherlands and the UK. It's nice in the law to embezzle traffic standards in countries with the highest level of traffic security. But you must accept the fact that in other areas, which are directly related to the implementation of this law, Serbia has not built the standards that these countries have. Now the objective question is asked – who is responsible for it? I assume the SRS, due to obstruction in parliament. The executive power in Serbia has wasted nine years building standards and all of your stories about European integration, about European Serbia, is where it begins, but it is rich here and ends. The value and statistics, i.e. certain parameters you have entered and copied from Europe, are at the level of the European average, I would say. But in these nine years Serbia has fallen far, far, below the European average, with a very uncertain perspective of being a European average in a decent period of time, not something more or more. This morning I said and I said again, we're going to do some things and we're going to show some concrete examples of why we don't think this law is going to be applicable. We will show and we will try to prove that it will be inapplicable at the level of local self-government, which you have included in all of this and which, through this legislative matter, you will impose certain obligations. We will try to prove that certain local self-governments have gone much further in their views and definitions, in front of the state, that the state helmets after them and that it could teach such local self-governments and individuals from those local self-governments to see and learn a lot. I think this whole debate, which we will continue to conduct, will benefit the representatives of the government, or the legislator of this law. There is one statement in the explanation: "The proposed solutions will affect the awareness of traffic security of all traffic security entities as well as traffic users, and the main impact is expected", which is the most important now, "to improve and economic development of Serbia". It is really incorrect, not to express myself more difficult, that those who have shown an absolute absence of consciousness about the need to define and regulate this law earlier, are invited to know, so we are adopting it only today. Whatever the hell you're starting from, it doesn't matter. The SRS believes that in the previous draft of this traffic safety law, there was a better solution -- the Transport Safety Council. The new bill provides for a body for coordination. Why do I say that? We felt, that's what I said, Mr. Minister, and just before and at the beginning of the debate, that this law, because of its essence and importance, was supposed to unite everything that was worth professional and scientific terms and everything that carried the empire, which should certainly be incorporated into this law. The previous draft law meant that, apart from the representatives of the ministries to be the bearers of the implementation of this law, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, health, police, infrastructure, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and five representatives of the most important experts in the area were involved. You see what you put into the reasoning of the text of the law – since the law is what it is and that it implies multi-sectorality, in its implementation will be attended by the government and the non-popular, non-governmental sector. So you call these people from the economy and the world of science an NGO. And then in law, you predict that the Co-ordination Body only involves people from the Ministry. Why aren't there people from the Chamber of Commerce or your NGO sector, whoever they represent? That's what I asked today, I'll ask now. Is this the legacy of the division created between the ministry and science when the first draft of this law was written? It is also said in the explanation of the text of this law that it will be included (it would be good if Mr. Minister were there) JP "The Ways of Serbia". I ask the government authorities - how capacitative will this company be to participate in the implementation of this law? Mr. Dacic, you're the deputy prime minister, I assume you know how much the state owes to this company. Later, we will come to how this company, or individuals in it, by their irresponsibleness, by disobeying the law, by inaction with what the law and the rules oblige them to do, seriously destroy traffic safety in certain directions. And because of the fact that the security of traffic, by doing bad, collapsed once upon a time, you won't be able to apply this law the way you defined it. I'm going to illustrate that very specifically. I don't have to illustrate you, take a walk to the Ibar highway, and you'll understand everything. Wherever you go in Serbia, you will find such examples, there are examples. Even if you wanted to deal with the safety belt, I ask you – how could you do it? And we're gonna touch that right now. You say and define in the law – traffic signalling, or parking is prohibited except where the law allows it. Depending on the category, everything that happens on the road and all those rules that apply to the road must also apply to the travel belt. I guess so. The travel belt, depending on the road category, whether it's a local road, a master's or a regional road, or what it's now called - the state roads of the first or second categories and the highway is 5-50 meters. The highways, such as the Ibar highway, such as some roads in southern Serbia, have built whole buildings, illegal houses, in a protective lane. I don't want to incriminate anyone, and I don't want to put a burden on anyone, but someone decides to build a bar in the safety belt, he makes it there. Whoever's doing the road reconstruction is illegally giving him the connection to the highway. It's a time bomb for traffic safety. In my neighborhood, there's such a road, on which traffic signalling is allowed to move 80 kilometers per hour. There are at least 20 and 30 illegal connections, which can only be obtained with the agreement of the ministry, under the law. I ask you, how are we going to raise the level of traffic security on such roads? They built their own parking lots. Approach road bad, exit road from the parking lot bad. I'm gonna respect the restriction, I'm gonna move 75 miles and, God forbid, I'm gonna hit or kill somebody. How will the state fight these things? That's what I was saying earlier -- legacy and heritage, which can't be put on the backs of these ministers alone. That's where the story of standards falls into the water, the story of the EU. You are applying the legislation of the Netherlands. Did any of you get into the story of how roads were designed in Holland? In the process of the project, what is the simulation of roads being made? Do you know that in the Netherlands, the environment behind the traffic sign changes if the visibility of that same sign is questioned? You're invoking the Netherlands, introducing standards from the Netherlands. It's not bad, I don't have anything against good standards, but the question is how applicable they are. The only time you mentioned the safety belt in the law was when it came to the monuments of the cornerstones. I ask you, gentlemen of the government, are monuments the cornerstones the only intervention in the space? Do you have only monuments along Serbia today, or can anyone, without permission, illegally set up his ad, his parking, his facility like this or such, larger or smaller? These are some questions that, in the SRS' opinion, do not have an answer in this law. I think the law should have been more consistent with the Law of Ways. I am also convinced that Serbia has enough brains, knowledge, human resources and experts to adequately see this. The only problem is whether the executive authority was willing to hire them and how willing she was to put them into the role of adopting a good law and affirming them in practice. What's unacceptable for the SRS, too? It's a traffic security agency. You drowned us for months talking about austerity measures. The big president will cut parliament short for the state to save, and then put 60 laws on the agenda that envision two or three agencies, bodies or I don't know what institutions will be on the back of the state again. Not to the state, but to the taxpayers. Now watch this. Traffic security agency - no less than 40 employees. That's what you wrote here. In the first year, it needs to be secured 98 million. You know what's interesting? Isolate a hundred million dollars for traffic safety is really small. It is very little in relation to the needs Serbia has when it comes to the affirmation of standards in the area of traffic security. But out of that hundred million, you're going to give sixty-fifty change to pay, taxes and contributions to those who will work in that agency, and for machines and equipment 19 million. What are you bragging about? What standard in the field of traffic protection are you building? What do you want with this? We've got over a hundred agencies. You're saying you're gonna shut it down. You define yourself to reduce parliament. There are 250 MPs, elected by four million citizens, at least. There are 713 employees in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and 250 MPs are full. Tell the president to put an end to the parliament, make one agency who will vote for it. For everything he needs. It won't be hard for them, they don't do anything, they take the wages. I don't want to discredit anyone, it's not my intention, but these are just consequences. You don't really want to deal with the problems this Serbia has. You don't essentially want to commit yourself to the state of affairs in this country. As I was saying earlier, about the safety belt, so far there has been and there will be a verse, unfortunately, that's how everything else in the country works. Now we're going to place another agency on the burden of citizens, whose standard is what you yourself know. The standard of citizens best illustrate these images in Germany, in front of the presidency, and in other dismembered, stolen and robbed enterprises. Invite these people for six months to be seen. They had to make a traffic collapse to finally warn the President of the Republic about themselves. Today we are talking about traffic security and fellow MPs objectively ask what is happening in Belgrade. And it's a form of traffic security collapse, with all due respect to these people and their determination to solve their problems, the problems the executive authority has made for them. What is the standard of these citizens to pay the agency? What kind of vehicles do they use, what is the average age of the vehicle in Serbia? And they, someone just said, are absolutely time bombs on the roads. The question arises as to how they even get on the road. Technical examinations -- how does all this happen, who's in the mood with whom? But these are some objective problems that you can't solve with one paperwork, administrative norm -- we've been running European standards. The Serbian reality has not been seen and is not involved in this law to the greatest extent. And that's our problem, and that's why the law won't have adequate application. What's the degree of corruption? Corruption is a problem in Serbia. Do you really believe that dragon penalties or the introduction of criminal points will reduce the degree of corruption in the area of traffic security? So these two categories, the penalty points and the dragon's penalties, will be the basic subject of trade in the conduct of this law. We need to look at these things openly and look at them. I'm not going to generalize things, this only applies to those individuals who are prone to corruption who work in different bodies and services that will be related to the implementation of traffic safety laws. Imagine the insolence, even the government criticized that norm, two and a half million are scheduled to punish a legal person. Who's gonna pay for that? So those who are agile, those who can pay you for it, they pay you nothing, they control you. And those who cannot pay, what will you do with them? So, what's the state gonna get by that? Here, on behalf of my MP group, I say, for certain crimes and violations, let them be and shut down, let it be the withdrawal of driver's licenses, let it be a ban on management. In practice, you have certain states to take away their vehicles. We don't mind that. We don't mind the punishment being high, but that punishment can be charged. That's what I said this morning, in Serbia you have 70,000 illegal companies, legal entities, or those on the verge of liquidity. Who are you gonna take the money from? I said this morning, Minister, I will repeat it for you -- out of 14 public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, they've all done business with losses in the past year. They have a loss of 1,600,000 euros. They're such a parasite on the back of this country. I'm asking you how you're going to charge them a fine, as some of us teach us here, we don't understand who collects and determines the fines, to which the court has appointed two and a half million. And that's proof that you're going to come up with a bill. You won't apply the law. The first precedent when it happens, it becomes a practice and you can throw this law under your feet. It's really like that. And it is really incorrect for someone to say that the Serbian Radical Party does not want order in this area. We want to, but in a way that is adequate and suitable for our everyday life, our economic, social standards and all other conditions and circumstances. Everything else is spilling from hollow to empty. To tie up the fact that you haven't passed the law before. And today, Serbia does not have an orderly analysis. Based on some estimates, i.e. experience on the side, it is estimated that at the annual level, damage has been caused by car accidents of 1.5-1.7% of gross national income. Make it a billion on the annual level. Imagine we reduce that money by 10%, 20%, 30%, and create the opportunity to invest that money in science, invest that money in human resources that will deal with traffic security, which will give our young people a chance to education, raise awareness of the need to meet all the obligations when it comes to traffic security. About auto-schools, instructors, those categories that are also covered by this law, about the possibility of reporting corruption in that segment, we will, of course, talk in the discussion in particular. Now we're still going to stay on those traffic-related parts. Here, members of 11-13 define the creation of a National Traffic Safety Strategy. Mr. Minister, it would be good if Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic were there. How long will Serbia deal more with strategies, declarative acts? Will the experience with this traffic security strategy be like all the experiences we have with all the strategies that you have proposed before Parliament and adopted them? This country has laws and has planned and strategic documentation which has the power of the law and which is binding. And this country must finally start dealing with these documents. Who are you going to convince to implement the National Traffic Safety Strategy? What strategy have you implemented so far? Here, they were almost environmental laws. What's the example of (reactive) national waste management strategy? Five or six years ago, you predicted five sanitary regional dumps. You didn't make any. Now I'm making a parallel. Will the fate of implementing this strategy be like any other strategies that you, promoters of European values, have adopted, presented before the Assembly and offered citizens as something that is efficient and modern? The question now raises which acts will be relied on by the National Transport Safety Strategy. Has Serbia defined a strategy for developing its road infrastructure? It's a question for Mr. Mrkonjic. Unfortunately, he's not here to give us an answer. Serbia, I mentioned this earlier in 1996, got its last spatial plan, which, among other things, defines both travel and traffic infrastructure and takes into account aspects of security on the road, i.e. traffic infrastructure. It is completely anachronous with Serbia's current needs, and when it comes to traffic security. It's not traffic safety to set up radar, put on a belt and punish. The safety of traffic is what we said earlier, that you don't have anyone in your travel belt. The safety is that you have the intended routes... (President: Mr. Stevanovic, I'm sorry, you spoke for 35 minutes. If it's okay with you, why don't we take a 60-minute break and get on with it? I'm just getting started. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish up so we can take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19133	The other MPs expressed their desire to have a break at the usual time. I'm setting a 60-minute break. At 3 p.m., we'll continue our work. [[After break – 15/05]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I'd like to ask Mr. Stevanović to continue. Here you go. You've got 31 minutes left. Would you allow me to give my word to Vervain Rade? She advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you agree? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19135	Madam President of the National Assembly, I intervene on the basis of Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that members of the Government, authorised representatives, participate in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, etc. So, members of the government. You have just interrupted the session, i.e. taking a break, although Mr. Stevanovic asked to continue speaking while one of the ministers on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was present to represent the bill here. Even though you asked him if he wanted to, after that you said you were taking a break. I assume you knew that the minister would not be there, or that none of the ministers would be there, and therefore you took a break so that the minister would not go out during Mr Stevanovic's discussion. We also think that the Rules of Procedure must be respected, since you normally talk a lot about the Rules of Procedure, but obviously you don't work in the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, we demand that you ensure the presence of one of the ministers who, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are in charge of representing this law here. Mr. Stevanovic's debate, which has already been launched, is too serious, professional, responsible and what he says about the law, in addition to having to hear the MPs, who are mostly missing from the congregation's majority again, and should hear Serbia's public, should certainly hear the resolution ministers, so that we can hear their reactions immediately, that they do not have to read the stenogram afterwards. So we insist on applying the Rules of Procedure and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19136	It's been two minutes, thank you. Mr. Ivica Dacic didn't even leave the parliament building, he was here the whole time. He's in contact with the MPs, talking. As you know, he's not a man of form, and even beyond formal circumstances, the law that's on the agenda today. (Miss Radeta: I should be formal.) It's been two minutes, so you've completed your address. Mr. Stevanović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19137	I thank Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I was really determined to honor all of us together, Article 87. Rules of Procedure, and we secure a representative of the government. But you're the opposite and different attitude. You didn't tell your colleague Radet if you broke the Rules of Procedure or not. Again, I believe that the law that is on the agenda and all that he should bring with him is much more important and much more important than what is formality, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, which objectively, you must admit, in this situation you are not prepared to respect. I opened the story of the National Security Strategy, but since Mr. Dacic, as a representative of the government, I forgot one question. Let there be both a question and a suggestion. I am interested, when the text of the law provides information on how many persons have been killed since 1991, why this information does not also mean the territory of the AP Kosovo. I think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted by general political consensus in 2006, clearly defines Kosovo as part of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose that statistics, which relate to the victims of this poor traffic safety situation, should also mean KIM territory. Let this be a question, and my suggestion for the future is that all other possible reports and statistics necessarily include everything that can be taken from Kosovo and Metohija as a fact. Let me say it again, Art. 11-13th of the proposed text of the law, you have foreseen the creation of a National Traffic Safety Strategy. I said that our experiences in the state, with all the strategies that were made in this assembly and were entrusted to certain competent state authorities for implementation, had, to say, one very uncertain fate. I asked whether Serbia defined the development of its road infrastructure. In this context, I mentioned the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, and I stopped there. Since certain provisions of this law will be given jurisdiction to some obligations and tasks of local self-government, I must remind you and agree with one of the ministers from your government that in that area, which regulates sustainable plan development in Serbia, chaos and that 80% of municipalities do not have that documentation. Through that documentation, I suppose you know, the development of road infrastructure at local level, at regional level, subregional level is defined, and it's unfortunate that at the level of local self-government, too, to a large extent, this law and everything it predicts will not be possible to apply precisely because of the fact that this documentation is missing. And the lack of that documentation is just talking about the irresponsibility of the government in the last few years, because it wasn't ready to deal with the things that essentially mean development and that would essentially define Serbia and all its parts to move forward. No government official has been able to hear, I repeat, what documents will define this strategy. We could hear even less that anyone in the Republic of Serbia in the executive government was invited to a document, which was brought to Hanover in 2000. The document was defined by the pan-European travel network. The document is called "Thirteen guiding principles for the sustainable spatial development of the European continent". I did not make a mistake, I made it very clear to the European continent, not the European Union. What does that mean? This points to the fact that this document is not a political pamphlet, but is based on scientific principles, scientific data, and has defined this transport network in the territory of the entire European continent. If it were an expression of the EU's political commitment, Serbia would certainly not be covered by the document. But since it was built on science, and based on our geostrategic position, Serbia could not get around. They couldn't get around it as much as you did and make Serbia not accept it and view it as a partner. The question also raises how many economic opportunities in the country today will allow for the affirmation and improvement of travel, i.e. transport infrastructure and its definition in the context of traffic security. I will remind you that just a few weeks ago you adopted a budget rebalance, I would say in a latent silence, given that you threw SRS MPs out so you wouldn't get an adequate debate in relation to the proposed budget rebalance, but through that budget rebalance, you denied the Ministry of Infrastructure by 12,300,000 dinars. On this basis, I ask you, on the one hand, how all the projects concerning travel infrastructure in Serbia will be realised, and on the other hand, the SRS would take advantage of the opportunity and the opportunity to appeal to you in this way that all the story about the infrastructure in Serbia cease to base and bring it down to Corridor 10. We really understand that Corridor 10 has reached the hands of the President of the Republic and that it likes to be photographed, to walk, to open works, to close works, to determine the stability of the ground as an expert, etc., but Serbia definitely has to break up with that practice despite this vertical travel network, or priority travel networks, Serbia should also think about the horizontal, i.e. the second and third-row road network. These are all those roads where there are huge problems in the area of traffic security, which combine the eastern part of Serbia with the west and vice versa. After all, by affirming these projects and these road networks, Serbia would certainly gain importance, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this would be a practical reference to the sustainable development of the road infrastructure in Serbia, and thus also to the economic development of Serbia, as you tried to define in this explanation. When it comes to this law, it is certainly necessary to refer to local self-government, which you also mention and which, in the context of this law, will have certain competences. First of all, you have defined it in terms of place or territory where certain revenues will be realised, that part of the funds of these paid or paid penalties will go, is assumed, to local self-government, but you have also given local self-government and one task, which is that local self-governments are building their traffic safety plan into the National Strategy, which is supposed to bring the Body. The SRS is convinced that this part of the work that will be entrusted to local self-government will absolutely not be done. Not to be unrealistic, perhaps not absolutely, but in two-thirds of the municipalities this job will not be done. Why do I tell you this? Isanalyse a political environment in which two-thirds of local self-government operates today. Every two or three months they change and establish new majoritys, brutally overthrow one to establish another, the electoral will of the citizens ends. But I have no intention of alluding to some radical municipalities that you have managed to bring down politically. Here, first of all, my intention is to point to the fact that in such an environment, no local leadership has any space, no chance of dealing with certain projects, of starting them and bringing them to an end. In an atmosphere where, every three months, the leadership of one municipality will be replaced, such leadership does not want to deal with these matters, nothing but defining and gathering committees and majority meetings of municipalities. The strategy on traffic security at that local level will be the 39th hole in the play. To be honest, there are also local self-governments who have been responsible and who have gone further than the state has gone, who have shown their willingness and determination to deal in a fundamentally strategic way with their development and which, because of such a definition, actions at local level, may have ensured that, to a large extent, such a "modern" law, as you call it, may well have been implemented. I'll be guided by that logic - who is not for himself, is not for others. I will certainly refer to the local self-government I come from, which was dominated by Serbian radicals in the previous term. At that time, we were able to provide funds and define a project that implies the construction of 132km of the road network in this neighbouring programme with partner municipalities from the neighbouring Republic of Bulgaria. We got the money for it because the project was a sustainable character. That's what we did and we defined it. We have brought this project into line with all the planning documents, which are valid and adopted very soon. On the other hand, since they are located in the area of Vlasina, the area of exceptional qualities, and I purposely mentioned this, because the government's decision must respect certain standards in the field of environmental protection... Whoever was reading the law saw that in chapter nine -- technical traffic regulation, in article 164, you certainly specifically regulated the relationship to the environment when it comes to traffic security. If you've worked it hard enough and done it, it's something else now, but at least a shred of consciousness about protecting the environment, from the aspect of this law, existed. As far as this project is concerned, Mr. Minister, an international audit has been carried out, the project has been approved. Unfortunately, some have come after us who have no time, will or interest in such projects. I'd like to appeal to you to follow the example of positive local leaderships, which, in this case, I repeat, were radical, and to invest money where space exists. You're investing money in sustainable projects, and as much as I could read about the text of this law, you're saying that money invested in traffic security is tenfold back. If there is hearing and mind in the government, given that it is located in southern Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is a comparative advantage of southern Serbia compared to the whole environment, it is not bad to show good will for that people from southern Serbia to see, to invest money in sustainable projects and to enable us to carry the burden of economic problems that we carry and who are going to meet, look at and overcome them in an adequate way. Today, when I started this debate, I said that we would talk about details relating to training, to criminal points, to laws, in the discussion of details. Our amendments, the amendments to the SRS, are dominantly related to these segments of this law. We, I repeat, have written these amendments based on conversations with people who represent the profession. In this case, it was the Republic of Serbia's auto-school community. They gave us some suggestions, of course we couldn't accept some, but that it was a representative and eminent institution, it also tells us that 60% of the auto-school is a member of this association, that it includes over 100 traffic engineers, and that certainly one great experience and empirium is concentrated in that association. Based on everything I've said, I'd like to make some summary and my discussion in this part of the debate under this law. The SRS absolutely believes that Serbia needs the area of traffic security to be settled, but we also think that the way you want to do this is not good enough and that is why we are not in a position to support this version of the law. We wanted our amendments to affirm the text of this law. We heard that a good portion of the amendment was accepted, i.e. embedded in the text. That's good for us, that's confirmation that the amendments were meaningful. It's sad and we really don't want to, I repeat, at the beginning of the debate, I said, this law only remains a letter on paper, that in essential and serious parts it is inapplicable. If you don't take things seriously, reality in Serbia, it will become it. Of course, the burden of responsibility will go to you for all of this, but until you change your manners and habits when it comes to legislative procedures and law enforcement, Serbia will unfortunately be cascaded, Serbia will still not be a regulated country, Serbia will still not be a serious country, and I think of your European perspective as meaningless and speaking. I say once again, in the debate in particular, we will definitely look back on everything that has been dominantly pointed out today by some MPs, which is what MPs of the congregation's majority have been dealing with. I agree with the fact that these elements in the law are good, we can say that they are acceptable, but they are not subject to dispute. All of this which is the subject of the dispute is obviously not heard to define differently, to make it a different concept, and therefore, I repeat, this law will remain, unfortunately, a dead letter on paper, i.e. just another percentage or half percent on the list of laws that you allegedly adopted because of our European or your European path. I've had so much for now, and we'll certainly use the time of the SRS to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85 paragraph 5, I am extending the work of the National Assembly and after 1800 hours, to the conclusion of the debate on the starting point of the agenda for today. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19139	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Secretary, traffic security is not a political issue. It is, above all, the strategic interest of the modern state and the strategic interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are certainly witnessing that on the scene we have a law that has been overcome during the time in which we live, which is the technological development of traffic and transport infrastructure, including the very way of life, made an anachronic and it was time for such a modern law to be passed. As early as 2005, the Ministry of Capital Investments and Mr. Velimir Ilic made a proposal for a traffic safety law in very good circumstances, with a powerful expert team that received the best grades of both European and world experts. We do not have this law in this form today, but we have it amended and therefore this bill suffers such serious criticism from the MPs and therefore over 250 amendments have arrived at this proposal of the law. According to Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic himself, over 80 amendments have already been adopted and, he said, we remain open to the adoption of more significant amendments. It thus shows that the bill should not have been broken by any changes. What needs to be a fundamental objective in this law is certainly the safety of all traffic participants, and what these, even the amendments to the unchanged, bill, is that one was meant to enable a greater, faster and safer charge of budgets, so we have to ask ourselves that this is not an accident. I do not believe that it occurred to any of the resolute ministers, nor Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dacic, but that no one in the government has thought of it, someone who has significant powers to achieve the way of money, as the Chinese once found the way of silk, to provide in this way those 79m euros missing, which Serbia will have to pay as compensation for the annulled concession, and we will certainly have to pay. Of course, Serbian citizens must bear the burden of every irresponsible step of government. What we expect in this bill certainly is that after all the debates of the MPs, after serious consideration of all the amendments, and today we have received the assurance of Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that each amendment will be seriously discussed, and of those who have not been adopted so far, and we have guarantees from all MP groups that they have submitted their amendments to the benefit of Serbian citizens seriously, too, so we expect that this final appearance of the law after leaving this assembly to be truly in the service of the security of Serbian citizens. That's the goal we all have to pursue, because that is the goal of every citizen, even us when our mandate expires. I hope this bill of law will outlive the presentandates and last for the good of all of us. Because it should remain behind us at a time when Serbia had to drive most of the way with a driver's license in its teeth to make it easier to identify in case of an accident. We still have, unfortunately, many such roads and traffic infrastructures are not up to the legal regulations we have seen in Europe, but of course we must stand side by side with Europe and we must speed up, since we have already lost much of our time in passing such a law, to make up for the revision of this legal act that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19140	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19141	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I find the Road Traffic Safety Bill very high-quality. Of course there are some details that can be discussed more, one of them mentioned MP Srdjan Milivojevic, asked what about the new cars in which these anti-radar devices are installed, but when the whole proposal is taken into account, I think it is very good and, given the fact that the debate has been going on for several years, I think it was high time that we finally decided on this law. What is the alarming data, which affects each of us (I am struck, above all, as a citizen of this country), is the number of people killed on the roads of Serbia. Last year alone, about 900 people lost their lives, and over 22,000 were injured. The material damage that has been done is over 2,700,000 dinars. Almost half of all these accidents were caused by driving, so at an irregular rate. I can't agree that this is about dragon penalties. So the whole idea is to implement certain preventive measures. Therefore, the goal is to reduce the number of accidents and the number of deaths. We shouldn't, of course, forget the fact that the old law, which still applies, was passed in 1988. The circumstances on our roads have changed in the last 21 years. What is being introduced by some new categories that should contribute to the goal of introducing order into our traffic is the introduction of video surveillance on the roads, so proving violations through camera footage. I was driving two months ago in a neighboring country, where traffic police routinely stop drivers, ask for driver's license and registration, ask if you've been drinking, where you're going, and then call the phone and check at some of their headquarters whether the camera recorded it, if the radar has recorded that you've exceeded speed. If it is, there's no talking to the police. There, in fact, we are seriously creating the possibility of reducing corruption, as corruption will be reduced by introducing newspapers that there is no payment of fines on the spot, which I find very significant. Under these preventive measures, of course, one of the most important points is the introduction of criminal points. So, at least the penalty points are obtained for not missing pedestrians at the pedestrian crossing, then for going through the red light, and for those most severe violations, when driving accidents are caused, you can get 18 points. In any case, when you add up 18 points, the license is withdrawn, the exams are re-scheduled, fines are paid. If you happen to get a two-year term of withdrawal for two years, you will be permanently without it. A colleague from G17 plus Mr. Angelovic mentioned, as very significant, the introduction of a temporary driver's license between 17 and 18 years of age, which I also consider a positive solution. Auto-school in those two months, let's say, how long the training takes, train you for one part of the whole story, and essential training is only followed by when you're sitting behind the wheel and you start driving yourself. Whoever commits a car accident with the child in the car will get twice as much punishment. The rate in the populated area decreases from 60 to 50 kilometers per hour. Of course, the use of mobile phones without so-called. ‘hends fri’ devices and prohibits the use of these famous anti-rading devices. I didn't understand why we haven't worked it out by now, but I've seen it backwards in the Western European countries, even in the neighborhood, that drivers have an obligation to keep lights on during the day. There's an obligation to ride with the lights on in the daytime. Drivers know how difficult it is when driving on roads outside the inhabited area if it is a mist, even when summer days are. It's very difficult to see a vehicle 100, 200, 300 meters away from you. I think this is really a positive solution. In Serbia, and this has changed since 1988, we have more and more examples of this violent drive. It's a new category in this law. It is thought, first of all, of reckless behavior towards other traffic participants. There are two specific cases. First, going through a red light two or more times where between two passes it didn't take more than 10 minutes and crossing a column over a full line, which is something quite common with us, but it does cause a great danger in traffic. A fellow NS Markicevic set a good example. That's where I'd agree with him. I think he's giving answers to some of the opposition's criticisms. He said something about a seat belt. Many were skeptical, and I personally, when that obligation was introduced in 2001, but we witnessed that most of the driver, having paid for the first fine, which was then about 600 dinars, immediately began to bind. It certainly affected the increase in road safety. The question of alcohol is very important. Different solutions have been made in different countries. In my humble opinion, even the most rigorous solutions to this matter are not enough, because this is one really great danger. So, the paper is that if you get caught with over two alcohol spills in your blood, at least you get an automatic sentence of 15 days in prison. The minimum blood alcohol is sent down to 0.3 instead of 0.5 promills. What the parallel practice says is that in Serbia so far, it has been a punishment for driving under the fact of alcohol of 60 euros, and in some other countries it is much more rigorously sanctioned. In the Czech Republic you pay 450 euros, in France 750, in Switzerland 775. If you want to go to the region, you pay 380 euros in Hungary. In Montenegro, Croatia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia - no blood alcohol is allowed at all. How much other countries take seriously the question of safety on the roads suggests that, for example, in Bosnia, Montenegro and Croatia, they sanction throwing waste through the window while you are importing or, for example, when you spray pedestrians at the pedestrian crossing. In the end, I'd go back to some statistics, although it's very ungrateful to talk about it that way, because it's still people's lives. That statistic says we've lost 35,000 people on the road in the last 25 years. If you take the fact that we lose about 30,000 every year because of the fall of birth, it's one smaller town, then I wonder if we can afford this many victims on the highways. I personally find that really inadmissible. So over half a million people in those 25 years have been injured. The damage is almost greater than the value of state roads. Annual police sanction about a million violations, about 80,000 people are excluded from traffic, over 40,000 people are caught in alcohol and more than 200,000 people who have exceeded speed. So every year, per million people, we lose 120 people in car accidents. That's why I don't think this is a question for one political party or coalition. I believe that every MP will find a public interest in this law and we will adopt it with a large majority of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19142	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic. Let Mrs. Judita Popovic prepare herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19143	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, the fact that more than 20,000 people in car accidents have died in Serbia since 1991 and that more than 250,000 people have suffered minor and serious physical injuries unequivocally imposes the need to regulate the security of traffic on our roads in a comprehensive and permanent manner. It is obvious that the legislation so far cannot stop the growing chaos in traffic and that the damages not only in people's lives are invaluable, but also in material goods so great that Serbia, as a small country in transition, cannot afford the luxury of losing more than a thousand human lives each year and hundreds of millions of euros in material damage. Every year on Serbia's roads, we have one NATO bombing. The draft law, which today lies before the MPs, in my opinion, regulates the area of traffic security in a comprehensive and restrictive manner; it provides institutional capacity for law enforcement; it lays down a traffic safety strategy and lays down traffic rules. This law accurately regulates the duties of traffic participants, defines roads, traffic restrictions, traffic signalling, as well as technical traffic regulation. It is also precisely regulated area of driver training, technical examination of motor and connected vehicles, registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles, as well as specific measures and powers governing the rights and duties of traffic participants. The proposed solutions will affect the awareness and security of traffic of all traffic users. At the same time, these solutions will also help the economic development of the Republic of Serbia because Serbia's goal, as members of the European Transport Conference, is to reduce the number of deaths by 50% by 2012. If it comes from 2001 as a reference, it means that the number of road deaths would be reduced to about 650 victims by 2012. By budgeting material losses, our country would reduce the cost of car accidents at an annual level of around 150m euros by applying this law. This would reduce Serbia's loss by about 1 billion euros by 2012. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am deeply convinced that this legislative proposal will have a very positive impact on the awareness of traffic safety among all traffic users. In addition to preserved human lives, which are invaluable, the contribution of this law is expected to protect goods and improve our country's economic development. At the same time, its permanent application will also change the awareness of all participants in traffic and the creation of a new traffic culture. The component of this law is both the construction and maintenance of the road network and the road signalling, which play a very important role in traffic security. This law allows for the more efficient functioning of the MUP and the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia and strengthens their responsibility to provide safe conditions for all traffic participants. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group in voting day will support this law. We appeal to all MPs to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19144	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word, and let Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19145	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has a very big flaw. It's his fault that the bill was written by the M.O.P. So this is police law. If it's police law, then some things here are very clear. How do you achieve road safety? It is achieved by doing preventive work, which is punishable, which is for education, while treating all participants equally in traffic. Since it's a police law, then it's understandable that the focus is on punishment. I underline that from 312 to 338 members of the law are provided for criminal provisions. If we have so many penalties planned and if we have a very strange member of 322 in this law, which raises a police record to the level of credible documents, then we should not be surprised if there is a very serious problem with the direct execution of traffic traffic controllers. What does that mean? This large number of penalties and a credible ID allow someone to decide for themselves and take that discretionary right from these direct contractors whether to give someone a penalty, whether to punish someone or not. This, again, opens the door for serious corruption, because in a credible ID, normally, there is no judge who will question the credibility of that police record. It's an unnatural situation that one of these laws is written by the police, because the police are carrying him out. That's why it's possible for auto-schools to be under a lot of police supervision, so one of the interrogators could be a cop. So, in this case, besides having a "caddie sues you, cadiya judges" situation, we have a "cadiya writes you a law." It's unnatural and it's really difficult for the police to do all these jobs, because the police are doing what they know, the police are punishing, and everything else that also falls under traffic safety, such as, above all, prevention, which includes road conditions, signalling, as well as the responsibility of all those responsible for road and signalling... Therefore, it was lost in view of the fact that it was not the only punishment that could ensure raising from another level of awareness of traffic safety to a third level, which is highlighted as the objective of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19146	Thank you. First Stojanka Petkovic, a folk MP, and then Veroljub Arsic. That's the order. Here you go. You'll have to insert the card again and just press this button in the middle once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19147	Dear President, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Road Safety Law proposed by the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and differed in certain provisions from the draft legislation that was agreed by the relevant ministries and representatives of the profession in 2005. Otherwise, all the institutes envisioned by the 2005 proposal have been largely implemented in the official proposal for road safety legislation, which has been in the assembly procedure since April 2009. It may be that in this law, as in many laws, there are a number of shortcomings. But I sincerely hope that the members of the government, like the number of amendments, will review all of this and accept amendments that will make this law richer and thus implement a better law for all citizens. Today I did not define myself to criticise the law, but rather to talk about the positiveism of this law, which differs from the previous law, and what it would do to improve and create traffic security on the roads today and in the future. The new institutions envisioned by the draft law are the Body for the Coordination of Traffic Safety Operations, the Road Safety Agency, newspapers in traffic rules, criminal points, etc. As for the Body for the Co-ordination of Traffic Safety Affairs, that body should educate the government. Some of the tasks of the Body are the co-operation and coordination of operations in the function of improving and security of traffic on roads, initiating and monitoring other activities in the area of traffic security, proposing a national traffic security strategy on the roads of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which should approve this. As for the activities of the Agency for Traffic Safety, I will only point out that, on a proposal from the Ministry of Traffic Affairs, the Agency, some of its activities: analysis, monitoring and improvement of the traffic safety system, work to improve the safety of drivers and other traffic participants, etc. Some newspapers, when it comes to traffic rules, are more widely held accountable due to potential dangers, bans on mobile phones, bans on selling, use and advertising of anti-radars, light-resistance vests, obligation to carry in the vehicle, use and outside the vehicle, the obligation to use daylight by day, a safety basket for a child under the age of three and the possibility of transport and at the front seat in that case, a general limit on the speed of movement in the village of 50 km per hour, which was 60 in the previous law. What I would especially point out is a violent drive. These are, say, two or more passages through the red light, crossing the vehicle column along the full length line. It is, therefore, a misdemeanor of a driver who is contrary to traffic rules, or when someone who is a driver does not show consideration for the safety of other traffic users. Something more about alcohol. Some general restrictions, as you can see, are now allowed, under the new law, to limit 0.3 of the blood, and for special categories of drivers, they are not allowed to have any alcohol in their system. First of all, it refers to drivers who have a basic occupation, drivers in public transport. For larger quantities of alcohol in the blood, it is in the process of law enforcement and penalties between 6,000 and 20,000 dinars. These are now criminal points, depending on the concentration of alcohol in the body, from 6 to 12, and for alcoholation more than 2 promiscuous 14 criminal points and a minimum of 15 days in prison. Jurisdictions for legal persons and entrepreneurs represent extremely large penalties. The penalty points in this law represent a newspaper, and whoever collects 18 penalty points will lose his license and will have to pay the fine and, of course, if he wants to drive again, he will have to pass the test of knowledge. Since I hear a lot of times today that 18 points is really a lot, I'm going to do one. I followed the law, something like that, in the Kosovo Assembly, and there are no points, but at points. One speaker said -- eight points lose driver's license, with six points of agreement between Eulex and Belgrade losing Kosovo's independence. A driver who does not collect any points during the year will be classified in the category of more careful drivers, and that is something that is also new and positive in this law. What is important is the adoption of this law also says that in the world every year, traffic accidents on the roads suffer nearly one million and two hundred thousand people, and another few million are injured, which is the second leading cause of death in the younger population, from 5 to 25 years of age. Black statistics say that in Serbia there is someone in every third hospital bed who is injured in a car accident. In 2007, there were 70,735 car accidents in Serbia, in which 962 people died, while 22,201 people were injured. In most cases, it's caused by human factor, drunk driving, unadjusted speed, non-compliance with traffic regulations. In 2007, demographic and traffic indicators of the number of car accidents with victims and severity are alarming. On average, two to three people die a day. Also, based on EU data, Serbia in the number of traffic accidents in Europe alone surpasses Turkey. Experts say about a thousand people are killed annually on Serbia's roads, up to five times the European average. Despite the terrible statistics, the 1982 Transport Safety Act is still in force in Serbia. Traffic experts indicate that two-thirds of road accidents are due to inadequate speed, age of the vehicle, alcohol and non-compliance with the rules. The important factor in car accidents is human indifference. Statistics also say that in as many as 85% of accidents are caused by a man, or by a driver, and only 15% go to a vehicle malfunction or by bad roads. Every sixth car accident in Serbia occurs due to the use of a mobile phone by a driver during a driving trip. Safe behavior in traffic is of vital importance. People make a lot of mistakes when they think it doesn't matter if they're only 10 miles per hour. They don't realize that even small excesses can cause huge problems, that by just over 10 kilometers per hour, you can even have a fatal outcome. So, for example, almost anywhere in the world the fastest possible speed on the roads is limited to 120 kilometers per hour. One year, the Americans moved that limit only 10 km per hour, or the maximum speed allowed was 130 km. However, that year, a dramatic increase in the number of traffic accidents, including injured and killed, has already returned the limit as anywhere in the world in the coming years, i.e. 120 kilometers per hour. The biggest problem is non-compliance with traffic regulations. In respect of traffic regulations, it should come from the most banal, such as belting. Sometimes accidents can't be avoided, but if a man is tied up, the possibility of staying alive and being hurt less is certainly greater. When traffic police forced citizens to use the safety belt in 2002, the following year, 30% were injured and killed in car accidents in 2003. Thus, the deaths in Serbia in 2001 were 1,247 and the following year, when punishment was imposed, 846. Severely injured in 2001 were between 15,000 and 18,000, and belt fastening reduced that figure to 10,500. In Serbia, about 1,000 people are killed annually, as much as five times the European average. By preventing drunk driving and overspeed, wearing a helmet, fastening a belt, as well as building roads and infrastructure can be reduced... (President: Mrs. Petkovic, ten minutes, as far as you were available, expired. Bring the end. Let me finish. I'm glad Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is present right now. I spoke to young people in Kosovo and Metohija about this law. Mr. Mrkonjic, young people are asking you to tour the route on the route of Kosovo Mitrovica - Jarinje, which has been damaged for ten years by the arrival of KFOR vehicles and which is indeed one of the major causes of traffic accidents and the large deaths of young people on that stake. So, just once again to invite all MPs to vote for this law because this is something that will contribute to the safety of all road traffic users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19148	Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19149	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am not going to deal with the numbers in the crashes, what kind of law had the effect of applying the law, etc., but I would ask the MPs who suggest we vote for this law, drive a little less, drive a little bit more, suggest that they now sit in their vehicle for about 16 hours, even the ones that officially come to the assembly sessions and try to get somewhere in Belgrade and guarantee me that this law will bring all the problems we have in Belgrade and all of Serbia to solve. He won't. That's the problem. We can talk about the laws for many things, but most often many other factors affect traffic safety. I totally agree that there's something urgent to be done about traffic security. It's just enough to look at the paper a few years back and you'll see how many citizens died in those car accidents, how many young people were lost, how many children and even the baby died. But that's not the problem that's going to be solved by this law, unfortunately. Traffic security is affected by a lot of factors. In the first place, it affects the awareness of all traffic participants. I don't see how we're going to get rid of some old and bad habits by applying this law. It affects the work and quality of the traffic police in terms of education and traffic regulation. Except in Belgrade, traffic is not regulated anywhere else in Serbia. It affects the quality of the roads, and in the end, for those extreme cases, which so far have been affected by criminal policy. As for the introduction of licenses for instructors, professional drivers, persons conducting a technical examination, I have to tell law makers that the ministry is being cheated, and all these people who need to take these exams and go to seminars. This will not affect traffic safety, but it will affect the financial situation of those who put this into law because they will be lecturers in these seminars. I'm just going to ask people who are a little bit into human nature. Will the effect on him have some class that will last for hours or one movie of 20 minutes or half an hour? It is indisputable that the person who passed the driving test has certain knowledge through participation in traffic. It turns that knowledge into a skill. His seminar, when it comes to his skill, doesn't matter. He's already a driver. The problem is, he's keeping his temper on while he's driving. And the best way is to show all professional drivers, all instructors and all persons who have a driver's license and do not have 30 completed years for them, especially every third year, pictures and movies from accidents and car accidents. Let them see what it means, and what it can do to make good traffic behavior. Licenses won't fix it. That's when it comes to raising drivers in a nice way. Another factor that certainly affects traffic safety is the work of the traffic police, and our work of the traffic police is about a small war between the driver and the policeman. I see there's a gentleman from the Department of Traffic Police. Is it normal for a traffic patrol to set up a radar and record vehicles coming out of the restricted zone? Just enough to cross the other side of the road and protect the restricted zone. I've intervened several times. That ugly habit with our traffic police remains. I'm telling you the experience of my life and my participation in traffic in 20 years and over a million miles. Is it normal for a traffic cop to stop me at one o'clock in the morning and say, "Sir, you went 48 an hour, the limit is 40, the school is here?" Let's get somebody to explain it to me. Is that normal? Or, stop the vehicle, come to the driver, take his IDs, in the dark, outside the inhabited place, and send him, such a driver – cross over the road to show you the radar. And then this one stands by the car, a traffic cop sits in the car, and it's still raining, like it's for spite, and he writes a man's application while this one freezes and clucks. I ask the question – is the traffic police there to create security conditions or to make them worse? Did a police officer endanger the safety of traffickers because he sent them to cross a street like this? Yes, and he has to take care of his safety first. Are we going to talk about the fact that at 500 meters from the address of the registered vehicle, a traffic cop has been talking for 20 minutes about how the driver must have confirmation, even though the vehicle is led to his father and lives on the same address, and only 100 meters behind him on the circuit line is 200 people and he's not responding? Shall we talk about that the other day, when I was coming to Belgrade, about 40km from Nis direction towards Belgrade, no less, no more than in the cow's protective belt? You've heard well, cow. I've interviewed traffic police several times to get to the scene and it's not happening anymore, but no one's responding. It's not that bad, come on, it's a cow, it's like a guard, but there's a hole in the protective fence. Some got burned on those holes, I don't want to talk about it. When it comes to life experiences, it's only one small part, but what's ugliest is happening in smaller cities than Belgrade, to sometimes schedule traffic regulation by traffic lights. There's a traffic jam, traffic police are being notified, so they can get a notice -- no patrol can get out and regulate traffic because they have a speed control action from the ministry and they can't send any traffic patrol to the scene unless they come, as they say, to "knocking." Is it necessary for someone to get hurt to intervene with the traffic police or to be there for the safety of all traffic users, to regulate traffic in the first place? To be clear, I don't blame those traffic cops for anything they did. Most of them are honest and good people. I blame you who are responsible for their work, because you haven't taught them how to do what's right, because you're making them do what's wrong, because you're determining how many penalties they have to charge for one shift. In order to have traffic safety, it is necessary, firstly, that there is trust between all traffic users, between traffic police and other participants, and drivers. That participants in traffic understand and accept that a police officer is not there to punish them, but, firstly, for their safety in traffic, traffic regulation, help if they need it, and those extremes are served by the police. What it looks like to you is when, now, this is more about the interior minister, the gendarmes and the intervention units coming out at night and controlling traffic without proper equipment, they don't have the red light to stop the vehicle, they don't have a fluorescent vest, but he's cops and the law. And here in law you predict it must have a driver. Well, apply to your men first. If you don't, get 'em. If you can't, don't send them there. If they want to control the vehicle so badly, they can deal with their colleagues from the traffic police, so let them do it together, I don't mind. That problem can certainly be solved. We have another new appointment - a violent drive. It's already something that's very disputable. We're back in the law of a vehicle with a pass-by championship. I agree that every country, including Serbia, must in certain situations have such vehicles, which are not purely police, but are accompanied by some public figures. But I can't understand that the minister, who isn't even scheduled to have personal security, is sitting in a vehicle with a pass-by championship, wild in Belgrade, wild in the open road, that anyone who finds himself in front of him (one time it happened to me) must head off whether or not he saw that vehicle in time or not. That's what I can say about Mr. Minister Dinkic. Would you like a date, too? I asked one of the MPs a question. Leave more of that, rotation, lights and sirens on, if you really don't need it. If the late gentleman is five, ten, fifteen minutes or an hour, it's no big deal. If anyone gets hurt, it's terrible. It seems to me, someone said, a smart man learns from other people's mistakes, a fool on his own, and an idiot repeats them. Don't make any mistakes. Remember what happened in Belgrade seven or eight years ago. Take that measure of violent driving and that kind of vehicle. Let me ask you another question. You've determined what qualification it is for a violent drive. But what about expensive darkened glass vehicles when entering Belgrade? Is it a violent ride when the great majority of drivers patiently wait on the August tapes when they're going to turn on or off from some intersection, and the 'fired' on the right, and only 'wipes'? Is that a violent ride, on the stop lane? You didn't consider that. What? Could they be friends like that for you? There is also the minister of infrastructure, I know Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic likes to walk from time to time in the Karadjordjev park, I don't mind, but I'm asking him a question now – Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, didn't those big jeeps cross the road from Karadjorje's park in Nebojsa Street, with darkened glass, parked and left behind so that your vehicles couldn't pass? You have this colleague Dacic. Say, we have to take care of every street in Belgrade, this doesn't look like anything anymore. If he calls for a spider to come, he'll come, but he won't stick to the jeep. Preferably for "Yugo" because behind "South" no one stands, for his driver there is no one to prepare. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, will be able to convince you to vote for one of these laws when we know that everyone before this law will be equal and when I know that violent driving will be punished and those in expensive cars with darkened windows, and so far that has not been a practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19150	You spoke for 15 and a half minutes, so your MP group stayed for another minute and a half. The People's Messenger Jovan Palalić has the word, and let Ivan Jovanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19151	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during our debate yesterday, there is an undivided opinion that there was a need for a change to the Law on traffic safety on the roads. More or less most parliamentary groups spoke about how the previous law in many of its provisions was bad and overcome. I want to say in this discussion what kind of atmosphere this law is passed in and what the public's impression of the Traffic Safety Act is on the roads. Although we have heard from the government's representatives, from the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Infrastructure that the basic intensity, the essence of this law, is prevention, I am convinced that all citizens, and a large number of citizens are watching this transfer, with great concern, are following the debate on this law. With concerns about what, although new institutes have been talking about, new solutions, new institutions, what has prevailed in the public on the adoption of this law is tightening - tightening the conditions, tightening the criminal policy. It is an atmosphere in which Serbian citizens welcome the adoption of this law. Although prevention policy has been promoted through various institutions and institutes, through strategy, through plans, through education, through new policies, through better technical traffic regulation, it remains the impression that prevention is carried out through a stricter criminal policy. And that's the basic problem in this law. The second thing I'd like to say in this discussion is the fact that it hasn't given up, and that's the continuity with the solutions that existed in the still applicable law, that still the greatest responsibility for traffic violations comes down to drivers. Article 42, all of us who have been dealing with unadjusted speed problems in practice know that a driver cannot be a superman who can fulfill these terms, this broad and flexible standard given in article 42 on unadjusted speed. She's staying here, and there's no way the driver won't be punished. So the continuity of thinking remains in this law as well. I want to say about this imbalance, this imbalance in institutions and institutes regarding prevention. Although we want to introduce a new institution such as the Agency, yet important solutions that this agency should have are taken away from it and left to the police. Good solutions are that the Agency is involved in education and improving traffic knowledge. It's a very important newspaper, strengthening a culture in the area of traffic. If we have this idea that the driver's relationship to traffic is improving, we should have gone one step further and left room for the Agency to deal with it. In our parliamentary group, we thought that the criminal record should be the Agency's jurisdiction, that the Agency is following it, that the Agency is dealing with individual drivers, their problems in traffic situations and what mistakes they made, not that it remains a mere police record, which no one will deal with, except as a fact that it represents punishment. Local self-government should have been obliged to deal with traffic security, not to make a college determination. Most of them, under the conditions of the economic crisis, the savings announced, the removal of the transfer funds, will certainly not deal with traffic security policies, but will deal with the underlying problems now in local self-government. And local self-governments needed to be forced to have very important responsibilities, especially in the field of technical traffic regulation. The problem that arises in these institutions, i.e. The absence of will to be transferred to them by broad jurisdiction, the absence of will to improve and transfer funds, is something that retains the impression that tightening criminal policy is the way to carry out prevention. Ask any MPs, talking to citizens is the first question – how much are the penalties increased? As long as it is mentioned that prison sentences have been imposed, believe that a very poor opinion on intensity exists in the public. Is the responsibility of the government and the ministry that was not more actively involved in promoting these solutions and needs or was the fact that it was left alone as something to come by itself, the big question. The debate was about corruption. This is a great responsibility and responsibility of the Ministry of Transport for other institutions, such as the Agency, education, education, improving traffic education, which is an area given to the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Education should play an outstanding role there. Although the fact that punishment on the spot will not be charged, it will be issued and given to persons suspected of committing a crime to pay the fine, you do not prevent corruption. That person can make a deal on the spot with a police officer and pay him for it - don't sign me up, don't tell me I've committed a crime, and there won't be a warrant. I don't think, of course, there's enough work to be done when a foreign person commits a crime and has to pay the fine. The additional problem here is the announcement that school and preschool institutions will be more seriously approached by education in the field of traffic, but when we see that the minister of education is now taking hold of the head what this rebalancing has done when it comes to higher education, how can we believe that the government will at all seriously invest funds to revive these institutes. So, the general impression is that, on the one hand, new institutes have been introduced, shown through a declaration of goodwill, but these institutes will not live, institutes relating to improving education, including as many institutions as possible in the process of improving traffic culture and at all increasing traffic safety. On the other hand, the first public impression is a sharp criminal policy, a repressive policy against those who commit crimes. It can give effect. That, by the way, Minister Dacic spoke about the 2002 data, when a set of amendments to the law was passed, but that is not enough for the overall attitude towards traffic culture. In that sense, I think the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia are in this very direction, that it strengthens the position of the Agency and its competences in this particular domain and, on the other hand, commits local self-government to one more active policy. We will take active part in the debate when it comes to amendments. We will try to explain the integrity and significance of these amendments that would be incorporated, if there were any good will by the government, in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19152	Thank you. I'd like to inform you... I'll give you my word. On Thursday, May 14, 2009, since 1625, due to earlier commitments, it is a transfer of Serbia's European football championship qualification match, RTS will not be able to broadcast our session directly, which will be delayed for later tonight, so the transfer will be tonight. Please, Mr. Nikolic, just sign up so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19153	You've given me now creamworth. I'm calling in an article. 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You cannot give an answer and inform the congregation that the transfer will be later. I want to remind you, both you and the entire Assembly and the public, that RTS is a public service. That "later" can be at 11 o'clock, it can be at 3 o'clock, it can be tomorrow, and it can be a little tomorrow. It is unacceptable for you, as president of the assembly, to have no information as to when the transfer will continue. You are under obligation to inform the MPs and the National Assembly when exactly the transfer will be postponed. What I reported today was a lot of problems in the functioning of the Public Service when it comes to the transfer of the National Assembly. I'll remind you that today's authorised representative for this traffic safety law is Professor Zoran Shami. When he explained the law, half the speech was frozen, no tone was heard at the end of the talk. The next DSS speaker was Mr. Petkovic. At first there were tons, and the other two-thirds of the tone speech was gone. Now you've given information that the game's transmission has been starting since 1625 hours. In 1619 the transmission was interrupted, just as our third speaker, Mr. Palalic, spoke. Today, DSS representatives are absolutely prevented from expressing their views and from getting to know the public about the DSS's views. I think you also have an obligation to protect this Parliament, not to have these things happen. So, there were a lot of speakers today, of course, from a lot of parties, but this only happened with DSS MPs. Once again, please tell me exactly when a delayed TV broadcast will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19154	The delayed TV broadcast will be after the Eurovision tonight. As for your comments, they'll be forwarded to RTS and we'll get an answer as to whether it was trendy. I personally don't believe it, but we will, in any case, ask, in accordance with the comments you've had, an explanation of RTS. Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19155	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the law that is on the agenda absolutely exceeds the day-to-day political action of political parties, because of the importance that all respected colleagues have highlighted in their discussions. The very fact that this law lasted six years shows how seriously all those involved in the drafting of this law approached the work and how serious and serious the dilemmas we face today in the National Assembly. On behalf of the SP and the List for European Serbia, I will point out that we support the bill, which is largely in line with the spirit of time, with the needs of time, with the level of technological development, with the traffic situation, but also because it is in spirit with the legal solutions that exist today in the countries of the European Union and the fact that our country has signed and ratified many international agreements and conventions in the field of traffic. I think that respected colleagues have made the most important part of the remarks and the dilemma that the proposed law needs to be improved and I will also try to impose some dilemmas to come to the best solution after the debate is concluded. There is no analysis, but we are witnessing in everyday life that the use of mobile phones during driving is often caused by car accidents. I agree with colleagues who felt that the use of anti-radar devices should not be prohibited, so-called anti-radar devices. detectors, but this should not apply to devices that interfere with the operation of those in charge of traffic control, because traffic control is a serious state business. Many colleagues mentioned that several years ago the law was amended and that the obligation to use safety belts was then introduced. That's not true. This solution also existed in this exceeded traffic safety law on roads, but in practice it was not respected. Then came the time for those provisions to be respected, and we immediately have official indicators that suggest that respect for these provisions reduced the number of people killed and injured in car accidents. Because it is generally known that the non-use of safety belts kills both the head and chest baskets and extremities and the abdominal organs, even at collision speeds that seem to be small, let's say 40-50 kilometers per hour, but in direct collisions, impact speeds are accumulated, and if two vehicles go to each other at a speed of only 40 kilometers per hour, it will mean that the driver hit an immovable obstacle, let's say in some concrete wall, at a speed of 80 kilometers per hour. So that speed isn't underestimation speed. It's a great Institute of Violent Driving. Maybe we should expand it to other cases. In Kragujevac, the so-called "Kravujevac" existed for the past few years. "Serbian roulette", "shumadian" or "kragujevaci", depending on what those who had dealt with it called it violent driving. Simply, in the late evening hours, young people would catch a few traffic lights, race, and the consequences of their irresponsible games were terrible. As far as lighting vests are concerned, it's also an extraordinary provision. The lighting vest is very cheap, it can be found in the sale for 150 or 200 dinars, and believe that in 90% or all 100% of cases it allows traffickers to see each other in time, because those provisions, for example, that a cyclist should have forward one light, yellow or white color, and behind the catadiopter, in a people called the "cattle eye", believe that in practice it doesn't do much good, because that light is very weak. The catadiopter is often dirty, so the safety vest not only for cyclists, but also for other traffic participants that are scheduled, will certainly greatly reduce the number of people killed in car accidents. It is also an excellent provision for compulsory use of a safety helmet, as research in EU countries has shown that, for example, the number of head injuries is reduced to 50% or 60% in situations where a safety helmet is used relative to a situation where it does not appear. The vehicle in motion is a dangerous thing. Mass times acceleration is equal force, and force, especially when having contact with unprotected traffic participants, pedestrians, cyclists, children, disabled people etc. has great and serious consequences. This is why it is good that this system of objective responsibility has been introduced, as the current system has shown great abuses. One dilemma that existed during this debate is about a former member of 45. The traffic safety law on the roads, and now it's Article 42. I agree with my colleague Palalic, and we have met professionally, believe that this noose provision is around all drivers' necks. I don't even know how many times I've defended traffickers and then an expert traffic profession to find that, say, on a stock that allows the speed of movement of 60, 80 or 100 kilometers per hour, the driver was moving at twice the speed. But this provision, that it should have predicted that, in the conditions of reduced visibility, on the way to a drunk man, that, in terms of conditions, when you're driving Belgrade and every second you're walking past a few dozen feet per second, one foot for no reason to run in front of your vehicle, and that, for example, at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour, the vehicle will cross 23.6 meters per second, which means that at a speed of 50 kilometers per hour the vehicle passes about 12 meters per second, the driver for so on. A psycho-technical second, for that time distance to spot the obstacle, to react, to move the foot off the brake pedal, to get the brake mechanism's response, takes an average of one second. In one second, the driver, at a speed of 50 kilometers per hour, has crossed 12 meters and after that we only have brake marks, etc., so the stop route is much faster. Then a dilemma is being put in place, at which rate each of us should move to Belgrade. Is it necessary, when he walks past every foot, to open a window and ask him, "I'm sorry, are you going to maybe run through August unannounced, so I can reduce the speed to two kilometers per hour, so I can stop the car by three meters?" In my practice, I had one case from Gornji Milanovac. The driver drove 24 kilometers per hour, walked by the parked van behind which the girl took off because the ball came out in August. An expert in the traffic profession found that the driver was driving double and higher than that at a lower speed than permitted. The court logic was this: on the other side of the street was another girl, who was the school friend of this girl who ran out on August, so the driver, seeing the girl on the left side of August, had to predict that there would be a girl on the right side of August, so that he adjusted his speed of movement and, if he had driven at 11 kilometers per hour, there would be no accident. Therefore, this is such an unserious and irresponsible provision and, I say, noose around all drivers, that in practice it leaves room for the following situations: a security driver drives, no guilt to him, no car accident, no criminal proceedings, and everyone sees him as someone who killed someone with his own guilt or inflicted a serious physical injury. If there are conditions, and most often there are, for compensation, besides this moral damage that the driver, who is not guilty, suffers, he has to pay more material damage, and if he has also inflicted injuries that remain permanent consequences, and are common to health, then he has to endure it for life, to pay for his disability, etc., and on the other hand, the traffic participant who was extremely irresponsible is rewarded for it. As a result, that provision on the principle of trust in traffic had to be incorporated into this law. The driver was convicted of driving at the speed allowed in conditions of reduced visibility due to rain and therefore increased reflections of August. On the road he was moving at the speed allowed, was a drunk man who was in delirious tremens with almost three grams of alcohol spilled on the organism. The driver said he saw something but it was too late and he hit that man and the consequence was death. That man was sentenced to prison. In Novi Sad, the driver was driving in the third August lane compared to the sidewalk on which the pedestrians were located. The walking in an alcoholic state ran between two rows of vehicles, in conditions of also reduced visibility, when there was a green light for the driver and the driver said - only in front of me suddenly saw something. Is he supposed to expect that 15 meters before the traffic light, when there's a green light, someone running between two columns of the vehicle, and he can't even see a moment of entry, he can only see the moment he shows up in front of him on foot, and what happens? I thought that man was 50 when I saw him in custody, but he was only 30 years old. It was so hard for him to fall, and plus he was convicted, plus he paid the damages. There are therefore somewhat different rules in EU countries compared to Serbia. The crosswalk is sacred. The pedestrian won't think at all if someone's gonna stop when he walks into a walking passage. Such behaviour must also be with our traffic participants. It's the other way around. It's a surprise when someone misses a foot. The pedestrian can't believe someone stopped the vehicle and gave it a pass. But on the other hand, if they're pedestrians, and they're supposed to be, a protected category of traffic participants, then let's protect the drivers. Is there a driver's obligation to drive on a green light to expect a pedestrian to run and to be always led under this provision that he should and could have predicted such behaviour? I don't think anyone who hasn't actually met this problem can fully understand it. I wouldn't want anything like that to happen to anyone, because only then would they fully understand the provision I was talking about. Due to the fact that this law largely foresees education at all levels, starting with preschool education, that good results can give education, prevention and repression or criminal policy, the SPO will vote in favour of this law, with a request that these suggestions be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19156	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you advertise the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19157	Madam Chairman, all I wanted was for the sake of the colleagues who are participating in the debate to ask if we were in the transmission of the moment you said the transfer would be delayed. As I followed the minute and time, we weren't on the wire, so the Serbian citizens don't know that tonight at what time they'll be able to track Parliament's further work, and you're about half-four, as I recall, said we'll be working after 1800 hours on the agenda. These aren't agenda points that the public wouldn't be interested in. First of all, I'm referring to the proposal for a general product safety law. We will also have the opening word of the authorised minister in front of the government. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will speak. I believe that tonight absolutely no one will follow. I think it's incorrect of you to make it impossible for both the government and parliament to get to know the public about such important laws that will be on the agenda. It seems to me, with his negligence or poor coordination with the Public Service, which has not been adequately followed today by this Parliament's work. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask you to deal with this problem a little bit more. Because this isn't our first time, and it won't be the last time we meet in a situation like this, especially when we hear that certain channels are going to go out, like the SOS channel, and who would be interested except for the Public Service to shut down that channel, so we'll often have tennis, basketball, football, etc. I don't think it really makes sense that in time you don't decide how we're going to do it, and today wasn't exactly necessary, it's not about the head that we have to work after 1800 hours and deny the public of Serbia (President: It's been two minutes. To get to know this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19158	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The public in the work is secure. It is ensured that the transfer will be delayed after the Eurovision transfer. That's what I said at the moment I was informed. So, we're committed to providing the public with work and she's provided. Anyway, thanks for the suggestion, although there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go. There's only four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19159	Thank you. I'm the fourth speaker of the DSS today. The last three had no tone, and I'm lucky I have no tone, no picture. After that finding, I just have to say a few introductory words about the bill. We've waited a long time for this law to finally enter the procedure, about six years and different versions. This latest version, which of the professional public, of the interested public was very well assessed and was thought to be important to improve traffic safety, unfortunately, is not before us today. There is something before us today that is a hybrid, a mixture of all the proposals that have been in place for the past six years. The DSS does not dispute that it is necessary to pass a new law and that the law that now applies is quite exceeded in many segments, but that it, the truth works, has not been implemented very well. Serbia, unfortunately, belongs to those countries that have a very large number of fatal accidents in the past year, over 887. It is necessary to say that the law is not only the cause of all this. The state of the infrastructure in Serbia needs to be taken into account, cars must be taken care of, what age, what state of regularity citizens drive in thanks to their low standard. It must also be taken into account that the line crossings are unmarked. There are a number of reasons why we have this number of car accidents. A few things to say. I've really followed everything that's been going on in this area and the expert public to propose this bill that's ahead of us says it's police law, which won't root out corruption. She'll just get another form. There's one more thing to say. The best example of how the ruling coalition is experiencing democracy is precisely a proposal for this law -- road repression, repression in the Serbian Parliament. One more thing to say, the accent of this law is at the height of fines, on pretty insecure penalties, and it's all going on under security. What I'm saying is that safety has nothing to do with it. The point of the story is to get as much money into the budget as possible, because you obviously have a problem with budgeting. If you look at the facts, 70% of the fines charged goes into Serbia's budget, and 75% of that figure goes to the MIP, which, I'm not saying it's big, I think it's very damaged by this last rebalancing, but the fact is that the writer of this law is the MUP, that the MUP should control this law and enforce it. My colleagues at the DSS have said a lot of facts about this law. Unfortunately, I don't have much time to do this, but I want to comment on what most MPs have spoken about this law, and it belongs to the ruling coalition, she said. I see they, Mr. Minister, are very competitive for some reason to congratulate you on the successes of 2012, when the effects of this law will feel. I simply have no confidence that in 2012 you will have the effects of this law, because on repression you cannot rest any law. You mentioned prevention and education, but it went slowly somewhere along with this law. On the other hand, I see that the Minister of Ecology says he's going to introduce ecology into schools, that you're going to introduce a security prevention in school, and I'm coming from school and I'm asking you what time you're going to do it, because the students are overloaded and without these two announced cases. What's my message is that this law with the amendments that the DSS has made can be fixed, but to fix it significantly - it can't. The repression, unfortunately, has never brought results either (President: Time. ), just to finish the sentence, see what the impact combinations in the countries in the environment that have recently passed this law, BiH, Montenegro, Croatia look like. Everywhere where only repression is put as an accent, there are increased car accidents, not reductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19160	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zarko Pivac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19161	Madam President, the presidency, gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given that the old law came into force in 1984 and that it was outdated and exceeded, it was necessary to pass a new law, which would allow for increasing the security of all traffic participants, as well as its easier direct application. The positive provisions of this bill refer to part, first of all, of criminal policies, as well as the introduction of the fine points themselves, then the notion of a violent driving, as well as the possibility of temporary or permanent withdrawal of a driving licence for unconscious and dangerous drivers, which, by the old law, was possible until now. However, we believe that the way of training, primarily theoretically, as well as the act of passing a driving test, which is prescribed by Articles 221, 222, and 236 of this Act, is organised at a level that does not satisfy the expertise and quality of training of the candidates and future drivers themselves, because persons who conduct theoretical teaching, training and the act of conducting the driving exam themselves do not have the appropriate professional training, a work license, which will not allow quality and well-trained drivers to go out on our roads. The relevant expertise and quality of training shall be required when passing first-aid tests in Article 241. It's a bill of law from the driver's exam. A similar situation is also the case with companies dealing with the technical examination of the vehicle, because the criminal policy is harsh and very rigorous, which is positive, but on the other hand the conditions are related to the professional staff working on a technical examination at a low and inadequate level. Certain terms, such as the inhabited place, must be more precisely defined and adapted to the real conditions of life. With regard to the speed limit of 50 kilometers per hour, it is regulated in Article 7 of point 28, and the definition of settlements must be explained more precisely, as Article 43 specified precisely that the speed limit in the settlement is 50 kilometers per hour. In urban areas and densely populated towns, it is clear what the settlement means, but in rural areas, for example. Eastern Serbia or Petrovac, Kučevo, etc., it is not possible to clearly specify what a populated place is, as rural houses are disbanded rarely exist on both sides of the road. For this reason, it is better to maintain a speed limit of 60 kilometers in those cases. On this occasion, I would only stick to the part about training candidates for drivers, because it is known that without quality training there are no high-quality drivers, and using the experience of people who have years of experience in this business. These are some of the suggestions the government may adopt in the meantime. Article 216 states that the person must not start training for the driver unless he has confidence in health skills. The only question is, what about theoretical training, does that mean that a person can start theoretical training and perform a theoretical part of a driver's exam without a conviction of health skills? In Article 221, it determines which conditions must be met by a lecturer of theoretical teaching, and point 1 says that it must have at least a higher level of professional training in the field of traffic safety, roadway, or high professional training of any profession and at least five years of work experience in the field of traffic security. Article 222 defines areas and objects that the lecturer should master, which are all from the field of traffic. For this reason, it is necessary, since it is a field lecture and preparation for the passing of a driving exam, that the lecturer be an exclusive person who has a high level of professional training of the traffic direction, i.e. a graduate traffic engineer or possibly a graduate lawyer with five years of experience in this area. It is only by professional and quality work that it is possible to ensure that car-schools come out of our homes trained and quality drivers, and you will admit, it is difficult for any other professions that meet the conditions of having five years of work experience, as chairman of the driver's examination committee, which has been a very common case so far. Such a proposal, which is referred to in Article 221, for a lecturer of theoretical teaching, can hardly lead to a rise in the quality and training of candidates. In Article 236, you say that the examination committee consists of two members, one of whom is a police officer, and the other is an interrogator from a legal person. The position of the fourth member states that the legal person is required to organise and carry out the driving exam in a prescribed manner. These few members clearly show that all responsibility is on the legal person, that the MUP has obtained all the powers, although they are equally involved in the work of the commission. On the basis of this proposal for a law, the MUP determines the questions, combinations for these issues, conducts the examination and monitors. It is obvious that the powers are too high and that, for example, the questions in question, which are public, under Article 234 should be determined by the Transport Safety Agency. Article 211 provides that the IAP is closer to laying down rules on the content and manner of keeping car-school records. For reasons so far, it is illogical for the same authority to exercise supervision on one side, to provide certain regulations and contents regarding this surveillance. For this reason, regulations, contents and methods of management should be entrusted to the Agency if the MUP retains supervision. In the section relating to companies, Article 259, which deals with technical examinations, there must be at least two controls with medium expertise. In view of the powers given in the work and in the problem, it is necessary for this company to possess a responsible person with high expertise in the traffic or machinery direction and an appropriate licence obtained by the Agency. Penalties for unauthorized and unconscious work are large and often lead to the closure of these societies. If they repeat more than twice in 10 years, they lead to the withdrawal of the work permit. It might be good here to apply, for example, the principle of work of pharmacy, which cannot be opened, or work, unless they hire a graduate pharmacist, which means that these companies, for whose opening and purchase of equipment is necessary more than 50,000 euros, must be employed as the responsible face of a graduate traffic engineer or machinery, who will be responsible for the safe workings of these companies and in a professional way, on the other hand, to protect the interests of the companies themselves. I only have one more suggestion. Article 264 states that the government sets the lowest price for a regular technical review on a proposal from the ministry responsible for trade and services. I think that a sentence should be added - in the prepared opinion of the Transport Safety Agency, as a competent authority in this area. It may be a little strange that these suggestions are presented this way, but of course the ruling majority also wants to improve the law. The law is good. I remind you, Mr. Minister, and fellow MPs, as I said at the beginning, that the existing law has long been overcome and is not in line with the changes that have happened in the past 25 years. That is why it is necessary to pass this law and to adopt, hopefully, all these, in my opinion, constructive proposals, and in order to implement a more efficient and quality new traffic safety law. The adoption of this law will lead to an improvement in traffic security and MPs of the Democratic Party and the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia will support the law in the voting day. She called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19162	Thank you, Mr. Beer. The People's Messenger Jasmina Milosevic has the word. You still haven't used your full time as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19163	I'm a little provoked by the exposure of some colleagues who have been slightly casually and quite unprofessionally using expressions that are truly completely professional, as regards traffic, beginning with the very definition of traffic, which, as I have already compared to the previous law, where Professor Vujanić gave the exact same... And I don't get it at all, if this definition is given by a man who's been in traffic for 30 years, and the exponent of his profession is not good, whose definition is good? If I were to make a cut, I could just say that this is the directional movement of the vehicle, and that doesn't change the definition that's already given here. We have colleagues who have mixed up city traffic and security, something called city spikes, which is all over the world a normal phenomenon, and that's why this law needs to teach us order, how we should behave in these situations. We had a colleague who complained that she couldn't find any statistics on accidents, what sights and factors were, the causes of car accidents. I'm sorry she's not here, how easily I found that data, and she could have wanted it. She was most interested in what time it was when there were the most injured. It's from 19 to 25 years old. What's interesting is they've even been defined for months when these accidents have been very common. Finally, I just want to say, since it is often mentioned that it is police law, it is obvious that it is people who are also not informed again, that it is a law that is literally a compromise between the law done by Mr Vujanic and his Committee on Transport Security, or the police, which is quite accidentally in this case the one that proposes the law. There could have been a promoter and the Ministry of Infrastructure, it could actually have been anyone working on this law, even an institution, could have been a CIP promoter. I repeat once again that the law has been done by experts, the exhibits of their profession from the Ministry of Education, Infrastructure, Police, Health, Transport-related enterprises. What is important, apart from better security by adopting this law, this law implies a wider protection system, which also establishes regular financing of this sector, which is also important, and then sets up and develops a regular strategy and plans concerning traffic security. What is also important is the introduction of a legal obligation for authorities to deal with the continuity of this area. What I was still trying to say is that this law really protects people who rarely commit less traffic violations, and often and almost daily commit brutal traffic violations, so that the dragons' penalties that will be imposed on them are entirely appropriate, even to the withdrawal of the vehicle and the driver's license itself. This law is applicable, which is also obvious through its role that will later be seen in its implementation and what is also important (here I am literally finishing), it is that no one has mentioned the role of the media, which is also crucial, as regards the implementation of this law itself, because with continued education and constant warning and various actions we can also influence to increase traffic security. The moment has come when we have to settle down to countries that manage traffic security. This is the first step of the three that are ahead of us. The first is the adoption of the law, the other two refer to continuous supervision and control of law enforcement, and the third will be the review of the effects of the application of this law, which will clearly tell us if we have made a mistake, whether there is anything else that needs to be changed in the law. I point out once again, we're all involved in traffic. Whether or not colleagues will vote for this law will decide for themselves, but the fact is that when they leave this building, all participants in traffic and must be guided by the views imposed by this law, and I think it is much better that we all cooperate and improve the law if the shortcomings exist, because there are representatives of the ministry and will gladly meet them. The MPs of my SPS-JS group will support this law because it is good, modern and protects all of us, traffic participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19164	I thank Mrs. Milosevic. Mr. Zoran Ostojić did not use four more minutes, according to Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19165	Thank you, President. I am pleased that most colleagues from the ruling majority of the remarks I first made yesterday, which Minister Dacic then responded to by stealing those 12 points from the start of the game, supported. Professor Vujanic is not the author of this stupid definition of traffic. But, let's get things straight -- Tuesday's the Traffic Committee, we've submitted 32 amendments, we want to fix this law. Mr. Ilic is the president, so let him invite experts who participated in the 2005 draft law, who was kidnapped by violating the Ministry Act from the then Ministry of Traffic in the Ministry of Police, and then we will clear knowledge and ignorance. I'm asking those of you who are professional and who have finished college not to use the term "stakeholders in traffic" anymore. It's much more professional to use the term "traffic security factors." Like, now thousands of people drive a car, some real offense, most of them don't, and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic didn't drive this morning, he talked and said he wasn't bonding. He's a security factor, not a traffic participant. And he contributed a lot, in a negative sense, to the security of traffic by claiming he wasn't bonding because he was fat. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you really need to understand that your ignorance, that 250 people die annually, and 3,000 people get hurt because it's not tied up, you can't spread, because you're a minister and you're affecting people. You're a security factor, I'm telling you the truth. And Kenan can bond, believe me, and Free Maras can tie up, I can tie up and stay another meter, even that MP who's harder to get around than skip, the one who can eat a pound and a half of meat in a restaurant, and then tells reporters how to cut the logs because the meat is cheap, and he can tie himself up, he belongs to the ruling majority. So, we're going to try on that committee, along with a number of amendments from others, to fix this law. This law is not a compromise between law-making and kidnapped by the police ministry. This is the law of the police, which gives cops too much authority. Here's an example. Everyone's talking, and everyone thinks the driver should miss the walkway, and look what you wrote. This is another example of unprofessional writing. It says, if traffic crossings are not regulated by light traffic signs (no traffic lights) or signs of a police officer, the driver is required to adjust the speed of the vehicle so that in any situation he sees or has reason to predict it can be stopped safely in front of the pedestrian crossing. It means that when my child stands and does not step foot, he has no obligation to let go. He can't hit him until he steps in. But until he's stepped, he can stand at the walkway for hours. You predicted no driver had to stop and let walk. There's a lot of illogicality. Apparently, the monopoly, which the police had over this area since 13 May 1945, tried to maintain. If there is a desire to compromise between these millions of euros that revolve in this business and the public interest that we will adopt on that committee what is reasonable, not that the police get discretionary powers, but that, by the way, they do not allow the law to be controlled, such as. a detection radar, such as A record that becomes court evidence. Please, let's be serious and really do it. (President: Time. ) As for Mr. Mrkonjic, the belt, I believe General Jovanovic would say that many people are being punished for the belt and that it is about an act that has many penalties, but we know that all of us, 98% of those who are punished for the belts...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19166	Please bring the end. Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't applied his right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? You used it, Mr. Shami. You're out of time. (Zoran Shami, from the scene: we have 11 minutes left. It's written that you used it all the time. And I don't think you used it, but the deputy secretary wrote it that way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19167	For starters, just one note. A good education requires me not to comment on the work of the Public Service, because I would earn, quite certainly, the exclusion from this congregation for six months. But please, I'm not going to say what the public service is doing with the Assembly -- it's currently transferring a game of young people. Youths in football are more important than the Assembly, than traffic safety laws or laws that are next on the agenda. So, please talk, but not by drinking coffee with Mr. Tijanic, but by informing the MPs who are interested in coming to that conversation. My ex-student. Unfortunately, I have submitted an amendment to delete the definition of traffic, and this is what Mr Vujanic advised me to do. So that definition is not good, and it's unnecessary in law, because it would actually require a lot more space to be a real definition. Furthermore, everything would be fine (that was just said by my dear colleague) that a law was passed that was still in circulation in 2005. He was at least three times better than this law. Anything that could have broken in that law, respected colleagues, they've ruined it. Including the fact that these types of passports were given in a description of what the interrogator must satisfy, and these were actually the ID cards of some police employees, instead of simply simply simply writing that an expert who is a moderate traffic engineer. As it is necessary for a lawyer to have a law degree. I could be a lawyer, but if I asked for permission, they'd rightly tell me I'm crazy because I don't have a law school. We obviously don't understand each other about the repression. Every law, especially this one, must have the intended criminal measures and have the justification to be rigorous in some situations. Moreover, the DSS has proposed an amendment that further expands what a violent drive is. Apropo violent driving, I'd like to pass a law that would really force the police to deal with traffic prevention. Yes, if necessary, punish those who commit crimes, but not by hiding it in the bush and measuring speed because it's the easiest thing to do, but by example. in downtown Belgrade, prevent violent behavior. I'll tell you what's going on. At the time we wrote the amendments, I left the assembly at midnight. Five guys on motorcycles ran from one 80 km an hour through a red light in front of the Assembly (although, they stopped at London), none of them had a helmet and they tourned the machines. So they've violated at least four members of this law. Every week, we get killed by some motorcyclists going wild around Belgrade. I don't see what the problem is to stop it. So it's not the DSS against punishment. I even said we didn't put any amendments to the criminal provisions. If there are any fundamental changes in the text that will require changes in the sentence, fine. If we see (let's, in the end line, do the lawmaker himself) that some penalties are illogical, and that's fine. We are not against punishment, we are against logic applied in this law. Logic is essentially the retention of the monopoly the police have in the safety of traffic. And it can't do that. That, gentlemen, is not European norms, since you are so much calling for Europe. I don't see any reason to call on Europe, though. We don't live in Antarctica, we live in Europe. And we're not driving cars since yesterday, we've been driving them for a long time. We, of course, suggested (here, to cheer Mr Dacic), 14 jobs that were in his jurisdiction were deleted and transferred to jurisdiction, however, again ministers from the SPS, seven Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Obradovic, so to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Traffic. I don't see any reason for the police to do that. What's the police got to do with auto school? What's the police got to do with giving permission for a technical examination? Is that police work? It is, because it's a monopoly. It is, but it shouldn't be. That's the thing. Maybe it's someone's inherited right, being seen that way. I just said the previous law was three times better than this. He was better than this. You know, I'm going to tell you very often that I'm not an expert, and rarely when I say I know something. I spent 30 years at Traffic College. If I were the dumbest guy in the world, I'd learn something about traffic. Here, this is where my students sit. Among those who wrote that first version, I was two on the doctorate committee, and it was just from the field of traffic security. So, of course, it would be ideal if we could say -- here's an example of a non-political law, a law that we're all interested in, a law that simply touches the very essence of our daily life and something that can't be avoided. But when you carry on with one wrong logic, which may have been valid in 1981 and 1988, but which by the logic of things can't apply today, then, dear friends, let's see if there's anything else we can fix in this extraction, although believe me, you'll have to write a new law very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19168	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19169	I thank you for this debate. I think it is clear to everyone that this area is very important for ordinary citizens, i.e. it is important for both the state and all the potentials that the state has, because it also loses between 1% and 3% of gross national income in traffic accidents according to UN statistics, and it accounts for between 1.56% and 1.71%) of gross national income in Serbia annually. I have already said that since 1991, not counting statistics from Kosovo and Metohija, and only because of Resolution 1244 and the absence of our internal affairs bodies, we are unable to have that statistics from the territory of our autonomous province, 17,000 people have died, and more than 240,000 people have been injured more easily or more seriously. I've already said this law brings a whole series of newspapers. I don't particularly want to talk about it in detail, but some of them you pointed out here, such as the ban on the transport of a person who is unable to manage his actions in the front seat, such as the ban on the use of a mobile phone except for "hands Fri" equipment, the obligation to use a safety belt in all seats, the ban on violent driving, the obligation to transport a child in a safety seat, the obligation to include all direction indicators in cases listed in the law, the reduction of the general speed limit in a populated place from 60 to 50 km. Understanding the difficulties of understanding what a populated place is and what isn't, I just want to point out the statistical data that experts have given, which is that by reducing the speed from 60 km to 50 km per hour, it increases the ability to survive on foot in a collision with a vehicle by 40%. In any case, I think it's a very significant fact, regardless of what might really be another analysis of what the settlements are, so that we don't interpret... Someone here mentioned that practically the entire Ibar highway could be swept under the notion of a populated place. Then, speed limits in special conditions, banning the use of anti-radars, regulating traffic at the intersection, the obligation to turn down lights and daylight, more precisely regulating vehicle traffic with the right of passing championship and use of yellow rotational light, etc. I want to tell you that as Minister of the Interior, I gave the order, and it's done, there's a maximum number of vehicles that have the right to use rotational lights at all. It's about the least possible number of most important state officials. Not all ministers do. They have, as you know, protected personalities. I beg your understanding of both citizens and all MPs. In this business that I do, of course, above all, police and security services, there are a number of norms and rules how the security system works in providing certain individuals and facilities in conditions where there are certain security risks. I apologize to all citizens for certain inconveniences that exist. I think it's also the state's organs that don't inform the citizens in time about what's going to happen these days. I want to say right now, when it comes to this, that we are expected to visit Beyden, Vice President of the United States on Sunday. It is normal and inevitable that it will be the highest possible degree of security, just like when it comes to the presidents of foreign states. Also, that's what our presidents of state authorities have when they visit foreign states. When it comes to domestic government officials, the smallest possible number. Among the individuals being protected, it is known which are the bearers of the most important state functions. Also, it is also true for them that I cannot cause car accidents with my own actions, but I want to say that only because of the need for security will these measures be applied. I've given the order, and I'm really calling for you to inform me if anyone uses rotational lights unauthorizedly. It's only an M.I.P. instruction. It's known when they're used, it's known what they're used for, it's known when police use it, when they use ambulances, firemen, etc. And you know who actually uses rotational lights when they go through certain shares. It's only about persons whose stopping in traffic could cause certain security risks. It's simply protocol rules when foreign statesmen, who exist everywhere in the world. When it comes to the degree of alcohol in the blood, we have reduced that percentage here, but research also shows that with 0.5 alcohol in the body is at risk of a car accident greater than 1.2-1.3 times, and with one alcohol spill in the blood practically five times the risk of that driver who doesn't have any alcohol in the blood. Our limit is 0.3. Of course, it would be ideal if it were completely forbidden to drive under the use of alcohol. I see that many MPs are using certain proposals that were heard in the public debate, which is good, but I must say, there are always different proposals. There were also suggestions that, in our conversations with teachers, we were thinking whether to accept them or not. That's what they're called. Alcohol locks, which are already set up by certain car manufacturers, where you simply can't automatically start a car if you have any alcohol in your blood. However, it would mean that citizens have to install locks in vehicles, which would cause additional costs and I don't know if it would be accepted at all by our citizens. So please, when we talk about this law, we need to know what our goal is. Our goal is not to cause dissatisfaction by the citizens because of the measures laid down in this law, but to reduce the number of accidents and the number of deaths and injuries. I know that every one of us who are drivers is responsible for some of these provisions being different, but it's absolutely irrelevant. I'd also like to say, when it comes to traffic accidents, that last year there were 67,708 car accidents, of which 51,000 with material damage, 16,651 with victims. 23,172 people died, 897 of which died. Of these faces, 36 children are up to 14 years old, and 1,972 children are injured up to 14 years old. Also, 43% of the causes of car accidents in the last year were irregular or unadjusted speeds. I have already said that we are ready to consider different opinions in the discussions on this law. Regardless of the change in government in Serbia, I would like to call on all MPs, MP groups and parties who may have had a different position in the past government to understand that this bill has practically retained at least 90% of all the provisions of the one that appeared in the past period. I want to tell you the truth now, all these people sitting here in front of you were placed at the time of the past government, at the time of Minister Jocic and Minister Velimir Ilic, and they also wrote that law. So when you say this is police law, I ask you to come back for a little bit last year. If your colleague, my esteemed predecessor, Jocic, the Minister of the Interior, I don't think you'd talk about this law like that. On the other hand, the police have no intention of having a monopoly in this area. Change the law on police, introduce another state body to deal with traffic security, but the law on police is in charge of traffic security. Then don't talk about police law. No one can be in charge of this without having any authority in it. Also, I don't know why someone would mind the involvement of police in certain actions such as passing a driving test, when the Traffic Safety Agency will also give licenses to those who will teach and be interrogators. Also, the record from the scene or so on. See is evidence in other court proceedings, and when it comes to criminal acts, so why wouldn't it be that record or report from the scene when it comes to a car accident? As far as the police are concerned, believe me, it's not our idea to form a Traffic Safety Agency. It's a request from the professional public and the professor. So please identify yourself here whether you want an agency or not. As far as we're concerned, since we're yelling, and we're not going to, on this side, the Agency won't be on the burden of the state, because it's going to finance part of these revenues that are made on the basis of traffic violations. It will be a burden on the citizens, but I am telling you that so far, no single dinar has gone to the police budget by citizens who are guilty of traffic violations. The police have no standard of how much it takes to punish someone, because they don't get paid on the basis of how much they've charged the fines. Of course everyone's been looking at the effect of the work, but it has nothing to do with charging the fines. As is the effect of the judge in the work, how many cases he has solved, etc. The body for coordination has been defined in such a way as to include professors, industry, NGOs, chambers of commerce, expert groups that propose, a secretariat that has logistics and ministers from competent ministries, where decisions will be made on all these issues. On the other hand, the Agency is a suggestion that the police are not doing that part of the job, but that it's being done by an independent body, which you've been talking about so far. So this is the accepted proposal, the last few years have discussed it. Why the law wasn't passed before - I don't think that's the question I need to ask. I'm the minister of the 7th of July last year. Anyway, it's been working on this law for a long time. I think it is a great contribution for us to jointly propose this law - the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Interior and the professional public. The teachers were with us at the presentation of this law after the adoption of the government. Professor Vujanić sat with us and talked about this law. He certainly is not satisfied, because not all of his proposals have been accepted, just as perhaps every ministry is not satisfied with whether everything that has been sought has entered, but it is generally good that this bill is before us. This law should apply equally to everyone. And for Mr. Mrkonjic when he doesn't tie his seat belt, because he certainly won't have any privileges, and for anyone else. There are no privileged ones. I have spoken publicly and invited everyone I know not to think of calling me, General Stoydin, at any time, to intervene for traffic offences. Therefore, this law must be applied in such a way, if it is the same for all and if we root out corruption. And corruption can be in different places -- in education, in exams, in technical examinations, of course, and in determining whether or not someone committed a traffic violation. As far as the police are concerned, we have the Internal Affairs Sector, we're working on it, and, as you know, a lot of police officers have been arrested for overruling or misusing their powers and corruption. When it comes to the police intervention unit, they don't deal with traffic control, they do other questions. But, as we're looking for methods to control and operate traffic police, and as far as the police are concerned, in Belgrade, we've already equipped a car with a camera, which we're about to use. So when the intervention unit goes into intervention, there's going to be a recording of what's going on, so there's no different interpretation of what happened on the scene. We'll also be in control of our traffic cops, but this fact that there will be no more charges on the spot is good for just to prevent that kind of corruption. In the end, I want to say that we are ready to discuss the various suggestions that have been heard here. So far, people who are doing this job, sitting here in front of us, have been considering 140 amendments. 30 of these were accepted, and 10 amendments will be proposed not in this text, but as a proposal from the Committee, with an intensity coming from these amendments. In the other hundreds of amendments, I am sure that there will be a few dozen that will be accepted, so I think that certainly a third of these proposed amendments will be accepted by the promoters, which I do not think is the case with any other law that was in the procedure of the National Assembly. In any case, I understand the relations in parliament, and the relations of the authorities and the opposition, and I understand that the position on a law may depend on the political position of a particular political party, but at this point, we aim to get to the better text of the law, we are ready for further talks, and I hope that as many of your constructive, good proposals to improve this law will be accepted and that this law will result in a reduction in the number of car accidents, that the number of killed, injured and injured in traffic accidents in Serbia will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19170	I'm finishing the initial search. We are passing item 2 and 3 of the agenda – I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly has called for this part of the session, next to Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, to be present as well as the assistants of Minister Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic. Vice President Ivica Dacic asks permission from the Assembly if he can go. Thank you. Of course you can. Your work ends with the defense of the bill that was in the procedure. I'd like to ask you not to disturb the order of the Assembly. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the proposal for a general product safety law and a proposal for a law on electronic trade, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia has - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS parliamentary group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda, the parliamentary group will represent: MP Milan Lapčević, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Dejan Radenkovic - MP of the SPS-JS, MP of the Parliament, Aleksandra Jankovic - MP of the NS, MP Vladan Jeremic - MP of the SRS. If more decisions on authorised representatives are delivered during this session, the National Assembly will be informed. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on general product safety and the proposal for a law on electronic trade. Does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, want a word? Yeah. I'm just asking you to press the key once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19171	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an honor and a pleasure to welcome you and to present you with two new laws. These are the product safety law and the e-commerce law. These are two, first of all, professional or craft law, not political law. The laws are clear, precise. The General Product Safety Act has 29 members, a law on electronic trade, even fewer, 23 members. Both laws should improve the quality of life in Serbia, increase the chances for Serbian citizens for new employment and generally contribute to the highest international standards in these two very important areas starting to apply after the law is passed in Serbia as well. I'm going to move to the general product safety law. Practically, general product safety has been guaranteed for decades on the single European market. The area has not been properly regulated in Serbia so far, and the basis for product safety is so-called. RAPEC Rapid Product Safety Information System. What Serbia must first do after the adoption of this law, I hope, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is create its own small RAPEC system of internal notification and thus become part of a single European product safety system. This system will be common to several ministries, from the Ministry of Trade and Services, where the market inspection is already working at the beginning of the establishment of such a system, through the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Ministry of Health and many other institutions that will be involved through their services in the reporting and notification of general product safety. This system is also a legal basis for the application of this law, and I believe that we will soon, and this is the shortest possible deadline, for several months to come, for the full implementation of this system and for the function in Serbia. Otherwise, this law will include provisions, i.e. guidelines, European Community Directives on the general safety of products from 2001 and guidelines, i.e. a directive on misleading products from 1987, so that with these two directives, i.e. instructions, we meet the most European standards in this very important area for the safety of products, the quality of lives of people and the safety of all of us, the consumers of Serbia. These are the main reasons, not only legal, not only harmonisation and harmonisation, but also ensuring a high level of quality of protection for Serbia's citizens' health, but also the need not to happen to us, as happened in previous years, probably this year, that inadequate quality or non-secure products that cannot be sold on the EU market come to Serbia. They were also painted with non-quality colors, harmful to the health of children playing with them, but also food and other products, and car parts. The fundamental intensity of this law and our goal, as a proposing, is to start applying the most European standards in this area in both Serbia and Serbia, and to ban Serbia and Serbia's entire market for such products as well. What this law adopts as a newspaper is also certain definitions and interpretations of certain concepts, such as the term product, which means in this law the final product, which, with a fee or no compensation, is supplied to the final consumer or appears to be available to him, either through purchase, lease, lease and other, including products related to the provision of services and, whether new, used, repaired or revised product. In this way are also covered products used when providing services to the consumer, for example, let's say hair shampoos or hair polish used in hair salons or some preparations used in cosmetic salons. In other words, practically, everything used in our country falls under the influence of this law and I am sure that the safety and quality of the protection of Serbia's citizens' health will be raised to the highest possible level by adopting this law. Also, one new term is impeachment. It's a legal institute that has never been known in our legal system before. It aims to temporarily recover dangerous products from consumers and other users who have already been delivered or made available to them. I suppose you've all had the opportunity to read in the newspaper that some cars, for example, because of some part's malfunction, whether it's a brake system or whether it's a suspicion that it might be something wrong, even in large batches in Europe, are withdrawn from customers or users of these products, in order to perform repairs, check or eliminate irregularities. It is precisely this institute that recalls this law that will enable us as right and all of us as consumers of Serbia, but also manufacturers or bidders, sellers of these products, to again warn unwanted events and for safety, let's say, and the lives of Serbian citizens. This European system, in practice, information on product safety serves to improve co-operation between our institutions and our bodies, inspection and other institutions and parallel European institutions. And what in this brief presentation of this law, since the law itself is short, 29 members, once again, I want to say, it is to invite you to support this law, that through the amendment debate, if you have concrete ideas and suggestions on how to fix it in some segments, you bring it out. Of course, with respect and respect, we will analyse these proposals, and yet we will all do one good thing together for the citizens of Serbia and help them feel safer and safer, as well as for the citizens of the most developed countries in Europe and the world. So much for the general product safety law, and let me also inform you with a few words about the proposal for an e-commerce law. This law has twenty-three members, it should be pointed out that, above all, the aim of this law is to bring an area of electronic trade, one significant business in the world year after year, to Serbia as well. We have never had in our legal practice a law that regulates electronic business, or electronic trade, and simply, the fact that we live in an information society, in which technical and technological progress is in this and in all other areas almost daily, gives us the need to regulate this area by law. As for assumptions for the development of electronic trade, so I would say e-commerce in Serbia, they are being repaired day and day. According to the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, there are about a million and a half computers in our country, over 80% of computer owners use the Internet, and these are indeed significant assumptions that electronic trade in Serbia can develop, and given that the position in electronic trade is several times cheaper than the job in the factory or in another sector of economy or out of business, I think in these crisis and difficult times, and this will be significant for the citizens of Serbia. Practically, one computer, which has over a million and a half in Serbia, a telephone line, where the computer will stand and goodwill is enough for anyone in Serbia to try his happiness in electronic trade. Practically, this law is very liberal. He does not bring restrictions, allows anyone who wants to try it in this business, and the law regulates the rules of electronic trade. A lot of trade has changed compared to the previous few years and the importance of this business and its growth, as I said despite the crisis, here, the adoption of this law will also be a chance for citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, and that's important to know, e-commerce in the world is a business worth every year globally and somewhere up to $100 billion. Serbia is at the very beginning, i.e. I would say we have electronic trade in Serbia, but it is really minor or marginal. All a few serious businessmen deal with e-commerce, but one of the problems that all of us as citizens are facing, when we want to buy the book over, I don't know, E-buy or Amazon.com, or some other product, unfortunately not possible, and all of us who tried it know that and where there's something possible to buy over the network, we pay, practically, by business, when that product comes to us, and not by pay card and not by network. Just plastic and speaking, this law needs these obstacles and the inability to remove and enable all of us not to pay more than it costs, for example, a book – twenty dollars from England or America or Germany, and that, because of the expedition, because of customs, because of any other costs, it may cost double or much more. These are the advantages of this law. I would like to point out once again that these are really trade laws, professional laws, in which there is no policy, no politics, no politics, once again I urge you to contribute first through this discussion, if it is possible for these laws to be improved and improved, and of course, and above all, to support these laws, we all help the citizens of Serbia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19172	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Milan Djokic, president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the People’s MPs who issued an opinion, the National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, want to speak at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19173	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I have issued an opinion at the session of this committee. Reading the proposal for a law on general product safety could give rise to the impression that the authorities in Serbia care to provide a higher level of consumer health and safety protection, which will buy products for final use and other users, which will use the products for their own needs, i.e. to carry out their professional activities. Unfortunately, the real reason for this law is to bring our legislation into line with the European Union. It is a commitment that the Serbian government wants to fulfil, because it lives in the belief that the European Union will accept Serbia into its membership. He does not want to open his eyes to the truth that the European Union does not really want Serbia to join the Union. Thus, when this bill is passed, like many others before it, there will be order and will not be applied. It is the fate of many laws in Serbia, which are reportedly being passed in the interest of citizens. The fact is that this government is not a priority of the interests of citizens, but of its own interests and interests of those extremely successful businessmen, who are among them in Kumsky, family, friends and other ties and who stand behind them with all their resources. If laws were to be passed, a picture of the Serbian market would have to be quite different. Too strong an import lobby made our market literally have everything and everything. The priority in these arrangements is the amount of commission someone will receive, not the characteristics of the product to be imported. If the amount of commission is appropriate, whether or not the product is safe, it is less important. In conditions where the world has hit an economic crisis for Serbian citizens, it is nothing new, as in such conditions Serbian citizens live years ago. When you don't have the money to buy the product you want, you'll buy a similar product for which you have the money, whether or not it suits you, its quality and its other characteristics, but you need it, for the better, you don't have the money and then you buy it so you don't lose anything. Using these difficult long-term conditions of life for Serbian citizens, the powerful ensure the penetration of all kinds of products on our market. What upset many in the past few years, first in late 2007 and then in early 2008, which the minister also spoke of, is the presence of dangerous children's toys on our market. The parents considered it sufficient that the toys were marked with a si-label on the safety guarantee declaration. Turns out that's not true. This marking should guarantee that the toy meets the minimum safety requirements of the product. The problem is that this label is not assigned by an official organisation, but is being made by the manufacturer himself, to indicate that the product is made in accordance with the applicable directives. In this way, the manufacturer ensured the smooth movement of the product on the market. Many children's toys on our market bear a si-i Sø mark, but do not have the other necessary information about the manufacturer, origin, chemical composition, handling and others, which are necessary to know that the toy is safe to use. There was a belief among our customers that dangerous toys were the only ones in Chinese stores. However, products similar to those withdrawn from the EU market due to toxicity were found in us and in renowned toy shops, as well as in large distributors and all of them had a si-i-i-a mark on them. It is worth the attention that all toys are dangerous for children's health found in five Chinese shops in Zajecar and Bor, for which the Public Health Institute has found that, according to the rules in force, they cannot be found in free sale, they have a solution to the border inspection of regularity. These toys passed customs control, received a certificate of regularity and were available to children. The result of the correctness control shows the maximum number of objections to organoleptic properties, appearance and smell, but some have also found traces of chromium and lead in the colors of rubber bath toys, rodents, rattles or car toys. Some other chemicals, such as phthalate (DEHP), are found in shades, lipsticks, and puzzles.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19174	Five minutes. The time available for exposure to an individual opinion has been used. Thank you. Does the word National MP Momir Markovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to this subject, I'm just going to remind myself of some events in the recent past. Namely, the Committee on European Integration and Delegations were recently in Brussels, where all participants from the interior minister were informed that only Serbia had met all the conditions required of us for the white Schengen list. As we can see in the paper today, from the white Schengen list we haven't had much time yet. The product safety law is just one of these European laws and one of the preconditions, as the Europeans tell us, in order to eventually join the EU. On the other hand, thanks to the government since 5 October, and in particular from the decision to unilaterally apply the SAA, i.e. the Trade Agreement, part of the SAA, Serbia has become an eldorado for products banned in the EU. I don't want to remind you that you're going to find "milk" and "milk" chocolate in stores now, and their prices are the same, except this is a falsified product, and "milk" is possibly the product of a manufacturer in Switzerland. However, there are also products for the EU and products for Serbia - the third world, or for a market outside the EU. Let me remind you that, let's say, you cannot find a Kranjska sausage in the EU, but you will find it in Serbia, because Slovenia has found a market right in Serbia. You can't find it because of the composition from which it was made, the larger amount of fat, water, etc. What's much more dangerous, it produces health hazards are on our market and no one has done anything to stop it until now, if it doesn't. I remind you, when we passed laws on product quality testing laboratories, that then laboratories that worked for decades and were very successful in protecting consumers were closed, and they got permission from the lab, before they got permission, and only then buy equipment and open laboratories. Today, consumers in Serbia are absolutely unprotected. To remind you of genetically modified products that are banned in the EU, banned everywhere in the world, but the company "Monsanto" via one vice president of a ruling coalition, and the lady is called Ivana Dulic-Markovic, and how she exports these genetically modified products. Let me remind you that raspberries producers in all of Western Serbia have purchased seedlings genetically modified, even infected, and today for seven years they can't produce anything on that land. Let me remind you that both drugs of dubious quality and suspicious duration are on our market. It even went so far as to buy new boxes, to repack the medicine, and then to the box one date of duration, and on the medicine, if you find it, it's the date that's already expired. Not to remind you that falsified packagings are for counterfeit products, in Bulgaria you can buy for any product, so you will buy the powder "ariel" at the price that is in Europe, and you will get the powder that will ruin your machine. This law should, at least in its reasoning, say: "The main reason for the adoption of this law is to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of manufacturers who use the products, as well as other users who use the products for their own needs, i.e. in carrying out their professional activities". Ladies and gentlemen, I ask who has since 2000 allowed dangerous health products, life-threatening products, even found on our market? You were in power, in any aggregate state, in any package, but mostly you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19176	National MP, the time of five minutes at your disposal has been used. Thank you. Does the MP Radica Jocic, who expressed her opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want to discuss the proposal for a law on electronic trade? No, I don't. ) Does the People's MP Sladjan Mijaljević, who gave an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want to discuss the proposal for a law on electronic trade? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19177	Given the developments, I wanted, Vice-President, to ask you to allow me to best sing my discussion, as the relationship to parliament is such that the laws that are of great importance are viewed and can be watched after "Eurovision". Is it okay to, say, sing the e-commerce law? Would it be good? Let's see and secure a musical escort. This is really becoming a disqualification of parliament. It is very serious laws, and I'm surprised that Minister Milosavljevic also agreed to participate in such a concise session. So it's not about laws that are irrelevant to Serbian citizens. Since colleagues from the SRS have mostly talked about general product safety, I will not sing, but I will talk about the e-commerce law because New Serbia is a serious party. As a party that not only offers a European future to Serbia, but constantly reminds us that our country has always been in Europe as a cradle of European civilization in general and a cradle of many universal values, we welcome every law that will contribute to restoring our own dignity, as a civilized, educated and intelligent people, in a country that will soon, after new elections, lead again people who have even started European integration, have brought huge investments from the world, acting domestically, democratically and responsibly to citizens, but also to the institutions of the state that are to overcome each of the current politicians. I mean Minister Velimir Ilic and the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. So it's a good thing we finally get the e-commerce law, even though we're lagging behind countries in the environment again. This law was passed by Slovenia in 1990, Croatia 2003, and Montenegro in 2004. The additional disadvantage is that the legislators could use this poor passing time in a much better way until for the mere copying of the laws in question. The comparative approach, i.e. the comparison of the laws of those countries in the environment, speaks in favor of the stated thesis that, due to the delay in time, the proposer literally prescribed legal solutions to show me that we too have a horse for the race. It's a shame that no truly envious knowledge of our experts has been exploited, which on some better team could also make a better bill. MPs of the ruling party underlining "yellow" act as repeaters in the assembly. They repeat fraud and direct card manipulation, in principle from Bodrum to the basement, and when they are caught by the projection mechanism, they find the culprits in those who caught them and revealed the repeated thief. Lawmakers are not repeaters at all. They are often just full copyists and translators of other people's words, so that at all costs the EU can be added to, and without considering the specificities of our country in this area, what are the needs of users or comments of the politically uncolored professional public. There are round tables here on this subject, but either there wasn't enough hearing or enough time for real experts to get their comments into this legal solution. If you're copying so much and saying parrotically, everything that various European commissioners, adjutants, ambassadors, and even the heads of diplomatic protocols impose on you, it wouldn't be bad if you adopted a slogan famous in the field of environmental science, and applied to all aspects of life - think globally, act locally. If your only fault was cheating on you, which was normally punished in decent schools by reproof, then disfellowshipping, it wouldn't be so terrible. It's scarier that you've completely lost contact with reality, which you don't care about because 95% of Serbia lives on the edge of existence, which can't pay off the loans that you've so warmly recommended to them, so they're left without a car that they've taken to lick, because they don't have money for further wars, some of them without real estate, because they've hung themselves a noose of mortgage loans, trusting your lies, empowering the Serbian economy, the 1,000-euro actions, a fairy tale of "puntu'," which replaced reality about a legitimate rebellion of fraud, disfigured, robbed, robbed. You haven't noticed the Kraguje strikers hunger for a good 17 days, but that's why a city celebration took place at 200 metres away, where the sound of "sarm has reached, come on, guys, push". A comment of this almost surreal situation I heard on the news from the BBC. Is it possible that you have lost so much feeling for your loved ones, for your people, that you will do everything to further degrade us in front of the world, as people without elementary compassion, solidarity, feelings of any commonity? What do you care if the workers of the RC Belgrade strike months in front of the Serbian presidency building, and when it turns out that the beautiful Bora does not see them as her sweet sin, and they dare to block the city's traffic at the government, accuse them of harassing their fellow citizens. You are constantly dividing Serbia, and you are hoarding one part of the people on the other side, and all in principle – argue and rule, believing that you will avoid the righteous wrath of the people you look down on from the dark cars. Aman people, of course it's important to have the e-commerce law, and it's also important to look into the eyes of people who have worked in large commercial companies, who have gone bankrupt and tandaria, and now it's best to withdraw themselves to an elephant cemetery. Do you know you have a new strike in Kragujevac? Whether you strikers, now as strikers, bring waiters with a charm or on a menu and some finger or other part of the body. They say your media, the one who ate his finger was crazy anyway, and it's all still mounted. Great. Instead of realizing what's going on here as a serious reminder that we're all really going to go crazy here with your haughtiness, you're still not responding to anything. It's important that your children, your godfathers, your friends and your tycoon recommendations and the other VIP types are fed up and the people starve when you've already declared him crazy. So, at the very beginning, I said that we as a party that, having the national interest of citizens constantly in mind, cannot be against modern technologies, electronic records, the Internet, methodologies that the world has already made for a global village. Since there is a huge media blockade in Serbia, which, based on experience in political life, did not exist at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, and most of all reminds of 'unbroken' times, not only young people, but also many middle and older generations turn to the Internet, they do research work, 'goggle', as they would popularly say, learn all sorts of things, participate in forums and polemics, where there is no Chanka, who reintroduces the famous communist verbal delicacy and interrupts the court on behalf of the people. Because of all these people who often don't even own personal computers, but get on the network where and how they get, from Internet cafes, through friendly and family devices, to cell phones, which can sometimes use wireless some institutions, you really need to edit this area. The e-commerce law is so important, but the promoter should first and foremost take into account a more comprehensive solution in the light of the e-commerce law, as only so would all forms of using information and communication technologies in the field of business be covered. The concept of business is far broader and more comprehensive than the concept of trade, which requires a wider and more comprehensive solution to the business in the electronic environment, given the specificities that the Internet and electronic communications possess. The Internet gets some new forms every day, with 90% of Internet communication having an economic character and not necessarily about trade in a narrow sense. The word is business, which, for example, is business. means exchange, advertising and sales of advertising space that depends on the visitation of a site. On several examples, I will show why this proposal for an e-commerce law is not wide enough to cover all types of electronic business. For example, there's something called illegal use of keywords. What's this about? When you go to a Google search engine, you are looking for a certain term by typing keywords, data on the content of a web page adapted to search engines that are most famous, Google, Yahoo, Altavists are the same, although invisible users, are very important, because with them they determine content and create so-called. "search" lists. The position on Internet browsers will be ranked according to the given search criteria, i.e. keywords. Meta tags don't have to correspond to the actual content of pages. Search engines have more criteria to search for keywords. A lower level implies that keywords appear only within web presentations, and a higher level, the browser owner, requires the form to be placed on the list and lists keywords. However, it may request advice from search engines that the key word to use to make it easier for end-users, which actually means buying keywords. It's not trade in narrow terms, it's buying something that's inexplicable, but it's actually electronic business. This means that software is configured so that some websites have an advantage, even when they do not fully fit the thematic sense. The owners of the stamps suffer because of this practice, because potential clients, instead of their websites, go to another person's site that bought their brand as a keyword. This is also about unfair competition, because creating a possibility of confusion almost does not exist, and just typing a stamp into a search engine is not a brand injury. The next phenomenon that exists is again not covered by this proposal for a law on electronic trade, is the illegal use of meta tags. These are these software parameters for HTML, or code for web pages. The meta tags contain different data on the HTML document, which should also contain basic data on the content of the web site, for example the author, keywords, description of the document. Meta tags don't have to correspond to actual page content. In the form of meta tags, individual authors state the name of a business competitor in order to attract his clientele. The legal problem arises when someone is knowingly using specifics that do not correspond with the site or are directly related to their business competitor's website to attract a clientele to their website. The danger of unfair use, even abuse of other people's reputation and business renaissance, is obvious again. The third occurrence which is not treated with the current draft law is an illicit linkage. The link represents, i.e. a link between two different files or different parts of the same file, or any information in electronic format. It is a common practice of connecting, linking websites, without explicit approval of the owner of the connected stranger, due to mutual benefit. However, some forms of links have once again the character of unfair competition, which is prohibited by Article 22. The law of trade. Deep linkage exists when the link from one site does not lead to a page title of another site, but directly to a particular web page inside it, making the title simply skip. Furthermore, this now sounds rather complicated, but I'll explain in the end, it's about possible abuses. Freiming is a technology that enables the visual division of monitors into several different parts of the so-called. Freims of the English word frame, which means frame. Although there are no sharp differences between what I was talking about, deep linkage and freeming, the difference is seen in the fact that freemming does not make a change in the URL address, so users can't even notice that they are actually looking at the content that is set on another site. The website owner practically integrates the content of someone else's website into its frame, i.e. the frame on its website. What does that mean? In other words, the view through the frame is like if you made a window into the neighbor's apartment and looked out of your apartment in his room. So the website visitor stays on the original page looking through the frame content of the second site. The biggest problems, as well as deep-linking, relate to the loss of advertising fees. In Serbian terms, advertising on the Internet and electronic communications is not just a form of marketing. For many participants, it is an exclusive source of income and all the activities they perform are the greatest visits to their websites. Namely, if the sale of advertising space on television, for example, depends on ratings, the sale of electronic advertising space depends on the visitation of the site. It is known that commercial television, in an effort to provide as much ratings as possible, pays for the rights of transmission of various sports events, designing shows and such, and in return expect revenues from advertising. The more television watching the commercial, the more expensive it is. That's how Internet advertising works. It is therefore also necessary to sanction these phenomena by law, and most naturally they would be sanctioned under one of the most comprehensive e-commerce laws. Another important reason for the claim of the lack of e-commerce law is the fact that our criminal law provides for seven criminal acts that have a common object to the protection of the security of accounting data, i.e. information systems in general and trust in the truthfulness of this data. First, damage to computer data and programs, second, computer sabotage, third, creating and importing computer viruses, fourth, computer fraud, fifth, unauthorized access to a computer or computer network, sixth, preventing and restricting access to the public computer network and seventh, unauthorized use of computers and computer networks. As some conclusion, it is obvious that this copying speed school has led to the fact that it is not really a serious and comprehensive law that would treat the phenomenon of electronic operations in general. Instead, we, through the will of the ruling majority, who can vote with the presence of a spirit in the form of cards, and by the absence of the body in a place more beautiful and dynamic than the Assembly, will pass this law on electronic trade. It's hard for us to respect the famous observation that everything can be complemented, further elaborated by sublegal acts, because the laws need to be passed publicly. If there is no will for it, we declare a democracy, we abolish the Assembly, we clone a person in the role of Serbian President, so that he will finally be "one man gang". Just don't convince us that it's better than nothing, and it's you who chose the song "What No One Can Do, You" for the election campaign for Broz's best political student.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19178	Authorised representatives or presidents who signed up were MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Milan Lapcevic and Vladan Jeremic, so the word has a folk MP, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19179	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, I will speak of these two laws that are now before us, and in the beginning I will take the word by law on general product safety. The adoption of a general product safety law – which incorporates provisions, instructions into the domestic legal system, i.e. Directives of the European Community on general product safety and guidance, Directives on misleading products dating back to 1987 – is one of the important elements of meeting this obligation. It is not only the reason for the adoption of this law because of European rights, but this law sets out a high level of protection of the health and safety of consumers who use the products, as well as other users who use the products for their own purposes, i.e. in carrying out their activities. A large number of dangerous products are available to us and come from an environment for only one reason, because there is a system of protection and these products can only be sold in countries like ours and which do not have such or similar regulations. The law that is before us will undoubtedly raise the quality of life of citizens in our country and the general safety of consumers, which is largely at risk. Without a doubt, this bill regulates this area by raising the level of product safety high and is of general benefit to our country, i.e. for the health of our citizens. The general safety of products on the European market has been guaranteed for several decades by the European Union's most rigorous regulations, through which high levels of health and consumer safety are ensured. Part of this complex mechanism is RAPEX, which also mentioned the minister's rapid exchange of information on dangerous products. To successfully engage in this system, Serbia must first develop its internal information system, which will benefit all state authorities in charge of product safety. This bill, among other things, is also a legal basis for the introduction of such a system. This law will ensure the placing on Serbia's market of exclusively safe products and will prevent the production, import and placing on the market of misleading products, but also their exports. Since there is currently no legal framework in our country for guaranteeing all these general security products and those not subject to technical and other rules establishing essential, i.e. essential product safety requirements. Currently, there are no rules containing explicit and clear provisions on the obligations of manufacturers and distributors on the market. They place exclusively safe products, from the point of view of all known risks that the product could pose in terms of the degree of scientific, technological and technical development achieved. Most of the technical regulations that currently regulate product safety in our country were passed many years ago. They have thus become obsolete from the point of view of these new risks due to new technological achievements and developments that were not then known in the past until their adoption. Namely, this law will apply to all products, provided that their safety is not regulated by a special regulation, but also in a situation where the specific regulations do not contain all the provisions of this law on the obligations of manufacturers and distributors, and informing the public and exchange of information, as well as their supervision. The law will apply to products, regardless of how consumers are delivered and made available, with or without compensation, including distance sales, which means electronic trade, which I will talk about a little later. The guarantee of a high degree of protection of the health and safety of consumers and of our citizens can only be achieved through strong action, i.e. the adoption of a general product safety law, as well as a large number of technical regulations, which is the principle of regulating this area in the EU, i.e. in its Member States. In earlier discussions, it was stated that this law contains numerous news. I will just mention some of them and their needs that have some different meanings, which is that the product implies a final product, which, with or without compensation, is delivered to the final consumer or appears to be available to him. The product includes products supplied or made available to other users using these products for their own purposes, i.e. to carry out their professional activities. Revocation is a new legal institute that applies this law and would now be unknown to our legal system. It aims at temporary vomiting of a dangerous product. It can be applied to any dangerous product on the market. An example is the situation when an inspection finds a product that is dangerous, it pulls it from the market, and it has a obligation to recall products already sold, dangerous products, where sellers are obliged to return money to customers. The essence of this law is also a system of rapid exchanges of information, as a system of rapid notification and alerting is already mentioned between competent and other authorities in the organisation of Serbia on measures and activities taken in relation to health risks. In other words, this is an internal RAPEX that will at some point be integrated into the European RAPEX and should be noted that RAPEX membership is possible even before full membership in the EU, which allows Serbia to seek to exploit these potentials, as far as the system is concerned. According to the bill, Serbia should also receive a national reference laboratory for food safety control, established by the government and which would be the main institution to check the findings of authorised accredited laboratories. It is also proposed to set up a expert advice on food risk assessment in the area and safety, which would benefit from recommendations, guidelines and information from the European Food Safety Authority. What I would like to say in the end about this law, and at the same time I would ask the minister, if possible, to focus on Article 29, which speaks of when the law enters into force. It is my opinion and opinion of members of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, if at all possible, to try to shorten the time limit for the application of this law, which is stated here to be applied in six months. I think it might take some time, maybe we should pull ourselves together a little bit and, if it's technically possible, get these regulations in as short a time as possible. I wish it were real as short as possible, not to leave that empty space, because it's not good when we find text with headlines in the press – lobbyists stop the adoption of food safety laws. In order not to be able to fill our market with such dangerous products with this deadline of six months, since the law begins to apply. Maybe some of the dumping prices will bring that to our customers. In the second part of my presentation, I'll talk about the e-commerce law. The e-commerce law regulates legal certainty for participants in the transport of goods and services via the Internet and other information networks. For the first time, the law includes an area of electronic trade in our legal system and regulates the provision of electronic traffic. The rapid changes that occurred in our information society, and the very needs of our social processes, which are linked to the exchange of information and communication technologies, have left far behind all business and commercial processes in our country. The development of technical solutions, which have enabled our society to communicate quickly and reliablely interactively with mass, created conditions for increasing the number of bidders and customers. The proposal for an e-commerce law regulates the area of business legally, and Serbia is blocked by our environment in the regulation of this area, but there is also great progress and potential in technical and humane terms, so it is expected to accelerate the progress of the electronic form of business, as well as the inclusion in the world trade via the Internet. The creation of technical means of communication via the Internet has led to the emergence of a market with a market economy principle where goods and services can be carried out. There are many forms of electronic trading in our country, only that the ordered goods are paid online by companies because there is no possibility and security of payments via the Internet and the provision of distribution of the goods mentioned. Although our country has made huge progress in the development of electronic trade, the main obstacle was that this area was left without legal regulation. The subject matter of this bill is restricted exclusively to areas which are not regulated by other laws and further regulates some of the specificities that arise and take place in the electronic trade process itself. It should be noted that the other regulations and standards in the field of information society and inescapable bonding rights appear in the electronic trade. The services which are subject to this law are exclusively commercial and relate to the exchange of electronic data provided exclusively by electronic means and remotely. This is given at the request of the service user, and that a certain fee is provided for. In accordance with the principles of the free market, any entity registered for economic activity shall have the right and the possibility to carry out its activities through electronic trade. No special permits, no licences, no other administrative burdens are required and there are no obstacles for a particular economic operator to start dealing with electronic trade. Of course, these legal solutions all companies, as well as all companies registered under our regulations and established in Serbia, have the right to provide services in the field of information society, and include the application of tax, external trade, accounting and all other regulations, depending on which activity is carried out by the business operator. The most important thing in this bill, I must say, is that contract in electronic form. The contract in electronic form represents certain legal certainty in electronic trade. Electronic communication involves the absence of another person’s physical presence, i.e. the other parties to the communication, such as the practice of electronic data transmission, are already being carried out remotely. It was therefore necessary to specifically regulate the way in which the contract was concluded in electronic form. In this respect, the law specifically regulates that a declaration of supply request and acceptance of the offer is made in electronic form, i.e. by electronic means. The legal certainty is ensured because there is no possibility of contesting the fullness of the contract for the reason that the contract was created in electronic form. Legal protection in this electronic form is that the provider is offered by electronic means, as the seller or service provider, on the one hand, as well as the acceptor of that offer, i.e. The customer, the customer of the service, on the other hand, provides certain guarantees. In order for an electronic contract to be effective, the service provider, without delay, shall confirm by means of a special e-mail the reception of the offer by the users, as if specifically provided that the electronic message has been signed, with a valid electronic signature. This is all in accordance with the law and regulations governing the electronic signature. This ensures the protection of the interests of all participants in electronic trade, i.e. preventing abuse in the conclusion of the contract, as well as the creation of obligations without the full consent of one or the other party. The responsibility of the participants in electronic trade falls within the competence of civil law which defines the responsibility of the public. The e-commerce law regulates all relevant issues in this area, with regulations already in place, and these are the NBS rules regarding electronic payment services, as well as the Electronic Signature Act. As for the SPS-JS parliamentary group, we will make a positive statement on both of these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19180	The speech is attended by MP Milan Lapcevic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19181	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those who watch, and probably very few, it's probably about 2:00 in the morning now, I want a good morning. Since at that time I'm likely to arrive home after the session, I'm going to have to wake my wife up in order to provide the public with the work, because that's the only way that someone is really following this transmission at the time, because as a participant in the debate, I don't get involved in the public. As for the law on electronic trade and general product safety, it would be logical for Minister Milosavljevic to attend this session and the Minister for Telecommunications and Information Society, as it is a law that practically ensures the coordination of these two ministries. In addition to the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Information Technology and Telecommunications must provide infrastructure for the implementation of this law, so it was necessary for Minister Matic to be present here today, because the discussions will certainly bring about objections concerning her ministry. For the past ten years, the development of information technologies has conditioned a change in the structures and modes of operation in this area, in the area of trade, so that today electronic trade is used in many developed countries as the most popular type of purchase, as well as data on the growth of trade in countries that have the most developed information technologies. For the last two years, that growth has been over 40%. So, the 2006 data suggests that around 627 million Internet users worldwide used this type of trade to buy their products and services, and that last year the number increased to an entire 875 million or, as the minister said, over $100 billion. The highest percentage of users of e-commerce services is found in countries where electronic information infrastructure is the most developed in South Korea, over 90% of people using information technologies that use the Internet, and they used electronic shopping, in the United States it is 94%, in Germany, in Japan and in the UK it is over 97%. When it comes to the frequency of using e-commerce as a way to buy, over one half of the total population using the Internet used this way last month to buy their products and services. Most buy books, clothes, shoes, videos, airplanes and other maps and electronic devices. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is, of course, necessary for Serbia to pass such a law that would regulate such an area, although we are late, as in many other areas, for developed countries, but unfortunately we are also late for countries in the environment. As we heard, Croatia, BiH and Montenegro passed this law several years ago. I fear that the solutions, as the minister said, in this short law with a small number of members, are not well worked out enough and that because of the indeterminateness, but also because of the lack of sublegal acts and the failure of the electronic signature, as one of the conditions for the implementation of this law, it will be a practical obstacle for this law to be implemented and that as such, it will be a dead letter on paper. In Article 8 of the Law, only two sentences mention unwanted e-mails or so on. "spam" and does not discuss in which way, with which infrastructure and which body can prosecute members of the law that says that an offer can only be offered to anyone who wants to receive such an offer, i.e. that such offers cannot otherwise be sanctioned and that there is no clearly developed mechanism to control who sends "spam" and how they will be punished. It is also unclear how Article 15 of the Treaty will be interpreted. It is clear that there is no mechanism to determine the accuracy of the time of the conclusion of the contract, because between the users, i.e. those who sell and those who buy, computers with the time of sending, i.e. the receipt of a certain message and the conclusion of the contract, so that there is no, and there should be, a certain body which would be arbitrarily in this respect, that in the event of any disputes there is no abuse of the time of the conclusion of the contract. The bill also mentions an electronic certificate as a presumption of the fullness of the contract when a person is required to sign. It was necessary for Minister Matic to be present today, to tell us how many of these certificates, when it comes to the e-signature law, have been issued so far in Serbia. In fact, you remember, last year with the media, with a big pomp, the promotion of the e-signature bill. He received the prime minister, some ministers also received, but the question of how many Serbian citizens have ever received this certificate for electronic signature, since it is probably unknown to the general public that only one institution for the issue of these certificates has been designated to obtain such an electronic signature certificate and that it, as an intermediary, buys elaborated technology from one side of the company and sells it to Serbian citizens for a figure that is approximately 100 euros per certificate. If it is considered to be an extremely high sum, and we want to implement both the electronic government project and the electronic signature to live in daily communication, it is quite clear why the number of people and institutions certified for electronic signature is very small, so the e-signature law is practically not working today, and I am afraid that this law will also be put in place as an ad act. It was also necessary to harmonise the law on archiving with this proposed law, because when it comes to contracts concluded by trading entities, it is not said in any way how the storage or archiving of these electronic contracts will be done, because the archiving law provides that only those acts which are in the prescribed form or in the written form or certified copy of the contract are to be archived, therefore there is no speech on electronic archiving. Finally, one major illogicality that the supervision of the application of this law will be carried out by one part of the ministry responsible for trade affairs, and the other part by the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, through its postal service inspectors and through the Telecommunications and Information Inspectors. There's a post office inspectorate. In it, according to the new regulation, lawyers or people from the traffic profession of the postal direction can work, so no one who is in any way referred to such a problem, how they will control it. On the other hand, it should be done by investigators for telecommunications and information that do not exist. So the new Telecommunications Control Act in this area is being carried out by the Telecommunications Agency, but not by the inspection. Today, there are no inspectors for telecommunications and information society at the Ministry of Telecommunications. So no one controls and controls law enforcement and regional communications, and of course in this area. Absurdane is an example that people who worked at the Ministry, who were detected in various districts, are today assigned to work at the Ministry as advisers or officials, and have to travel daily to Belgrade or find an apartment here and do virtually nothing, and receive a salary for it, while no one is doing the surveillance work, and it would be very good to hear Minister Matic in which way he will solve this problem. As far as the general product safety law is concerned, this law is necessary since we have heard and that the public is aware that over the past years there have been dozens of cases, major problems with primarily imported products, which no one has controlled or guaranteed the safety of their use, nor has anyone been responsible for the unsolicited quality. When this law is concerned, of course, that this law, as before, is a product of harmonising our legislation with EU directives, which is nothing controversial, but it seems to me that this law, as before, is mostly simply prescribed law and that in an inadequate way, it processes certain mechanisms, primarily product control. There are countless examples of suspicious products on the market in the previous decade, especially in the years of isolation and wars, but unfortunately there are such examples and today-to-day, so there are well-known cases of toys, bows, hair color, as mentioned by previous speakers, but also electronic devices, and particularly used goods coming from abroad, for which no one asks for appropriate certification or control of the safety and quality of certain products, so there is no statistics on any damage and what types they have produced using, and without adequate control. The supervision of this law will be carried out by the competent ministries in different areas and the problem of import products will again arise, as it is said that the competent customs authority will not allow the import of products on the basis of a series of products which does not follow the prescribed documentation of compliance with the requirements, i.e. import product if it comes outside EU countries, for example some countries from the Middle East, and if they do not have the appropriate standards that are in line with our standards or with EU standards, it will be enough for them to only have documentation that monitors the product in their country and they will be accepted here as such, without any ex post controls. However, the following article says that if the competent customs authority finds that, regardless of the existence of the documentation and markings, the product raises reasonable doubt, it may carry out a verification or inform the competent inspection authority about it, it shall simply not speak in which way and who will control those products. So there is no specific institution that is authorized to control the safety of these products. We have submitted to these laws a number of amendments that correct the important text of the law and elaborate until the end of the mechanisms that are unclear and in accordance with this will, of course, give us additional reasons why these amendments should be adopted, because of course they would improve the essence of the law. I expect these amendments to be accepted and we will act accordingly when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19182	The word is issued by MP Vladan Jeremic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19183	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, here in the assembly debate are two specific laws, which are somehow reunited, although they are incompatible, and the one I would like to say more about in this first address, a law which, as the minister said, is not politics, but a law that, if it were to live in practice, which I doubt, could at some point represent even one of the ways in which the fallen nature could be launched. The problem is that the e-commerce law has waited for a full six years to see light days, although some estimates say that the electronic trade market in Serbia is worth about 30m euros at a monthly level. It is obvious that the problem is the fact that electronic trade is indeed on the verge of development in Serbia, and that, in the SRS' view, there is a strategic approach to the regulation of this area, which would cover, above all, the law on electronic business and the law on electronic signature, which, truth be told, exists but is, as feared at first, one of the many laws that absolutely does not experience the possibility of living in practice. When we talk about the future of comprehensive electronic business in Serbia, I think it would be good to start with a little bit of an analysis of the situation in which it is currently located. What is evident is that in the use of e-business benefits, where financial institutions, or banks, have gone the farthest. Yet one of the most important factors for generally taking a bad situation in this area is an insufficient number of computers, despite a decrease in VAT to about 8%, yet they are still unreachable by a wider layer of the population. The second factor is a small number of users with fast internet connections. The reasons for this are numerous, but the one that stands out is the existence of a monopolist who dictates both prices and quality. In order for electronic operations to start developing in one country, it is necessary to do a lot of things, above all, to introduce electronic public services, such as electronic administration, electronic health, electronic learning, as well as an environment that will enable electronic business to develop. Of course, in order for all of this to be possible, there needs to be one secure information infrastructure and opportunities to use and fast internet at competitive prices. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the future of development of overall electronic business in Serbia will depend heavily on the pace of development of electronic trade. The direction in which this area will develop is the development of public electronic services that should enable easier and more efficient business, the development of electronic trade and the increase in the use of technologies that help in electronic business and trade, and ultimately the development of electronic services, both commercial and non-commercial. Electronic trade, examples in the world show, is one of the most popular and represented types of electronic business. This type of electronic business in Serbia does not benefit from a wider circle of people. The reasons for this situation are more than clear. This is a lack of valid credit cards and payment funds. ‘Pay pal’ e.g. It is still not possible to use it from Serbia. What I mentioned earlier is a lack of fast internet access, as well as a lack of trust in Internet transactions and a lack of electronic signature. Because we said, and colleagues earlier, that Serbia is the last state in Europe to pass the Law on electronic signature and that was not enough notice, but rather a state that does not yet implement the same law in practice. The data available by the SRS parliamentary group regarding the EU countries, which are also in this legislation and in many other pandemics and some kind of government work guidelines, which we believe is absolutely not good, is that even over 60% of the trade is done electronically. The application of electronic signature and e-business changes one business environment and creates conditions that all jobs are done differently and, above all, faster, more efficiently and economically. We're legally accepted by the so-called so-called. a qualified electronic signature guaranteeing the identity of the signatories, the authenticity of the electronic document and preventing subsequent denial of responsibility for their content. Electronic trade, which is the subject of this bill today in the assembly procedure, primarily consists of distribution, purchase, sale, marketing and service of products and services through an electronic system, such as the Internet and other computer networks. It is also very important that it is involved in electronic money transfer, supply chain management, electronic marketing and electronic data exchange and automatic data collection systems. Two very important researches have been published recently. One is the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and another research has been published by E-Target, which refers to Internet use for electronic trade purposes. These indicators, i.e. what is more important for a wider public, show that only 35.6% of people use the internet in Serbia, 7% of them buy online, of which 6.3% have ordered goods or services in the last three months. Transport of 137m euros from e-commerce was recorded in Serbia earlier last year, and a projection of the volume of electronic trade for 2010, the next calendar year, even 346m euros. Of course, these are all assumptions, given that the proposed legal solutions, such as this which we are talking about today, often do not experience that fate to be represented in practice. This data that we have presented is actually very indicative, because if it is likely to think about that B2B and B2C sector together, where in Serbia 46% of Internet users are already buying cards, and 57% are ordering business, by including the percentage of purchases by e-banking system used by 10% of Internet users, indicators are the potential of electronic trade. I think it is a very important role for the media to promote such information in a high-quality way, in order to intensify the development of online business in Serbia. Now data from E-Marketer, companies that are otherwise involved in e-market research, shows that in America 65% of the total so-called "E-market". B2B trade, or trade between companies, takes place electronically. In the EU, 50% of trade is done electronically, while in Serbia less than 1% of the trade between companies is done that way. The shifts made in the previous decade are almost ephemeral and come down to individual examples, whose knowledge, inventivity and enthusiasm do not have a major impact on the general picture. On the current home web addresses for electronic commerce, you can order exclusively food products, ready meals from restaurants, airline tickets, computer and other technical equipment, products of the publishing music industry, various tickets, jewelry and insurance policies. Unfortunately, the volume of traffic done in the web shops is so low that most of it is an alternative form of trade and business. The reasons for the increasing involvement of electronic trade in total trade in the world lie with several key advantages that provide market expansion for sellers, with lower costs and faster turnover of capital, and the possibility for customers to gain far greater insight into the market supply and price developments for the products they are interested in without great physical effort. Only the slow use of these advantages in Serbia is the consequence, according to the domestic expert and electronic trading actors, and in which we are fully agreed in the SRS parliamentary group, of the unfavourable circumstances depicted in Serbia's economic and information lagging behind. On the one hand, a large number of managers continue to show no interest in the introduction of electronic trade in their business practice and, on the other hand, the existing offer uses a symbolic number of customers. The expansion of the number of users is limited by the level of citizens' standards and their payload power, starting with a key precondition, which is the possibility of obtaining computers and using the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said at the outset, for six years, the e-commerce law was in the works, while some of the existing regulations seemed quite detimulative in this area. As early as 2004, when the e-signature law was passed, but is practically not applicable, although it is necessary for an overt of electronic documents in the process of trade between companies, and until last year there was no system for the authentication of domestic payment cards, and now only one works, and that is under pretty high financial conditions. All of this should be added to the fact that very high PTT tariffs for the delivery of goods are purchased via the Internet, so some tariffs are higher than the value of the shipment. It is obvious from the above that solving the biggest number of problems in the jurisdiction of the state authorities and if the relevant laws would start to apply, as well as other proposals for an economic and more stimulating environment, it is clear that a far more favourable environment would be created for the development of electronic trade in Serbia, and then its potentially greater participation in total exports to the country. What is very important is that the concept of electronic trade itself is multidisciplinary, i.e. to influence the ways in which interactions and negotiations with clients take place, the ways in which payments are made, as well as relations with suppliers, and from all of this requires a whole new legal framework. We in the SRS parliamentary group have tabled a lot of amendments to the proposed e-commerce law and especially after yesterday's session of the Trade and Tourism Committee, Resorary Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic pointed out that this is what he said, the economy sector which is least touched by the economic crisis, and that electronic transport is via the network and huge traffic, the cheapest job, because it requires only one computer, one telephone line, a table and a chair, and that such a job costs below two thousand euros and thinks it is possible to employ about 10,000 people in such a way. The draft e-commerce law contains only 23 members, but given the importance and many shortcomings we have identified through the amendments, the SRS will try to fix these proposed legislative solutions. However, I will return to the very beginning of my exposure, the biggest problem, as with most others, will be that very application in practice. I said, this electronic business, or electronic trade is just a component and an electronic business, and the strategy itself is a much more challenging aspect of the transformation process itself. The most difficult part is this organisational culture, that is, the human factor and the change in the system of conviction and behaviour. If too much attention is paid exclusively to technology, and partly or completely ignored, and social dynamics, and political interdependences and other non-technical constraints that come between entities that should be used in this technology, the consequence will certainly be poor implementation and that is what we point to. Because even when the right initiatives are launched, the speed of such technological changes will soon exceed the speed of the necessary changes in the organisation itself, and in time a gap will be created between what technology can provide and what the organisation can successfully support, taking into account the existing and required organisational culture. Only this reduction and overcoming of the gaps is exactly the biggest challenge in business transformation leading to successful electronic business and whose component is the proposal for an electronic trade law, which I say again, is the subject of debate in the Serbian Parliament. I have no doubt that the ruling majority will also vote in favour of this bill, but I repeat again, that as an SRS parliamentary group, we will try to fix the bill with amendments, because the problem, I repeat, by who knows which time, will be applied to such a legal solution in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19184	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 93, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Socialist Party of Serbia -- Unity Serbia, the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica, G 17 plus, the Serbian Radical Party and for European Serbia. I give my word to MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19185	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although they are the subject of a principle-jointed discussion of the e-commerce law and the proposal for a general product safety law, I will nevertheless, in my brief address, only talk, first of all, about the proposal for a law on general product safety, and not with professional observations, from that point of view, because I consider myself to be a person who is not competent enough to speak, but above all, as a consumer and a parent. Because this bill deserves this, above all, because of the objective it has, and this is a high level of consumer health and safety protection and other users who use, above all, with the aim and in order to ensure that all of us are placed on the market exclusively safe products, which include and work out in this sense the emergence of new risks characteristic of modern life and injury conditions. In addition to the fact that this bill also removes legal gaps regarding product safety, since this bill, or its provisions, will apply to all products whose safety is not regulated by the last law. Of course, here already is a very reasonable and logical question, why has Serbia not had such a law so far? Of course there are more reasons. It should be said that due to the very idea of the law, it is also an important interest and lobbying of certain stakeholders. I would just like to say that, of course, it is a good thing that the ministry and the government overcame all these kinds of problems and possible pressures from stakeholders, domestic producers and import lobbys, which certainly did not fit the organisation of the market and thus ensure the inability to profit from various importers and world producers, who did not know where to place the products of suspicious security. Of course, it was not appropriate to prevent unfair competition for those who reduced prices to the expense of product safety and, of course, that, by adopting this law, they would be kicked off the market. They also did not agree with what will be achieved by this law, first of all, the provision of legal certainty to all market participants, as rules of play will now be laid down, detailed treatment, obligations both by producers and distributors, with regard to placing on the market exclusively safe products and continuous monitoring of security properties and risks. Of course, without this law and the provisions of this law, the loss was and is exclusively by the consumer. And of course, here for all of us to be taught should be certain events, and I'd like to list them, from not so long ago, I'd say, incidents that, even more certainly, strengthen their position on the need to support all of us in this bill. Let us all remember one extreme example, the rakia, who killed several consumers who reached out for cheap pleasure and here is a good example of what I was just talking about, an example of a low price on the heart of security that was unfortunately fatal to people, some of whom I knew personally. Then, as parents, let us also remember the recent appearances of children's toys with dangerous chemical substances and certainly the possibilities of children's games with dangerous and far-reaching consequences, how bitter and anxious we were, including some suspicious cosmetic products, etc. That is why I think, and my esteemed colleague spoke of it as an authorised representative, that it is now time to pay attention to Article 29, which prescribes that this law enters into force eight days from the day of publication, in the Official Messenger, and begins with its application at the end of six months from the date of entry into force. We've waited a long time for this law. They saw the consequences that were due to its absence, what this law will bring and for this reason, indeed, I consider the justified appeal of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliament club, the Unique Serbia, to still try to consider cutting this deadline. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, what is always important is control that will have a really important and significant position, and that is where I would like to point out the need for consistent application of Article 21. The draft law, which stipulates the duty of the co-operation of the competent authorities in the exercise of supervision of the application of the provisions of this law. I would like to appeal that it is fully and fully achieved, with full satisfaction that in the criminal provisions, the placing on the market of dangerous or misleading products has been treated with a commercial offence, with a threatened fine of 300 000, or 500 000 to three million dinars, which will certainly, in this area, regulate such sensitive matter, have an effect and contribute to better application of the law in practice, and thus to better consumer protection in this case. Of course, while respecting the above, I consider the bill to be extremely important and significant, with clearly defined objectives and proposals for provisions which will be implemented in practice in these objectives and will therefore be followed by the SPS-JS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19186	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19187	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, good morning. Perhaps this is a good opportunity to show in a plastic way how modern communication technologies work in Serbia. At this point, the viewers of the second RTS program can watch a feature cartoon, the main hero is Garfield, and you, dear viewers watching this transmission, you think I'm standing in the National Assembly right now. However, I am not in Belgrade, at this time I have already arrived in Cachak and with my family I am watching TV broadcasts, providing the public with this debate. I'm also a happy man because I know at this point whether Serbia has entered the Eurovision finals, and by the start of Eurovision, there are two more hours. It is my great pleasure that Hudini and Mr Tijanic can afford us, the only ones in this world, such a pleasure. But let's go back to the future. The DSS believes it is necessary to pass a law on electronic trade, but we are sure that with this 23 members we will not regulate the matter needed to regulate this area to function well and live in Serbia. We think this is an area where we can progress very quickly, for which no major material resources are needed and that in a relatively short time we can make a significant step and make great progress. In this way and in this law, which we have heard is copied from some other countries that have been applying it for years, but I do not see that this law has given them any significant results, we are sure that without amending and adopting new legislation, even this law will not be applicable in practice, but it is another one in a series of non-applicable laws on the state of Serbia. I will refer to some of the key problems that arise in this bill, which is, above all, Article 8 and the question of unwanted e-mail, i.e. "spam", which this law treats only in one sentence. Unfortunately, it's a big problem in the world, because 80% of e-mails are heading this way right now. The area of "spam" is one complex area, which needs to be regulated and looked at all the parallel solutions, how these countries where this technology has lived long ago, to see how the providers can control themselves during their operation, whether there are blacklists in some other countries, and whether they can apply to us and all that can lead to confusion and people who don't understand much in this area, but we can read about these problems every day in the press and follow it through the media, and then our parents wonder what children are reading to them on the Internet, what they have access and offers from different or maniacs, or people who are dealing with fraud on the Internet, so we think it's necessary to prevent it, and how it's predicted in one sentence, it's really not possible. We have submitted the amendment and we think that at least some sublegal acts of this matter can be arranged. These are significant problems, and it's not safe for us to just go over it. I am sure that this law will not be applicable, and because I expected that together in the procedure the law on electronic documentation will come, because one without one another they do not in practice give any solution. Our key objection to this law is to Article 15. The bill of law, because it doesn't solve the question of the so-called "Stamping team." That's what you mentioned at one point, and some colleagues who spoke today. Namely, electronic communications and technologies can conclude contracts, but what is a fact, no one can safely argue when a contract is concluded, because by simply returning time to your computer you can always question and challenge. Practice in the world has shown that it requires an independent regulatory body to deal with this problem and we have submitted one amendment. In most European countries, too, mail is responsible for such a thing, but we need an institution that will put so-called. an electronic seal to confirm exactly at which point the transaction took place. The Internet, of course, allows millions of such jobs to be done in one second. If we can't determine when a certain operation really took place, when the response to the offer arrived, it opens up the possibility of various abuses in electronic trade. As for the electronic certificate mentioned also in one place in this law, we find it insufficient to apply the Law on Electronic Signature, that Serbia can do much more, that prices can be lowered, that there should be competition, and not only one provider, to allow one institution to sell these certificates. I'd really like to hear the number that's been sold so far. It's not enough to start by applying some law, taking pictures of the prime minister and the minister who gets this certificate, and not far from it. Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you mentioned the amount of turnover through e-commerce. We are far from those billions unfortunately. We're far from and people who are interested in this kind of trade through their friends who, say, live in Germany, use their codes to see what on E-buy can find. We don't want to do this in an irregular and illegal way. Let's get this area sorted out. We're sure this might be the kind of scratch on the surface. Some start and maybe a chance for this area to be more seriously arranged, but without the law on electronic documentation, without applying the e-signature law, it's really just going to be an attempt. So try to deliver this law on electronic documentation as soon as possible or to seriously edit some sublaws of this matter so that there are no abuses, and that we can communicate in a simple, easy, fast and much cheaper way with all people who deal in this way in trade and business at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19188	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19189	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, certainly that the e-commerce law is late for some time, but it is also certain that its adoption, as well as the adoption of similar laws that my predecessors have mentioned, means a law from a very broad range of areas called e-commerce, will fully regulate this area. In 2001. In Lisbon, the EU has defined its strategy for the development of an information society, and in order to preserve the economic level of development and allow Member States to grow further. In 2003, the EU Council of Ministers adopted an action plan - Electronic Europe 2005, aimed at providing modern public electronic services and a favourable environment for the development of electronic business by the end of 2005. As a member of the initiative for electronic Southeast Europe, Serbia signed the Agenda for the Development of the Information Society back in 2002. This document provides that Serbia must adopt both the policy and the strategy of developing an information society, adopt and implement legal infrastructure, which means the adoption of several laws, telecommunications laws, the e-signature law, the e-business law, the law on crime on the Internet, the law on the protection of electronic property, and the law on electronic trade that we are talking about today. Electronic trade involves using one or more telecommunications technologies to make contact or direct trade with partners, then obtaining information on markets, competition and business opportunities, as well as buying and selling products, services and information via the network. At the very beginning, under this concept – electronic trade was about electronic data exchange, and today electronic trade is about the following models of electronic transactions: the first model is B2B or "business to business". This model is used to use the Internet and web technologies for buying, selling, cheaper, faster and better business operators. B2C, electronic transactions between companies and consumers. This is what they are mainly called for and where our citizens recognize the concept of electronic trade itself, and it represents a commercial activity that sells products and services to end-users through Internet technology. Then, C2C, electronic transactions between consumers. Here we're talking about a very familiar kind of electronic trade, so auctions. Then, A2A electronic transactions between state authorities, then B2A electronic transactions between companies and state authorities, as well as C2A electronic transactions between consumers and state authorities. The company's data "Forest Research" say that in last year in America "business to Business" and "E-Comerc" business between companies at large over the Internet reached a value of over 70% of total trade. This percentage is over 40%, with no other web transactions included in this percentage. The question arises why companies in these countries, and more and more of us, decide to place their goods and services. The reasons are numerous and justified. To start online it is much cheaper and much more efficient than opening classic shops, whose opening takes a physical location, a bunch of permits, and its impact at best covers the city in which it is located. On the other hand, the opening of an internet store requires only the purchase of hosting and domains, the installation of an electronic payment system, as well as a centralized warehouse from where to deliver goods. The availability of such a store is global and goods can thus be bought by someone on the other side of the world. In one word, the advantages of this type of trade are to reduce costs, faster business, greater competitiveness in the market, faster consumer response, product availability, as well as the purchase from the armchair. Smaller costs and a huge increase in the market are the advantages of switching business to the Internet. There are also shortcomings regarding the fact that there are still a large number of people in the world who do not have credit cards that are required to pay online. In addition, many customers prefer to actually see and try goods before buying them. At this point, the winning combination for companies is to own both types of sales. Using information technologies, the area of marketing is very advanced. By participating in Internet discussions, marketing officers can get useful knowledge of customer requirements and needs. Company officials can visit the website of the competition and thus get acquainted with the characteristics of their offer, look at their strategy and conditions of sale and inform the department of product and service development. Based on this information, the mentioned section for product and service development develops a new product or modifies the existing product. Afterwards, the marketing department introduces and places an offer of new or modified product on the market through the company’s website. And finally, by participating in discussion groups on the internet marketing officers, they achieve support for realized offers. The logical question being raised at the moment, at which stage is the electronic trade in Serbia? As one predecessor said, two very important research from the area of internet usage in Serbia was presented in the local public at the end of 2000. The Republic Statistics Institute presented a survey on the use of information and communication technologies in Serbia for 2008 and the E-Target company released information on the Observatory's research on Internet use for electronic purchase purposes. It is interesting that Serbia was first found in the Observer survey as the only country in the former Yugoslavia. Research suggests over two million Serbian residents use the internet or about 35.6%. Then, yes, one million and 250,000 users are on the internet in Serbia every day or almost every day. Then, that 7% of Serbians bought online, 6.3% had ordered goods or services in the last three months, and in 2007, around 137m euros had been achieved by e-commerce. The projection of the volume of electronic trade in 2010 for Serbia is around 346m euros. Then, 60.4% of Internet users ask for information about goods and services via the Internet. Finally, 20% of Internet users read blogs, and 7.2% create or maintain them. Analyzing data and comparing them with data relating to the other 13 countries in the Observer survey, we conclude that the time of electronic trade in Serbia is still coming and that implementation of the legal infrastructure, in this case the law on electronic trade, is just one necessary step in order for this type of trade to experience its development. It is considered that e-business only came into practice when a sufficiently large mass of users is formed which can change the way in which the public administration works and how it works. This implies both the physical availability of sufficiently strong telecommunications infrastructures and the cost of access that are acceptable to both smaller companies and individuals. An important aspect is the equal availability of quality services in all parts of the country, meaning decentralisation and in this form. In order to create an electronic business framework, it is necessary to provide a broadband internet that will facilitate electronic business, while electronic business will create electronic content that will stimulate broadband requirements. It is encouraging that the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Telecommunications and the Information Society, is taking concrete steps to ensure a better quality internet. Also, work is an important condition to increase confidence in this kind of trade in co-operation with consumer associations and business. Tax policy can also encourage or slow down development. The principles of taxation to be applied to electronic trade are neutrality, efficiency, certainty, simplicity, efficiency, justice and flexibility. Customs and transport, as Mr Milosavljevic said, play a key role in the development of a secure electronic business framework, and all initiatives taken by the rest of the ministry during the previous period are commendable. In the past, one of the limiting factors for the development of and-commera was certainly an electronic payment system. It is only with the appearance of the serious, and I stress, secure collection systems, that the development of this area begins. The adoption of this law, the full implementation of the Law on Electronic Signature, as well as the recorded activities of the relevant ministries give us the right to expect that the time of electronic trade in Serbia is still coming. However, in the coming period special attention should be paid to electronic business as a broader concept of electronic trade. It is necessary to take advantage of all the advantages of information and telecommunications technologies, in order to facilitate a solution to the daily needs of both businesses and individuals. One of the positive examples is certainly the introduction of a one-shot company registration system, which will allow the company to register in one place in a very short time. This is enabled by electronic connection, the Agency for Economic Registers, the Tax Administration, the Republic Health Insurance Office and the PIO Fund. The obligation to implement electronic business in everyday life and work is all, including the National Assembly. I am using this opportunity to point out that it is necessary for MPs to be allowed to pile up material in paper form to finally be obtained in electronic form. I am sure it is the opinion of most MPs, and it is too much to say about savings and efficiency. In the end, I must remind you that investment in information technology is not a cost, but an investment that returns very quickly. In voting day G17 will support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19190	The word is from MP Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19191	At first, I thank Mr. Jeremic for giving me the place and thus gave me the advantage. Starting with the fact that my colleagues from the DSS have already spoken very closely about the draft e-commerce law, for your sake and my time, I will not stick to it, but I will only base my discussion on the proposal for a general product safety law. I think the moment the ruling coalition brought these two points together, I think it's one of the few examples where she was right. These two laws have some similarities, and in their opinion they represent one whole. Unlike this good example, there is a very bad example, where 15 laws in the field of agriculture are combined into one discussion, and in this way I believe that this does not contribute either to the quality of the discussion or to the efficiency of Parliament's work itself. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports the idea of adopting a law on electronic trade and a law on general product safety. The main objective of the proposal for a law on general product safety should be to prevent and prevent any dangerous product from being found on the market itself and thus prevent all potentially harmful consequences for human safety and health. I believe that this basic objective of the law is not fully met and therefore we and the amendment have reacted in Article 1, believing that the general safety of the product should be established even in the pre-market period, in order to fully eliminate the existence of any adverse effects on human health and safety. When I say that we have responded to the amendment in this sense that we have asked for safety to be determined before placing the product on the market, this is where I primarily had an example of when the products are imported into our country. Most or most of our public are known to have recently been imported and cancerous toys of children and clothing that in some longer skin contact can cause extremely severe diseases. For such cases, what is unacceptable – the Ministry was not informed in time. I believe that by passing this law, it is likely that this error, or lack, will be able to be removed. We will also remember the case of a child's toy, a child's baby's "a berries" doll, where there was a great danger and a pity for children, because the fur that the strawberry had on its suit was lazy, so that it could come very easily in the child's organism itself, and the color on the suit itself was unsustainable and in contact with the baby's spitter was disintegrating. There's been a lot of cases like this. I'll just mention a series of cases related to hair dyes, which were also carcinogenic and there was no adequate reaction from the ministry. I will only remind myself that the European Union has banned the sale of children's plastic toys containing materials that further softened this plastic, because later it turns out that these materials are extremely harmful to adults, because they cause infertility and children, because they cause severe damage to both the liver and the kidney. However, I must say that Serbia's consumers cannot be sure of the quality of the products on the market itself, regardless of what they stand out in certain situations and cases of much more money than the citizens of developed European countries, who receive much more quality goods for that same money, fully securely correct goods. I think that a very positive role in pressure on the country could be played by consumer organisations. Such consumer organisations in developed European countries have so far been sufficient. They have existed for decades and what their basic role is to point to consumers, and in time, to the quality of the products they use. For example, we usually get paid by traders, or by the producers themselves, which in some cases casts doubt on the objectivity of such established analyses. Therefore, among other things, I think it would be good to allow consumer organisations to form funds, so that their organisations can get the means to examine these products. I must say that consumer organisations in the world are extremely powerful. We've had an example in the last few years, I think they've been consumer organisations in Germany, which have put the world football championship at risk because of the safety of the stadium itself. We also have a known case where consumer organisations in Hungary acted that a dozen suspicious products from the EU market are fully withdrawn. With us, many domestic and foreign companies were only able to get rich because they strictly respected the regulations that govern us. The safety rules of the product are over 30 years old. I must say, there are 15,000 quality standards in the EU. In our case, if I'm not mistaken, I think there are over 13,000 quality standards somewhere, but what represents an astounding data is that only 2.5% of all 13,000 quality standards have been harmonised with the EU. So we have a situation that we are the only country in the environment that, for example, works on laundry detergents, there is no mandatory stamp of the Ministry of Ecology, which would be necessary, because that way everyone would be absolutely certain that this product is not harmful to the environment. These are standards that have long been introduced into the EU, but have also been introduced in countries in the environment. I must say, it is good that we adopt a general product safety law, which will further introduce order on the market and that will make it impossible to import non-quality goods that have long ago not found their place on EU shelves. It is not good if this law is not applied and it is not good if this law is selectively applied. I must also say that it is very bad that we have allowed ourselves to be among the last countries in Europe to adopt this law and thus show obvious concern for the health and safety of their citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19192	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. He's not here. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is only in favor of the story of the proposed e-commerce law, during which I tried to point out the importance of the applicability of such a legal solution, I would just like to add to the research that has been done and which points to the problem that is evident, that this whole area is still underdeveloped, or that it is not yet accepted in that percentage of the population in which it should be. For example, here's one study that's been done that shows that using the Internet in the last three months is the sale of goods and services, for example through auctions, or by attending online courses or online banking at a pretty low percentage. Internet banking 10.4%, sales of goods or services 3.1 and attendance of online courses 2.5%, while the highest percentage is foreseen for sending and receiving e-mails, i.e. searching for information or reading and downloading any other documents. What I mentioned earlier when I spoke about the strategy and when I mentioned that human resource, and referring to the statement and comment made by Minister Milosavljevic, who yesterday presented at a session of the Committee on Trade and Tourism about the possibility of hiring people and the fact that jobs in electronic trade are in an area that does not require more than 2,000 euros, as said then, should therefore point out that all these traditional distribution capacities used are normally deployed from one third to a quarter of their workforce, so between 75% and 90% of the employees in electronic trade should be on this task. In electronic trade and this function of human resources is particularly important, as not only will such a distribution centre have to employ more workers, but it will have to manage them much more efficiently to provide satisfactory results. What is a matter of security, what should be taken into account and the legislator, is certainly the fact that everything that is connected to the Internet is an open public network that is available to all and that there is always the possibility that unauthorized communication and abuse of what is being done through this means is necessary and therefore, in order to ensure the integrity of information, as well as the authenticity of the information itself, in this modern business. The second law, which is now in the assembly procedure, which is therefore compatible with the e-commerce law, is a law that Serbia has practically not, for reasons unknown to us so far, had neither in the assembly procedure nor adopted, so unfortunately we are among the last countries in Europe, which, I would say freely, and by delaying the adoption of the rules in a certain way show concern for the health and safety of citizens. The EU system for rapid attention to products that are not safe to use warns consumers of all products that can be harmful or risky to health, so from some examples that we could easily find out that there are engines produced in Taiwan on this list, so who knows which way children's equipment and toys with dangerous chemical substances, wardrobes, rubber boots that can cause changes in the skin, cosmetics and furniture. And in the surrounding countries, for example, there is, for example, a longer list of dangerous foods, based on EU instructions, where it reacts immediately when food of suspicious composition and quality appears in some countries, such as salmonella in turkey meat from Poland, bacteria in chicken meat from Germany, lead in green tea and melanin in peanut crackers from China. It's just some of the groceries that are rapidly withdrawn from the market. Why have we allowed ourselves to be among the last countries in Europe that, in this way, by delaying the adoption of regulations, I repeat the finding again, shows insufficient concern for the health and safety of citizens? Therefore, not only have the relevant laws not been passed in this past period, but even the warnings and even those European Unions are not being followed, even though non-member countries are not defending them. The reason for this possible delay may, as some unofficial information has said, be in a possible disagreement between the resolution ministries over the division of jurisdiction, since some of the inspection operations are now overlapping. While he has opinions, and we are very close to this at the SRS MP's club, that the interest of domestic producers and import lobbys is too strong and that it is responsible for them to extend the process of the market in this way as long as possible. The worst part is that in both cases they are at the loss of citizens. When proposing a law on general product safety, I think that it is not good enough and adequate to meet views, comments, proposals that some other institutions may have, and above all, I think of consumer associations, which have also warned that some of the proposed solutions of these laws are not simply applicable in practice, but it is obvious that Serbia does not have some influential core to protect consumer rights, which would be able to possibly isolate the welfare of this society. The proposal for a general product safety law has its shortcomings. On this occasion, I will use the opportunity to call upon the real legislator, or representatives of the Government, to consider in one of the most serious, correct ways the amendments tabled by the MPs of the SRS. You'll see that the amendment doesn't have much, so it's not quantitatively represented, but I think it's about quality amendments that could contribute greatly to improving such a legal solution. What could possibly prevent the adoption of this regulation? It is clear, we have said, that it has the influence of different interests in the sphere of business, various lobbies from the country and abroad, and in this way it has practically provided imports of suspicious goods, not to mention poor quality, and of course it has been profited by both importers and world producers who don't even know where to place such products, because there are few countries where these goods could enter. What may be positive in all of this when it comes to the proposed law is the fact that the legislator has accepted certain suggestions mentioned earlier, and the consumer association, etc., that this production and placing on the market of dangerous products is treated as an economic offense and penalties are also threatened, if I am not mistaken, in the amount of up to three million dinars. Under the bill, Serbia should also receive a national reference laboratory for food safety control, established by the government and which would be the main institution to check the findings of authorised accredited laboratories. What's most dangerous is the situation where regulations don't exist. At that time, no one is responsible for the problem, and then the only thing I've said is, as I've said, is the people who suffer. For example, again, I point to some examples from the surrounding countries, Croatia has formed a food agency, and not only that, but it has already passed a set of laws in the area of product safety, consumer protection, etc. Whether Serbia will also be able to do such a thing is a big question, because you know the situation itself and how many times it has happened that, for example, a piece of clothing that is bought is unusable after the first time, or you might be amazed at the lack of courtesy of sellers, and differences in prices and unaccepted advertising, etc., and certainly there have been more drastic cases, such as food poisoning cases in restaurants etc. Of course, in the race for this profit, manufacturers, traders and service providers forget that we are all consumers, and there should be the role of all the legal acts to remind them, although, as we have unfortunately noted, in Serbia it is all just in turn. The regulated countries, which have a precise, clear, strictly defined rules of this market business and protection system, could in principle act as a consumer paradise, if they compare themselves to the situation in Serbia, because, on the other hand, the Serbian consumer is absolutely and uninvited to its fundamental rights, and its protection was mainly, at least so far dealt with by some non-state organisations, particularly those consumer associations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the example is many and obvious that there was a legal vacuum that was necessary to regulate a good legal solution. However, the question is, if the strategy mentioned is not realised in a proper and valid way, will we then be in a situation to feel really some quality effects of all this. Because if the problems I have already talked about are not regulated and united by law, they are already falling under the law on advertising, medicines, consumers, this product safety law is only in the process, if the mechanisms of appeal and compensation are slow and imprecise, if it is known that the consumer protection law that was adopted in 2005 has experienced the fate of many, which is not to be applied, so it is clear that significant changes, additions and more constructive approaches to these problems are necessary. As far as the proposed law is concerned, at least that was the proposal's intention, I repeat again, we at the SRS Parliament Club have indeed tried to correct what is not good by proposing quality amendments. Therefore, those legal gaps should be removed in terms of product safety, as they will indeed apply to all products. This is a law whose safety is not governed by special regulations. At the same time, it should make it impossible to produce, import, sell all these misleading products, which look like food, which are not, and also affect the reduction of unfair competition. These bad examples are indeed many, but I expect that, if our amendments are accepted, they will be significantly reduced. Otherwise, these draft laws prescribe fines for both companies and companies responsible if they would possibly place these non-secured products on the market or not notify of the risk of the product. The amount of punishment I think we're going to talk about through a discussion in detail. What I personally did not like, and for us as a parliamentary group of SRS, is that for this law, as well as for many previous ones, the provisions of the European Union on this general product safety and the full European Union Directive on misleading products are taking over. I think there is still no legal framework in Serbia to guarantee the safety of all products in general, that there are no rules that would contain explicit and precise provisions on the obligations of manufacturers and distributors to place on the market only safe products from the aspect of all known risks that the product could pose. There is also some information about the activities and market inspections for the past year, the amount, or the amount of money, of the withdrawal from the turnover of the products, are hundreds of millions of dinars. Of course, what colleagues were talking about most of all was electrical appliances, so problems with shop shelves, textile products, hygiene, furniture, motor oil and construction materials. What is important is that this law should also lay down and regulate the criteria necessary to assess the conformity of products with a general requirement for the safety, obligations of manufacturers and distributors, as well as the conditions and arrangements for informing and exchange of information regarding the risks that the product poses to the health and safety of consumers and other users, as well as to monitor them. There are good examples in the world that can be warned in time about safety, primarily about food. Serbia still does not have a fast-warning system on food safety, which has proved very effective in Europe's countries. Here's an example. Thanks to one such system and British competent inspections, EU member states have warned that they have recorded gas-bound alcohol poisoning imported from Austria, and the product was soon placed on the blacklist. Shortly thereafter, a report of official control arrived from Ireland, where dangerous melanin was found in Chinese napolitans. The reSFF alarm and the public alarm system due to non-secure supplies, however, never rang in Serbia, and many warnings of RAPEKSA, the European system for security goods warning. Therefore, this problem is dealt with in part by individual consumer organisations, internet portals, while the state and its competent services are obviously still waiting for their entry into the European Union, when they will probably be obliged to protect the market and take care of the safety of customers, although no country is forbidden to use the data of these European services and, above all, prevent the import of suspicious quality goods. According to RAPEXA, 1,340 non-safety products were withdrawn from the EU market in 2007 alone, some 40% of which were toys that, according to the National Consumers' Organisation of Serbia, were found, unfortunately, in the Chinese market centre of the 70 block in New Belgrade. Also, there is a real possibility that dumped goods from the world are legally, due to all these lacks of regulations, practically imports to Serbia. That this membership in the European Union is not the only way to protect consumers, it also shows an example of Croatia using information from the alert system. She also made her own pilot project modelling RESFF, and in those years, she withdrew as much as 67 medically invalid foods from the market, and the largest quantities of these goods in Croatia arrived, behold, miracles, from the Western European market. Finally, let us also take advantage of the presence of Minister Milosavljevic, related to these two laws that are now in the assembly procedure, and in general for a commercial sector of the economy that needs to be built through this integration approach in the transition of trade. A few things, several important aspects of which the SRS will also point out through the discussion of these two laws and everything that will be expected from the area of trade, which is what the structure of trade and trade networks should be like to develop a modern market economy, and thus also in the interest of producers and consumers, that is, what incentives should be taken to create some modern structure of the trade network and to ensure adequate consumer protection on the market of the Republic of Serbia, and that we take into account the fact that, for example, this law in the procedure, therefore, the law on general product safety should become applicable in practice. What is connected to the other law is what to expect and how to direct the development of trade in this electronic stage of development, because it is absolutely an interest of domestic production to have as much as possible for partners as possible of a trading company in capital, marketing and management, and that a comprehensive restructuring and revitalising of commercial companies could only contribute to the preservation and increase of the potential and sales of our producers on the domestic market. Related to inopartners can also contribute to a more successful integration into the international market. This is also what we need especially in a situation like this, in the year in which there is little positive in that segment in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19194	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19195	Dear Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the very beginning I would like to say when it comes to the proposal for a law on general product safety that it cannot certainly be defined as positive that Serbia is unfortunately one of the last countries in Europe to consider and adopt legislative proposals that regulate this area, although it seems to me, as yet in 2006, the EU Council, as one of the priorities in the area of agriculture, has made our obligation to adapt legislation in the agricultural sector. Of course, we need this law not only because of EU membership, but mainly because of the citizens of Serbia. All the time, failure to adopt and delay the legislative proposal is at a loss only for the citizens of Serbia. It is not good that there are no laws and regulations in Serbia today that contain very clearly defined provisions on the obligations of manufacturers and distributors to bring quality and healthy products to the market. So we have before us a bill that will provide, first and foremost, the protection of the health and safety of consumers. We have before us a bill that will finally give us an answer to the question of who is responsible for the consumer's damage caused by the use of a non-secure product. Of course, when we talk about products all the time, we think about all the final products. The adoption of this legislative proposal, as has already been said many times before, will make it impossible to produce, import, export and sell so-called misleading products, which actually look and act as food, and on the other hand there will certainly be no place for those who, instead of taking care of safety, have reduced prices and thus created unfair competition for those who have done enough and invested in the safety features of the product. The bill clearly defines the obligations of both producers and distributors and those of common obligations. It's a good thing she's defined the responsibility of the merchants. In fact, responsibility has been shared, and on the other hand, it is of paramount importance that citizens be informed in time about the risk product. As far as we can hear, the risks that products pose to the health and safety of consumers will therefore rank information of public importance. We consider the public notification obligation to be one of the most significant characteristics. Among other things, it is predicted that the government can react to a product that threatens consumer health and safety, RAPEX, thanks to a rapid warning system for products that threaten consumer health. Also, high sentences for the perpetrators, from 500,000 to 3 million, have been provided, and that is said several times today. If manufacturers place a dangerous product or products, imports, exports of the so-called product or products on the market. Also a misleading product. So there is definitely a bill before us that will guarantee in a very precise way one legal certainty for everyone on the market, which will guarantee security and ensure that citizens' health is cared for, that is, a law that will allow Serbian citizens to be subject to a significantly lower risk when buying goods. Of course, such a legal proposal will have the support of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. In the end, I'm going to be very brief about the e-commerce law. As has been said, it is a legal proposal which is important for Serbia's EU accession process. Of course, this legislative proposal is primarily a condition for reducing the costs of trade and increasing the competitiveness of our economy. I would like to say, as a colleague who is an authorised representative of the parliamentary club has said, this legislative proposal will also have support in the day to vote on the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19196	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Mr. Minister want to speak to us? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milosavlevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19197	Thank you to all MPs for very useful interventions, and I understood the general support for both legal projects that are really needed by Serbia. Two or three things I want to point out. It is true and I agree with all those who have said Serbia is late, and when it comes to the law on general product safety and the law on electronic trade. We, when we started this job at the Ministry of Trade and Services, it was mid-July of last year, practically immediately completed these laws and proposed to the government for adoption. The government adopted these laws in August, that is, in September of last year, and they have been practically since then, and here to this day they are in line to be the subject of debate and believe in adoption in the Serbian Parliament. From day one, we were aware of how important these laws are for all these reasons that are mentioned and highlighted today, and I believe that we will be much faster and much more successful when we go into the application of these laws. The second thing, several honourable Members of the people have come out, perhaps I will be a little less precise, but unfortunately because some European directives have been prescribed. It was not a copying but a direct transposition of European directives from certain areas into our legislation, because it is the only way to protect our citizens, consumers in Serbia and to enter the European system of information exchange and communication, because unless we do so and agree in the same way that it works in Europe, we would again be in a position to disqualify citizens of Serbia. The third thing, about all the amendments that have already been given, is going to be an opportunity to talk, but here I point out from our side the willingness to talk and negotiate at board meetings, and we see that with what this law has been given, we fix. And I particularly think that it is a useful amendment that Mr Radenkovic first mentioned, and that is whether there is room to speed up the application of the law. Here, we will make another round of consultations with colleagues from other ministries at the very beginning of next week, and if there is a willingness and possibility on their part that as soon as possible our internal RAPEX will live, then and in accordance with that law, it will begin as soon as possible. I agree it was supposed to be yesterday or maybe a few years ago. Thank you and thank you all for your suggestions and for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-14-0.u19198	I thank you, Mr Milosavljevic, for you and your associates, especially the MPs for active participation under the very important laws that we have discussed today. I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a general product safety law and a proposal for a law on electronic trade. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
