ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17728	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, as usual, when it comes to amendments to this bill, the SRS stands in the position of strengthening Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which at point 9, speaks of sustainable development, i.e. that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, a system for protecting and improving the environment. In front of me is a report that made up the resolution ministry. Given that your department, in fact, to monitor the protection against non-ionizing radiation, gave me a bar, a lack of detailed report, I'd like to ask you a question. This section says that 18 inspections and monitoring of the measurement of levels of non-ionising radiation has been carried out in the field of protection against non-ionising radiation. We don't know which locations or what surveillance has established. 92 letters and expert opinions have been prepared. What we think would be necessary, and in the context of the agenda theme, the proposal for a law on non-indulgent radiation, is to provide us with the information we need over time for future work, not just for 2008 but also in the perspective, on what are the priorities of the Non-ionising Emissions Control Department, what are the priority locations and what measures do you think you are taking on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17729	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Slobodan Maras, Vesna Pesic and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the head above Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the head above article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the head above article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Proposal to add a new member. National MP Zoran Antic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 23 be added after article 22. Does anyone want a word? If you want a word, please, sign in, you have to insert a card.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17730	My colleague, you just read it, Mr. Mico Rogovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 of the Law. The aim of these amendments is, in essence, to reduce the deadlines given in the law and finally commit the Ministry to much more agile approaches to the implementation of these laws. The three-year deadline given in the law for its implementation, according to the SNS, Tomislav Nikolic and the Prosperity Group, is too long. It's, first of all, mobile operators, mobile phones. Mobile telephony and, in general, this activity is making huge profits, and we are convinced that in such a material situation, they are in much shorter terms able to adapt their systems to these new legal provisions, which, without a doubt, are sharper than those we currently have. We suggested that that deadline be six months. We think he's perfectly acceptable. A three-year delay, given how agile we are when it comes to law enforcement, would also take part of the time from the Parliamentary Group, in the previous period, indicates that the deadlines should be shortened and the SNS also advocates a much more serious and faster implementation of the laws that come before the National Assembly. This second part, the second amendment, refers to the Ministry's obligations. In this law we have a lot of obligations relating to users of non-ionizing radiation, but very little obligation of the ministry itself. They are not prescribed, nor are the deadlines for the Ministry, in some foreseeable, also relatively short period, to prepare the forms, following the documentation that should allow this law to be applied. In view of everything quite unsaid in this law, my colleague, Mico Rogovic, and I feel that these amendments should be adopted and that the Ministry should be more serious about the work that follows the implementation of these laws, otherwise it will be just the laws on paper, which do not oblige anyone. We've had a lot of them in the previous period, and that's another reason why the government doesn't function well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17731	On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – PROPOSITION OF THE HEMIKALIJA (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Živojin Stanković, Božidar Delić, Veroljub Arsić, Ljiljana Miladinović, Oto Kišmarton, Jelena Budimirović, Igor Bečić, Zoran Babić, Saša Maksimović, Radisa Ilić, Momcilo Živnjak, Miloljuvić Živanovic, Branimir Živić, Lidija Vukić, Jomjanović, Radjasa Dović, Momožanović, Miražan Živić, Mražan Živić, Živić, Dragan Živić, Priživić, Radan Žitić Žitić, Vlana Žitan Žitan Žitić, Vladjan Žitić, Vladjan Jomić, Radjan Jovanović, Petar Žović, Radjan Žović, Radjan Žović, Žović, Radjažić, Radjan Žović, Radić, Radjan Žović, Radjanić, Radjavić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radja. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17732	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, to Article 6(1) of the Law, I wanted primarily to point out that the chemical products prohibited in EU countries are not imported and distributed in our country, i.e. that the time until the implementation of this law is used not to distribute chemical products, or chemicals, from EU countries in our country. Such a practice exists now because the transitional period until the laws and regulations prohibiting the use of different chemicals, which have been found to be harmful in the EU, is too large and allows the funds banned from importing into the EU into our country. It is dangerous, because EU countries, instead of spending money on destroying these chemicals, are exporting them to our country and, in doing so, earning money. It is therefore important that the Agency, immediately after obtaining a ban on the use of chemicals and biocidal products, implement such a ban in our country as well. The bottom line of the proposal is that when a chemical, or chemical, is banned in Europe, almost the current ban applies to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17733	Thank you. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Babovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a chemical law. This amendment concerns the necessity for all the concepts used in this proposal to be listed and explained in Article 3 which implies the meaning of the concepts. Namely, the PIC procedure, which means that the prior consent of the competent authority of the country to which certain dangerous chemicals are imported, based on the properties of this chemical, has been used in this bill exactly 24 times, so it is therefore necessary that its meaning be described in the meaning of the concept, as proposed by this amendment. Of course, and by this bill, as I was saying yesterday, you predicted the establishment of a new agency, I think it's 105th in a row, if Mr. Shormaz doesn't correct me. The agency, like others, will also be financed from donation fees if there are, and especially, the most, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Each of the 105 agencies employs a minimum of 20 people and thus makes a real small bureaucracy factory. Each of the 105 agencies has an average annual budget of about 40 million dinars, i.e. all agencies spend more than four billion dinars per year of money from Serbian citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party, that is, the Progressive Group of Forward Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, does not want anyone in Serbia to lose their jobs, we just want to force your party unemployed in these agencies to make money for their salaries and expenses and not rely solely on the budget and on the money of Serbian citizens. That way, more than 4 billion dinars would be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17735	Thank you, Mr. Granny. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17736	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides that Article 40, paragraph 5, after point 4, adds a new point 5, which reads as follows: "The permit to use that chemical in the country of origin". We wanted to have, with all the documentation needed to get the chemicals in our register, one such certificate, or permission to use that chemical in the country from which its imports are made. The explanation for not accepting this amendment is that in EU countries no authorisation to use each chemical is prescribed, reportedly due to a large number of chemicals found in these countries. However, the purpose of our amendment was to protect our market, and what better protection it would be than to use only those chemicals used in and in the countries from which they were imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17737	Thank you, Mr. Delic. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Ljiljana Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17738	Respected Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, given that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the need for the chemical management area to be regulated in accordance with EU principles and regulations, and in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, it is necessary to delete Article 49(3) of this law. If a chemical is an unacceptable risk to human health and the environment, technical, social and economic reasons cannot be allowed to be defined by the time limit for the substance to be banned. In addition, a particular substance, mixture or product is a comprehensive word, i.e. it is not even specified in which hazard class, which is prescribed by the Agency, Article 10(4), which means that any chemical, no matter how harmful it affects human health and the environment, may, for technical, social, economic reasons, be placed on the market and used for a certain period of time, until the Agency adopts a regulation determining when restrictions and prohibitions become an obligation to apply. According to this article, we don't even know, even, any limit to the harmfulness of a particular chemical, or how long it can be in traffic. All chemicals must be entered in the chemical register, where there should be a special register of harmful chemicals, which would be explicitly prohibited by law, rather than conditionally prohibited, as a Article 49 of this Act. The World Health Organization has repeatedly submitted a report and informed the public about the subjectability of children to harmful chemicals at different stages of growth, as well as the impact and consequences of chemical pollution on human health and the environment. We are witnessing a legal failure to regulate production, transport and use harmful chemicals. In Belgrade alone, there are dozens of gambling facilities that use, store or produce dangerous materials, such as "Long", "Gallenika", "Jugopetrol" etc. The same failure is made by Article 49(3) of this Act. If we want to regulate this area by serious law, we cannot allow such a failure to write a law that would lead to confusion and different interpretations of poor legal terminology used in this article of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17739	Thank you. On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17740	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, I hope that during these discussions, we will receive concrete legislative solutions and concrete answers to our questions in particular. Before that, I must return to the amendment, to what we have provided for in Article 63, that the third word "Agency" is replaced by the word "Ministership", for the most famous reasons. We see no purpose for the existence of the Agency, in light of the financial crisis. In doing so, we do not understand how the state administration will shrink in favour of the agencies. This falls under our tendency to increase the number of employees in state and para-state bodies, if we remind ourselves of the presentation of the form and essence of the Agency's existence. That's what we're going to talk about during the budget rebalancing long and long. What should draw attention to the public, I announce that I will use the time left for the Parliament's group, is that through the wide variety of your statements, analyses and reports, which are detailed on the annual level, we have not found a report on pollution in terms of pollution funds, what has been stored in water, air or land for years, as well as on the economic effects of these pollutions. All we have is analysis, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, the flow of pollution, so what happens during the period in question when the report is done. I've been trying to consult certain inspections, which, mostly, treat pollution flows. We do not have a financial structure related to the deposit of pollution in these very important elements of the environment, and I think that would be necessary, especially in the post-NATO aggression period in Yugoslavia, which has affected environmental derogation, to finally hear what the situation is and what the economic effects of pollution funds are. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17741	On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No,) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 68, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 72, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 73, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 74, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 75, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 77, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 78, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 81, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 87, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 88, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 88, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17742	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, above all, I must read Article 88. The proposal for this law, which reads: 'To monitor the situation and take certain measures, environmental inspection and market inspection, in co-operation with the Agency, prepare annual inspection plans, and twice a year provide the Agency with information on the results and findings of inspections carried out'. The amendment I submitted in front of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, envisions a replacement of the word "Agency" to the Ministry, which I think is quite logical. I believe that the Agency's work is being supervised, that is, to be carried out by the competent ministry. The agency is carrying out entrusted tasks and the ministry should, at least twice a year, obtain information on the state of trust. Although the problem with chemicals in Serbia is evident, it is not the Agency that should be an all-powerful authority to address all the problems related to chemical management, to classification, packaging and labelling of chemicals, the Integrated Chemical Register and the Register of Chemicals placed on the market, restrictions on production, placing on the market and use of chemicals, imports, exports of dangerous chemicals, authorisations for the operation of transport and marketing authorisations, in particular, dangerous chemicals and for the placing on the market of detergents and systematic monitoring of chemicals, availability, surveillance, etc. I read this just to see what's in that agency's job description. The process must include the ministry, although the formation of all these agencies is more like removing responsibilities from the ministry to agencies, which are also budget users and doing parallel and identical jobs that also have ministries. Among other things, the story of chemicals should include the Fitosanitary National Laboratory, for which construction arrived seven years ago from the European Agency for Reconstruction 5.3m euros, which has never been revived, which is not news in this country. Although the position of the SNS is that the establishment of the Agency is merely an increase in the number of employees, on the burden of the citizens of Serbia, or on the budget of the Republic, the Chemicals Agency could, however, have a sense of existence, but it is necessary to control its work, which could, in part, be introduced by accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17743	Thank you. On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 101, the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 103, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17744	Dear Presidency, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a chemical law. In Article 103(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill, the point is replaced by a comma and new words are added: "and the longest within one year". Given that the new law cannot be applied to procedures initiated by regulations which were in force until the entry into force of this law, or under the rules of the old law, it is necessary to allow the end of the procedure under the old law, but within a certain period of time. It certainly takes a transitional period in which, according to already started procedures, the current law should be applied, but that deadline should be limited to one year. If the transitional deadline is set for a year, this would, above all, result in an effective completion of proceedings, with minimal overlapping of the process under the rules of the new law. In addition, non-limiting deadlines could lead to a delay in the process, a confusion over regulations, as well as confusions of employees working on the procedure, while also working on a procedure governed by the new law, i.e. by the regulations laid down in these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17745	Thank you. On Article 104, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer want a word? (No) I conclude the review of the proposal for a chemical law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON BIOCID PRODUCTS You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: together, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Lapčević and Milica Vojić-Marković, Sinisa Stamenković, together, Donka Banović, Zoran Nikolic and Nikola Lazić, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov and Predrag Mijatović. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Legislative Committee has rejected, as an incomplete amendment to Article 11. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milan Lapcevic submitted the bill together, so he, in accordance with Article 148(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure, they will not be discussed. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Lapcevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17746	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to delete article 7. I'll explain why. In Article 7. The bill is intended to form the Temporary List. We believe that forming the Temporary List is not a good solution. I will read our explanation: ''We consider that the establishment of a Temporary List for the submission of a technical file in which biocidal products for which no marketing authorisation has been granted is not a good solution, because it is desirable that there are no exceptions and that all biocidal products can be placed on the market only and only if they are granted marketing authorisation. As proposed in Article 7 of the Law, putting on the Interim List will be a reason for the process of obtaining approval never to end. ''These were our reasons, and we believe that this member of the law is not good, nor is forming a temporary list a good solution, especially when it comes to biocidal products that can be treated as dangerous substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17747	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Stamenkovic wants a word. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17748	Ladies and gentlemen, the PUPS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 7(1) and has proposed that it be changed and said "Biocidal product can be placed on the market and used if a solution has been made to enter this biocidal product into the Interim List for the delivery of the technical file in accordance with this law". We believe that erasing this part of the text must be done because this type of product cannot be placed on the market without final approval. The temporary duration of the period during which the technical file is provided is necessary for placing a biocidal product on the market, and if not armed, it is left at the free will of the trafficlers and then it does not carry out its fact. We believe that this is the concept of Article 7(1). Proposal for a law and direct entry in list 1 or list 1a. the risk associated with the biocidal product is not reduced and we propose that the Ministry accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17749	Thank you. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17750	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this article and is proposing that Article 9, paragraph 2, be deleted. No European Directive, nor the domestic regulation obliges a transporter or importer of a biocidal product to seek and oblige an external producer of a biocidal product to submit, through a representative or representative based in Serbia, an application for registration in the Interim List 1 or 1a. The foreign producer is not registered for the direct transport of biocidal products by our company registry agency, so it is not deposited nor its liability for the product, but is given a privileged position on the market, which brings our domestic organisations into an unfavourable position. We suggest that Article 9 paragraph 2 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17751	Thank you. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs DonkaBanovic, Zoran Nikolic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17752	With this amendment, we wanted to change the text, which reads as follows: "If necessary, for the protection of human and animal health and the environment, by way of a solution set out in Article 1, the conditions for the placing on the market and use of this biocidal product can be determined." What we wanted is to change this "can", because as the law says, conditions can be determined, that means neither the sea nor the obligation, but that it's left to determine, in a manner that's obvious, it can, and it doesn't have to. It seems very important to me that there is a rule in the law that everything must be and that is why we wanted this amendment to be binding. What's interesting to me, and what I have to comment on this occasion, is that something very strange is happening these days. The Committee on Environmental Protection at a time when amendments to the laws in this area are going to the hall, which I think is a bad message to all of us, because Mr Dimitrijevic and I, as members of the Committee, would like to be on the Committee, but here at the same time we have to do our parliamentary work, so we are disabled. What is even more interesting, which comes as a message from this committee, is that the Committee brings some amendments, or amendments to the Committee are adopted. To be clear, these are the government's amendments. What's signed as a committee, these are the government's amendments. So, the government that, kobajagi, is in a hurry, the kobajagi is in a tight spot, it's important for her to have these laws voted here today, today or tomorrow, to show this occasion that, in fact, she didn't make good bill proposals and she's changing them this way in a hurry. I think that you, as president of the assembly, must make sure that MPs have to do their job on time and properly. So today we have to sit here and defend these laws, and we also have to be, as members of the Committee, on that committee. Since one body can't physically be in two places at the same time, please help me with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17753	Thank you. And strictly, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, but you're right about the idea that it's a good idea for committees to work before we go, in a plenary debate, to those points of the agenda. I'm giving suggestions to the presidents of all committees to take care of it, since we have a plan for our work activities, to set up time for the board's session to be scheduled. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17754	Thank you. The PUPS parliamentary group has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment, with a proposal to delete Article 2. We find it inadmissible to remain this part of Article 11 as an integral part of it, because it is contradictory to the law itself and the reason for the establishment and operation of the Agency. If the term "suspect case" is introduced according to a biocidal product, it must become a practice for each biocidal product imported and that underlying doubt must exist as the basis for scientific approach in determining the quality of that biocidal product, i.e. its undesirable effects. We find it inadmissible to remain this part of Article 11 as an integral part of it because it is contradictory to the law itself and the reason for the establishment and operation of the agency. If the term ‘suspect case’ is introduced according to a biocidal product, it must become a practice for each biocidal product imported and that underlying doubt must exist as the basis for scientific access to the quality of that biocidal product, i.e. undesirable effects. We believe that this is technical, practical and very professionally justified and that the Ministry could accept this amendment by obliging the Agency to access all products imported with "a case of suspicion". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17755	Thank you. On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17756	Thank you. The PUPS parliamentary group felt that the minister must be obliged in this member to prescribe the amount of compensation for operations carried out in the position of the first member. Such a confusing Article of the 20th Law provides a broad possibility for a free assessment, as the law says, of "the data volumes for a biocidal product", instead of an exact and precise administrative measure, which is known in advance to all those working with biocidal products, whether it is importers, whether it is exporters or users, and it must be determined according to the type of active substance, and not by its jurisdiction, as is now given in the Bill's proposal. We suggest that the Ministry adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17757	Thank you. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Dimitrijevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17758	We have suggested that this article be deleted on the 45th, for the sole reason it opens up various possibilities. Therefore, Article 45 states: “The Agency can hire a legal or natural person who meets the requirements of the technical arrangement and the specific knowledge needed to carry out those tasks. ” From the experience we had earlier in the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in the last term, we saw business being divided without public advertising. We have repeatedly pointed to the problem that large funds, in the size of 10-11m euros, have been used in a very strange way. In response to these questions we received from the former environment minister, Mr Sasa Dragin, and from the current minister, Mr Dulic, we received confirmation that these jobs were shared without public advertising, through direct contracts. Any such member, who gives the Agency the right to determine, as said in a member, a legal or physical person who will deal with these affairs, opens up the possibility of speculating and doing things like this. It's not just one case. There are other cases, in private laboratories, in determining the quality of milk, so let's say that there are different results, that one laboratory that is hired by this means confirms that the quality of the milk is fine, and that those authorised laboratories, which are practically state institutions, say that this milk is incorrect and find certain objections. So each such a defined member of the law opens up this kind of possibility of speculating and dividing business past the law, past the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17759	Thank you. On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer want a word? (No) I am concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF ZAKORO UPRAVLJANJU OTPADAC (individual) You have received the amendments, which have submitted: Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markićić, Mileta Poscurica, Veroljub Arsić, Božidar Delić, Zeljko Tomić, Zoran Maksimović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijavić, Milan Lapčević, Milica Radović, Željko Tomić, Zoran Ravić, Miloš Radulović, Aleksandar Pajković, Mirovar Petković, Zoran Mašić, Zoran Žaljović, Žaljan Žažanović, Žaljar Žaljarić, Žaljan Žažažan Žažarović, Miražan Potović, Žažan Potović, Olječina Potrić, Omić, Žaljević, Radno Pratiljić, Zakrković, Žar Pratik, Žažović, Žar Pratiktić, Zaktić, Žažović, Žažović, Žažović, Zaktić, Žažović, Žažović, Zaktić, Zaktić, Zaktić, Žažktić, Žažak, Žalić, Zaktak, Zaktak, Zaktak, Zaktak, Zktak, Žradktak, Zaktak, Ž. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Munir Poturak and, together, MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word. The amendment, by the way, has become part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17760	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues from the Ministry, we have crossed the path of agreeing on all these amendments, and I would only, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, who has prepared these laws and have really done quite a number of amendments, which have finally been accepted, would like to thank the promoter, because I think he has understood that we have the best intention and that we just want to fix the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17761	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Sign up, Mr. Pocurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17762	We thought that Article 5 should change the meaning of point 32 by deleting one word from that point, because it would thus get some other content, something that could guarantee the effectiveness of law enforcement. The fact is that, by introducing the technology of thermal treatment of waste material, those companies, those companies, those operators that participate in the waste management process, the entire chain of interested persons, could be, in a certain way, distracted from being able to implement the process until the end, because the technology of thermal treatment of certain types of waste is expensive, and the consequences of such emissions of harmful gases, which would occur as necessary consequences, without the application of appropriate filters to protect the environment in which they are located, would also be fatal in the middle. It is certain that during this period, it would be binding. Perhaps it would also be the subject of rigorous control of some of the intermediaries in waste management, some of the people responsible for that, and some would be costing a loss of permission, not to mention the fact that it would be a dangerous phenomenon if, for example, the dumps were mass-burning, if those who produce the waste were exposed to the risk of burning that waste, instead of paying for the expensive transfer and the rest. Then you investigate who did it. Sometimes it could even be a cause and a loss of a job for many people who work there, owners who create waste in their technological process. We do not think that we are acting specifically, with this amendment, on a certain kind of treatment of waste, which refers to the incineration of waste in favour of different products of other kinds of energy. We didn't touch our amendment item 31, we just wanted to correct the effect of this point, because of future procedures that can be applied in the treatment of waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17763	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be nice if you could just hand over the waste and get electricity or heat to burn. It is about an extremely expensive technological process, which is already being kicked out of the EU countries. Access for one tonne of waste that is burned is 30 to 50 euros, with benefits given by EU countries, and is now being abolished. There is also a problem – what happens to the remaining waste in the combustion process? You get an extremely toxic concentrated amount of waste, which is rich in lactates, salts, acids and the like. Saving one such waste is much more expensive than maintaining one dump. The European Union, as I said at the beginning of its presentation, is already gradually abolishing the combustion plant, switching to other types of waste treatment. By not accepting this amendment, we risk, for the sake of politics, someone's desire and will to appear as someone who successfully leads us to the EU, to be users of outdated technology. In most cases, burner plants that are excluded from use in the EU will be decommissioned, brought into Serbia and mounted and sold as new ones. This type of waste treatment, except for these negative phenomena, is neither favourable in terms of protecting the human environment. I already said it's expensive treatment, expensive maintenance, expensive electrofilters and we get waste whose biodegradation... (President: Time. Would you like to come from the Parliament Group? )......................................................................................................... I'll use a little time from the Parliament Group, at some point, much longer than with classic dumps. So, the government should give up outdated technologies in its strategy, turn to new methods, and even experience has shown that old methods, where waste is deposited in the country, are much more cost-effective, much less harmful than heat treatment, in order to obtain energy that is extremely expensive in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17765	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Dukević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17766	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a waste management law. Article 6 refers to the principles on which waste management is based. My amendment refers to Article 6(1), paragraph 3, where the indent 4 is changed and reads: "use, or use of waste value (composting and other, without burning waste". Before me, my colleague Arsic explained in detail that this thermal processing, as a gathering, is a technologically outdated process, is slowly going to history in European and developed countries. With these amendments, we propose that this thermal treatment and incineration of waste be properly replaced and that new technologies be used, since new technologies are beginning to develop in developed countries of Europe, in addition to the strategy, which is dominant, in terms of reuse, recycling, and in new methodologies comes composting, mineralisation. We believe that this amendment should be accepted and thus we should slowly throw out this thermal process, which affects the environment and other developed countries, i.e. in time to predict and enter new technological processes in waste management that adversely affect the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17767	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Radovic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 11a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17768	The DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment by adding a new Article 11a after Article 11a, which reads: "Autonomic provinces adopt a waste management plan for certain types of waste, in accordance with the strategy and the National Plan set out in Article 3. The plan referred to in Article 1(1) shall contain, in particular: 1) the expected species, quantities and origin of waste to be used, treated or delayed in the autonomous province; 2) the objectives to be achieved with regard to the prevention and reduction of production, the reduction of waste of which cannot be avoided, re-use or disposal of such waste, with deadlines for achieving objectives; 3) priorities, measures or programmes for waste management, with an assessment of the costs and sources of financing, as well as deadlines for their implementation; 4) other objectives and measures of importance for waste management. The waste management plan for certain types of waste of importance for autonomous provinces shall be adopted for a period of five years." What were we trying to accomplish? With this amendment, we propose to determine the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, as set out in Article 19 of this Law, given that there are specific types of waste in autonomous provinces, such as agricultural waste, food industry waste, for example, in the production of sugar, beer production, milk processing, etc. So what we wanted, it was to determine the jurisdiction of the autonomous province in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17769	On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17770	Madam President, I think there's been a technical error here. This amendment concerns Article 13. We have suggested that, after Article 2(2), paragraph 3 be added that the plans set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article must be in line with the National Plan set out in Article 11 of this Act. So, if we already have the National Plan, and local strategies and waste management in local self-government must be in line with the National Plan. That's the goal. We didn't mean to change anything by law, but to make better communication between the ministry, or the state, and local self-government, so that we knew who was doing what and how to postpone that waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17771	I ask the professional services to see if the finding made by the MP, Mr Dimitrijevic, is correct, that the amendment was on Article 13, although it says here that it is in Article 14, but I ask that they gain insight and, possibly, make an correction. Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17772	I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a waste management law. The provision of conditions for the organisation of waste management and specific waste flows shall be carried out by the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the Local Self-Government Unit, the Environment Protection Agency, the authorised expert organisation for the examination of waste, NGOs and other organisations, in accordance with the law. Article 18 sets out the obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Waste Management. My suggestion is that in Article 18, point 2, after the word "waste," instead of stuck, put a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. Waste management should be unique for the entire territory of Serbia. Protecting the environment is strategically important for the whole country. My proposal is that the consent to regional waste management plans is given by the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, for all of our territory, and the province can give its consent to regional waste management if the work is entrusted to it by the Republic, or the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17773	Thank you. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17774	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, Mr Minister, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure, I have submitted an amendment ahead of the Prosperity Group to Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, and to Article 19. A bill relating to the issues of entrusted transactions with autonomous provinces. Honestly, I can't help but think that through this law, as well as through the law on the sustainable development of the fish fund, there's some kind of political connotation going on; I hope you don't mind me, somehow I'm under the impression of that Duke's statute, maybe I do, quite doubt it. The province's independence persists, so I don't know whose independence is worse per state of Serbia, AP Vojvodina or Kosovo, even through seemingly insignificant members of the law, such as this, or Article 4. Proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Let me get this straight. , although it seems to me that this law is tailored to the AP Vojvodina, not to the AP Kosovo, autonomous provinces can deal with the law to carry out trusts rather than decide the provinces themselves on waste management in their territory. They could eventually come up with management plans, but only with the agreement of the minister, i.e. the competent ministry. If autonomous provinces issue consent permits, certificates and other acts in accordance with this law, they shall keep records, monitor and control measures and waste management in their territory, in accordance with this law, the data shall be supplied to the Ministry, i.e. These jobs are done as trusted, I don't see any reason to bring any plans on their own, and without the supervision of the competent ministry. For that reason, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SNS, and I think you should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17775	Thank you. On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in front of the NS Parliamentary Group, Mr Markicevic submitted an amendment to Article 20, asking that the 5th word: "thinking" be replaced by the word "consensus". First of all, termologically, this replacement concept is important, because these are two completely different content. The opinion is something that involves an attitude that is not binding on either side, and consent is an absolute notion, which determines, requires monitoring and possible control of a certain law. In laws concerning environmental and environmental protection and sustainable development, it is certainly important, above all, to develop and raise a new form of awareness in society, to establish as much control over the implementation of these laws as possible. These laws are newspapers in these areas and their application and success depends on much in our future, above all, on the framework in which we will live, in which our lives, in some ways, we will manage to bring to an end healthy. What is most important, what kind of ecological future will we leave to our descendants? That's why we think it's very important to make this termological replacement at point 5, so the word "thinking" is replaced by "harvesty".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17777	Thank you. You spoke within the time foreseen for your MP group. On Article 22, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment, with correction, was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17778	It's a very short explanation. It is an amendment to Article 30, where it is required that, in the 6th word, "30 years" be replaced by the words "60 years". First of all, the period of recycling of the dump is a very important process, as well as professional supervision of the process. Since there are various substances whose degradation is very long-term, we think it is important to double the period of 30 years, because this would certainly, or almost certainly, avoid a number of harmful consequences, and control would be more efficient and long-term. What must be our habit of inheriting and debt, but, in this case, to inherit both obligations and responsibility, above all, towards the environment in which we all live.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17779	Thank you. On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 38, in fact, follows the SNS intensity of Tomislav Nikolic to avoid the thermal treatment of waste and our desire to move on to the latest technologies as soon as possible. We, in principle, have a major problem with waste management in Serbia, by all standards, are lagging behind and that, for the EU and if we constantly cascade and accept those technologies that they give up, we will never be in a position to really comply with the latest standards in the field of environmental protection. I see the ministry has a good will and a desire to significantly improve the situation in Serbia in this area. It is a wish, no doubt, for all citizens of Serbia. Our relationship to waste so far is the easiest to see by the number of wild dumps it has said, over two thousand in Serbia. The ministry should have had the strength, regardless of some major financial resources that would mean the latest way to treat waste, to install it into this legal solution. I think that's the only way in which, in the right sense, we'd be able to catch up with the most developed countries and get a legal project that would be much more quality than the one that's ahead of us. Therefore, the SNS seeks to correct this law in terms of the elimination of the thermal treatment of waste. I hope that by the end of this debate, we will also have an understanding of the government and the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17781	Thank you. On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17782	I'll use my right to say a word. I'm glad that finally the minister is here, so the government's representative would have to understand that waste management can't solve local self-government without the help of the Republic. First of all, it is one of the most profitable jobs, both in EU countries and, according to this bill, it will be one of the most profitable jobs in Serbia as well. The treatment of municipal waste left for the resolution of local self-governments, as they know and know, with less or more help from the government of the Republic of Serbia, mostly smaller. A local self-government, even richer, can hardly afford to build a dump, because for a territory of 100,000 inhabitants and a 25-year-old exploitation deadline, a dump costs between 3-4m euros. There's a problem. Most often, local self-governments solve it by building a specific performance study plan, competing with some programme with the government of the Republic of Serbia and getting some funding, which is not enough, even with their budget, to finish the job. There is a situation as it was in Pogorevec, Smedereva and Kovina. The three municipalities applied for a regional deposit, as the government implies regional deposits, not municipal ones; they made an agreement, competed with the government and received certain funds. Someone said the program didn't go away because the mayor from the fire department was from the SRS. I can say that's not true. He didn't make it because it was a common thief. After the local elections, funds received from the Republic, according to the wishes of the current mayor of Smederev, since the three municipalities were unable to build the dump themselves, a strategic partner was found, and funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia... It's been two minutes. Do you want time for the MP's group? I'm done. ... They should not be spent through public procurement, but the Mayor of Smederev directly wanted to reroute them to a strategic partner, which, you agree, at the very least, is a thief, especially if I tell you that the exploitation of a dump costing about four million euros, with a period of exploitation of 25 years and a territory of 100,000 inhabitants, has been economically profitable for the third year. So, a strategic partner, em, who built it with the money of Serbian citizens, will earn 22 years in the dump, charging access from those same Serbian citizens. It is time for the government of the Republic of Serbia to start solving this problem. If someone wants to exploit the dump, make it himself, not with budget funds that will pay off as if he built it all himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17783	Thank you. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17784	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Parliament Club Forward Serbia, SNS Tomislav Nikolic, I have submitted an amendment to the 41st member of the Bill on Waste Management and I ask that the full member be deleted. When we analyze the reasons that conditioned the adoption of this bill, then we realize that this is inadequate waste management, and my opinion is that here, right now, in this 41st article, it is inadequately managed by waste. I remember some of the past times, when the environment minister was Sasa Dragin, his very serious performances in the Serbian Parliament, at least it looked like that, and now it's just a changed portfolio, so Mr. Dulic took that role and I hope again that he will properly do the job, at least that way in the Serbian Parliament, although there is nothing ideal in every law, and when applied in practice, there can be very serious problems. What's indicative of me is that whoever wrote this bill comes up with some contradictions, and sometimes agencies are given a lot of authority, and the government doesn't, for example, ask for very serious things, what kind of transmission, transport of radioactive waste, etc. In Article 41, paragraph 7, the Government is closer to prescribing the types of waste for which thermal treatment, conditions and criteria for determining the location, technical and technological conditions etc. We at the SNS think, I think it's my colleagues, before I started speaking, they realized that this was an expensive and technologically outdated procedure. For this reason, I have no illusion that you will adopt, that the parliamentary majority will adopt this amendment of mine, but let this be the voice of the cryer in the desert, because man only gets in life what he gives to others. Our relationship with nature is what it is and nature will respond to all the things that a man does to her.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17785	Thank you. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17786	The DSS wanted the amendment to read, i.e. We have changed Article 43, and it is now said: "The unit of local self-government regulates the organisation and way of selecting and collecting waste for recycling according to", what we have added and what is important is the "local waste management plan of Article 13 of this Act, which must be in line with a special programme which, on a proposal from the Ministry, determines the Government. '"What did we want to accomplish? We wanted it to be quite precise how the local self-government unit organizes the organisation and way of selecting and collecting waste for recycling. In fact, we wanted to ensure the consistency of the local waste management plan set out in Articles 13 and 15. Proposal for a law with a special programme adopted by the Government on the basis of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17787	Thank you. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Olena Papuga and, together, MPs Željko Tomic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Olena Papuga and, together, MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 46, amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 46, amendments were submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 46, amendments were submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 47, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 47, amendments were submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 47, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milos Radulovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17788	Thank you, Madam President. This member is, more or less, fine. What we have proposed with the amendment is that, instead of saying "the Ministry", the words "the Agency for the Protection of the Environment" are added, given Article 45. It doesn't change the essence of the law, but since we already have the Agency, it should keep that record, not run by the Ministry. I think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17789	Thank you. On Article 47, amendments were submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. At Article 48, the amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17790	In Article 48(5), the word “delivery” is deleted and replaces it with the words “The Ministry of Environment Protection Agency”. Mr Dimitrijevic in the previous amendment, in fact, began to explain this as well. We believe that the priority of every democratic authority is to make decisions at a much wider level and therefore we felt that the Environment Protection Agency, which, otherwise, works very well and has visible results, should take a part of the decision and that it is only at the Ministry to control it. So we wanted to specify the obligation to supply data from the waste oil records to the Environmental Protection Agency, in accordance with Article 75(1) of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17791	Thank you. On Article 48, amendments were submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. At Article 49, the amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17792	We're continuing the story of previous amendments as well. Same thing again. Thus, the word “Ministership ” is deleted and replaced by the words“ Environment Protection Agency. ” It does not diminish the importance of the minister, the minister edits the area and gives special powers to carry out the burning of tires, but the records cannot be kept by the Ministry, or by the minister, but by the Environment Protection Agency. That is the essence of these amendments, and I think these amendments should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17793	Thank you. On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17794	We have just started a series of amendments that the DSS thinks should open up as a question, which is the question of democratisation of institutions. And here, in Article 50, paragraph 8, behind the words “Deliverable”, the word “Ministership” is deleted and replaced by the words “The Environmental Protection Agency”. The amendment provides for the obligation to provide data on the quantity and type of electrical and electronic products taken over to the Environment Protection Agency, in accordance with Article 75(1) of this Act. In fact, what's the problem, and it's going to be more and more problems, is that more and more computer equipment and other electronic products appear amongst the amount of waste. I think it's very important that the data on the amount of this waste and the method of disposal are controlled, and the Agency for the Protection of the Environment is exactly what needs to be done. I think the amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17795	Thank you. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17796	Same thing again, to shorten the procedure. The word “Ministership” is replaced by the words: “The Agency for the Protection of the Environment”. The question is, what does the Environmental Protection Agency do if it doesn't want to do that kind of records? I think a whole series of members in this law should accept that this kind of data update is done by the Environment Protection Agency. What do we have this environmental agency for anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17797	On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Lodi Gabor. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 52, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17798	This is a very professional amendment and I don't think there's a need to read it, it's in front of you, and the reason for this proposal is that we wanted to determine the obligation to postpone, or decontamination of only devices containing more than five decimeters of cubic RSV, or to group the editing of that matter in the relevant position. This further harmonizes the management of this type of waste with EU legislation, which we are seeking. Since the owner of the device containing RSV may be a person who does not have the expertise to recognise this device, the reporting obligation shall also be transferred to the person holding those devices. The responsibility of the Environmental Protection Agency shall be specified to maintain, instead of the Ministry, the register of devices in use containing RSV, in accordance with the section laid down by the Ministry Act and the regulation governing the integrated pollution cataster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17799	Thank you. On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 54, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milica Radovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17800	This amendment specifies the obligation to deliver data from waste asbestos records, instead of the Ministry, to the Environmental Protection Agency. We believe that the ministry should be relieved not to decide on every issue in this area and that the Environment Protection Agency should be competent to decide, conditionally speaking, on less important issues, before the Environment Protection Agency has so far shown that it is doing its job well and it would be quite correct to place this issue in her jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17801	On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Articles 56 and 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Lodi Gabor. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic, together, proposed amendments to members 56 and 57. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17802	We felt that so far the members of 56 and 57 should join together and be a new Article 56, which refers to waste management from facilities where health care and management of pharmaceutical waste are carried out. We proposed this merger, given that those members are governed by a specific type of waste, i.e. waste management from healthcare facilities, as well as the management of pharmaceutical waste. It's an extremely sensitive area. In general, there are less or more sensitive areas in the environment, and therefore we felt that this should be controlled and members 56 and 57 should be joined together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17803	On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Articles 57 and 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member 58. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17804	Thank you. This is a specific amendment. It's a very dangerous waste in the production of titanium dioxide. In order not to read the whole explanation and what is foreseen by the amendments of this article, we think that this proposal, or amendment, is better governed by the management of this waste, which is derived from the production of titanium dioxide, and is in line with the waste directive of the titanium dioxide industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17805	Thank you. On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 60, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17806	Our amendment consists of a change in Article 60(3) and reads as follows: "Autonomic provinces are entrusted with the issue of authorisations for the collection, transport, storage, treatment and disposal of waste for all activities in the territory of the Autonomous Province and for all facilities for which a permit for the construction is issued by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province". Our explanation is clear enough. The issue of a work permit is not a completely clear term. It is not possible to specify exactly what is meant by the work permit and who issues such licences, which would make it significantly difficult to determine the authority to issue licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17807	Thank you. On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 62, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17808	I hope you'll include the time, and I'm interested in how much time I have left as an authorised representative, as well as the Parliament Group, do we have any time at all? (President: Three minutes more and 13 minutes as an authorised representative, so 16 minutes in total. Thank you. The amendment to Article 66(1) concerns licences, i.e. the period of time of authorisation. The SRS considers it necessary, since it is a storage, treatment and disposal of waste that can have adverse consequences for the safety and health of the population, to shorten the period of validity of the licence from 10 to five years. I hereby announce that I will use the time provided for the Parliamentary Group and, most likely, the time of the authorised representative. This is an opportunity to remind, when it comes to waste management, the representatives of the Ministry and Mr. Minister, who is present, of a significant example from practice, which we think is incorrect and very dangerous. It's about a project of recovery, recreation and exploitation, until final closure, a wild dump. I think in the debate, in principle, I was talking about this project. It's about Surdulica and Vladica Han. The project should refer to 50,000 residents of these municipalities. In the period when the SRS exercised power in that part of the municipality, there was really no problem in co-operation with the ministry. All necessary permits and resources are provided. However, it should be noted that, at its expense, local self-government has made a sub-project of organised collection, execution and disposal of municipal waste from the territory of the entire municipality. What's left to do is a transfer-station project for the municipalities of Surdulica and Vladic's Han, for 50,000 inhabitants. That's all I care about. The change in government has affected the suspension of a project that we consider to be significant for improving health and the environment for 50,000 inhabitants of Surdulica and Vladic's Han. Assuming that there is a consensus on this, we expect concrete action from the resolution ministry, because, you will allow, what we have to do for all this time of debate on the set of environmental laws, is to find out what the environmental situation really is, and then the state of health of the population in Serbia's territory. What should also be said is that we have not encountered any information concerning pollution funds, anything that is dangerous for the health, life and safety of all citizens of the Serbian state. All the time and all these years we've been talking about pollution flows. I repeat this, in order to finally ask for official information about the situation with pollution funds, how much financial resources it takes to resuscitate the environment, water, air and land, so that we may not have an analysis of the effects of the use of illicit weapons during the period of aggression. In this regard, I am convinced that Mr. Minister will finally answer that question, I would like you to tell me what the parallel practice of Western European democracy countries is when it comes to the direct threat to the lives of people, and therefore also to the derogation of the environment in the process of use, such as biological, chemical and radioactive weapons? To remind you, one-and-a-half tonnes of aggression was thrown into the territory of the SRJ, mainly on Serbia's territory. What in these cases do countries that have a high degree of environmental consciousness, high standards in the field of environmental science? In this case, what would the World Bank recommend, which is very sensitive to environmental standards, and what has the state of Serbia done about it? What we all expect is that, mainly, it responds to a concrete criminal lawsuit against those who have committed such a crime. You'll admit, 89 children died during the period of aggression, a large number of increases in patients with carcinogenic diseases, not to mention an increase in carcinogenic disease in young people and children. I believe that you once visited the Oncology Institute, to see what it looks like in action what they've been doing to us for 78 days. What should be a logical question from all of this is – why did the state of Serbia not sue those who made a humanitarian disaster in the territory of Serbia as a whole? I assume you've all seen the article that came out of one daily list, it's about factories that don't work, and the topic is waste management, which contains thousands of tons of hazardous waste. As far as I can tell, a statement was taken from a representative of the Resistant Ministry here. Only because of the public, who probably does not have this information, is it sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide, cyanide salts, ammonia, nitrogenic acid, as well as many other harmful substances that are in factories throughout Serbia. What kind of factories are we talking about? About Viskozi Loznica, FAC a.d. Loznica, HIP "Azotari" Pančevo, "Zorki - colored metallurgy", "Zubac", "Zupi" Kruševac, "The First Five-year-olds", Tristenik, "14." October" Kruševac, PKS "Lateks" from Čačka, "Magnochroma" Kraljeno and "Vitojevac" Vrnjačka Banja. In particular, when it comes to the factory "Zorka - colored metallurgy" from Šapac, which is in the process of restructuring, there are directly stored dangerous substances and there are 5,000 cubic cc's of zinc sulphate in tanks and 350,000 tons of jars of residue. The basic composition of this deposit is heavy metals and their compounds. All of this is in the warehouse, and what the representatives of the resolution ministry have answered, is that there are no financial resources for the disposal and destruction of this waste, and there are no necessary personnel to deal with this, given that in Serbia's territory, I missed the fact that a facility was built to destroy this kind of waste, I know it's not. This is an attempt to draw attention to a serious problem. One such is expected in 2011. The project is 14m euros, which is some assumption, but since you do not have a facility in your territory that is overly needed to solve a terrible problem, it is common practice to export and destroy such waste in factories that are authorized to do so. It can't be done in this case, because most factories don't have financial resources, because they just don't work. We come to what is the most common question, and it does cause a common reaction, because you can't defend indefensible. There is no concrete answer to that question, knowing the situation when it comes to pollution funds and pollution flows, because we do not have a financial structure to solve this problem. That the personnel are also a problem, I saw according to the financial report you held for 2008 and the intervention of inspection services. It is a solid number of interventions and attempts to bring about a orderly situation, when it comes to polluters, but in the context of a set of environmental laws and umbrellas that should introduce standards into this most important area of life and normal functioning of all people, it is really impossible to think about how this process should be implemented unless we have a concrete picture of where we will get the resources that are necessary. We're probably in a perspective to solve this problem in terms of pollution funds. The waste stands and causes certain pollution, which directly affects people’s health. Then you have the bewitched Olympic circles, the inability of adequate medical treatment, etc. What we'd like to hear is the financial effects of environmental recovery. When it comes to pollution funds, do you have a precise picture? We have certain parameters, which we will present during the debate in detail on the next set of proposed laws, but it would be much easier to understand the whole story if we had a financial framework, and then we would know what time period it takes for people in Serbia to realize that they will live in a better environment and that they will manage to repair dangerously impaired health. Because every day, the air that is polluted, contaminated is breathed, water that is also contaminated is used daily, and products that come from contaminated land are used daily, which will say that it is a very significant problem. One of the major problems is the construction of factories that predict all the technology so that something like this doesn't happen. It's also one of the topics we're going to talk about during the next agenda points, but here would be the answer, if we could continue the debate further. Unfortunately, by consulting your site, I did not find the financial effect of deforestation of the environment when it comes to pollution funds. Regarding the disposal of waste, I saw that this is a very important fact, so we would like to know – do you have a plan of activity when it comes to this situation? As far as we know, they worked, didn't work, factories have an obligation to deal with their waste, but the waste stands and directly destroys the health of Serbian citizens. What's in your jurisdiction is editing this area. So it falls under the Ministry of Environmental Protection again, so we're interested in how does the Ministry think it's gonna solve a cost-effective problem? We'd like to know the number for all of these factories that were mentioned, how much that, translated, means financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17809	You've got seven minutes left. Thank you. On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Slavoljub Stajkovic, who through the procedure became an integral part of the bill. On Article 72, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 72, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Is there anyone who wants to see you? (No) On Article 74, the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 74, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17810	After several amendments that we have tried to transfer powers from the Minister to the Environment Agency, here is an amendment that we want to strictly specify the power of the Minister to prescribe the content and form of the report on the implementation of the rural, regional and local waste management plan, all in order to bring the species and the extent of the data to be delivered, in accordance with the section laid down by the Law on Ministrys and the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17811	Thank you. On Article 74, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 75, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 75, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17812	We did it as a parliamentary group, so we can't figure out who will. In Article 76, we provided that the word "Ministership" is replaced by the words "authorising authority for the issue of licences" and, behind Article 3, to add the item 4, which reads – the Minister prescribes the content and appearance of the register. The proposed amendment sets out the obligation for all competent authorities to issue waste management permits in accordance with this law that the data from the register of authorised licences issued shall be kept in a uniform manner, both in terms of content and in relation to the prescribed form of the register, as well as that of the same data to the Environmental Agency. The aim of this amendment is only to regulate and to specify the law, to make the law as neat as possible and as precise as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17813	Thank you. On Article 75, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 75, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic, who became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 76, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17814	In Article 76(1), the word "Ministership" is deleted and replaced by the words "the competent authority for issuing licences". Article 3 adds item 4, which reads – the minister prescribes the content and appearance of the register. The proposal for an amendment shall specify the obligation of all competent authorities issuing authorisations for the management of waste, in accordance with this law, that the data from the register of authorised licences issued shall be kept in a uniform manner, both in terms of the content and the prescribed form of the register, and that all such data shall be supplied to the Environmental Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17815	Thank you. On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 79, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic, who became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 79, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Do you want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17816	This amendment applies to specific waste streams, such as spent batteries, batteries, waste oils, waste tyres, waste from electrical and electronic products. We simply felt it was necessary to write it this way. Article 79 adds Article 4, 5, 6 and 7, which reads as follows: "Producers or owners of specific waste streams shall pay compensation for the management of specific waste flows. The funds achieved from the special fee set out in Article 4 are revenue from the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and are intended to be used through the Fund for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Serbia. The funds referred to in Article 5(5) shall be used for the investment and operational costs of the management of specific waste flows. The environment minister is closer to determining specific waste flows, taxpayers, accounting criteria, height and how to calculate and pay compensation." So, what did we want to accomplish? This amendment, as proposed, ensures that waste management of special waste streams, and I said it refers to exhausted batteries, accumulators, waste oils, waste tyres, waste electrical and electronic devices, waste from fluorescent pipes containing live and waste vehicles, pays compensation to the Environmental Protection Fund. The mandate of the minister has been established to determine specific waste flows, obligors, accounting criteria, height and method of calculating and paying fees, all in order to introduce economic instruments in the application of the principle of responsibility in the management of specific waste flows. What Mr. Minister also commented, which we believe may be an excuse for taking some funds to local communities, is to find the right economic instruments that can provide resources that can later be expected to help waste management. Our amendment is in that direction and filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17817	Thank you. On Article 90, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic and he became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic, and he became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 97, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and he became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 97, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zeljko Tomic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17818	This amendment improves Article 97, because in the way we have proposed it takes up wider space and it is more precise. Article 97 is amended and reads as follows: "A unit of local self-government shall: 1) within one year of the entry into force of this law, draw up a list of unregulated deposits in its area which do not meet the conditions laid down in this law; 2) within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, to draw up projects for the recovery and recycling of unregulated dumps, to which the ministry, respectively; (3), within a year of the date of entry into force of this law, shall, in agreement with one or more units of local self-government referred to in Article 34(1) of this Act, determine the location for the construction and operation of the facility and storage, treatment or disposal of waste in its territory. The list of unregulated deposits shall contain information on the location, spatial and geometric characteristics, species and quantities of delayed waste, the time limits of their recovery and re-culation, as well as other data of importance for the identification and implementation of projects referred to in Article 1(1)." Therefore, this amendment sets out the time limit within which the local self-government unit is required to implement everything regarding the list of unregulated dumps, to form an information system and thus to make better communication with the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17819	Thank you. On Article 100, the amendment is, in the same text, the mid-national MPs Lodi Gabor and, together, MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic, and has become an integral part of the bill through procedure. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to address it? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON AMBALAGE AND AMBALAD (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Veroljub Arsić, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antic, Stefan Zankov, Božidar Delić, Jelena Budimirović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milos Radaković, Milan Dimitriović, Željko Tomić, Arsen Đurić, Miroslav Petković, Milica Vojić, Vladimir Milentijević, Zoran Nikolić, Svetlana Stojaković-Milovanovic, Janko Vjeljinović, Mileta Poscurica, Saša Maksimović, Milan Knežević, Kenan Hajdarević, Predrag Mijatić, Radiša Ilić, Radiša Avljan Marović, Eljanović, Eljan Živić, Jeljavić, Živić Živić, Živić, Milić, Živić Živić Živić, Milić, Milić, Milić Živić Živić, Mil. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected, as incomplete, the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Krstin to Article 42. It's a bill of law. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Marina Ragush, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17820	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Let me just quote, I hope you count this time. ''The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, immediately after the injury has been done. '' Therefore, Article 144 is very clear and says – when the draft law is completed in particular, the right to the final word is proposed. You asked, I'm disappointed, Mr. Minister had something to say about everything we said as a question, but, well, that's my subjective feeling. I suppose you will eventually take part, or an authorised representative of the motionor. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you haven't even looked in my direction. I have a few very important minutes left to use for that agenda point. I was reported, I even pressed this key, so I think there was an injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17821	Mrs. Ragush, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You can use that time now. I didn't see you sign up on the monitor. I look around the O.R., and since you're really neat, and this way, through the electronic system, I haven't seen you, but nothing bothers you, you can now, when we go, talk. You've got seven minutes left. You can use your time. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pocurica, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17822	Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to, intervening at the very beginning of the law, in Article 3, after Article 1, after point 6, by adding point 7, to extend the functioning of this article, to give meaning to one important idea, which would fit into something that was processed under Chapter 3, and it is called the National Goals, where appropriate measures should be taken on the plan of reducing packaging waste at all levels, from production, use and recycling. We think that the introduction of point 7, which integrally reads: "encourage organised collection", would lead to an effect that continues to say, "and thus reduce the amount of municipal waste and recycling of packaging waste". We think that if the final producer, the final supplier, were to be linked in a certain way to the end-user, which is citizens who use drinks or other contents from packaging waste, they would be financially motivated to participate in the collection, whether it is return or one-time packaging. This would reduce the amount of waste in circulation in an organised manner, reduce its unplanned environmental dispersion, and certainly improve the possibility of dumps, or dump sites, being kept longer in competent composition and being longer functional and applicable. Because we are full of these influences all over Serbia, especially PVC packaging, plastic, where it is extremely inappropriately scattered around the environment. Therefore, symbolic financial motivation would contribute to improving the state of environmental protection and would be directly linked to those who are a direct user, therefore, consumers, or citizens who are used to do so, which could be in certain places, especially in the conditions of developed trade chains and urban environments, to organise the collection of packaging waste, so that we can all contribute together to the realization of what is in the national objectives and the programme proposed by the lawmaker here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17823	I thank Mr. Poscurica. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Milos Radulovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17824	In this amendment, we have provided that the 6th word: "Minister" is deleted and that the words "Agency for the Protection of the Environment" are added, and that further text remains the same. So, what's this about? It is that packaging should be produced so that the total level of lead concentration, live and other harmful products does not exceed any limit value. We're going to have a situation where the minister, for example, is not an expert in the area and he can't prescribe those limits. The Agency has in place professional people, who know and who rule the matter, and therefore they will prescribe these limit values. That's the essence of that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17825	Thank you. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milos Radulovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Tomic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17826	In Article 11, paragraph 5, the word "Serbian" is replaced by the word "International". If we really want to comply with our laws with EU legislation, we must slowly change our standards slowly to the common and well-known, as already in Europe with the usual standards. When it comes to recycling, and we are far behind and behind in that area, there is no need to self-initiately set our standards, but to follow those who already exist, or, to put it that way, to learn from those who have strayed a little further from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17827	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17828	Madam President, in Article 14(2), after the words. "responsible", further text is deleted and replaced by the words "Internationally recognised standard". What started my colleague Zeljko Tomic, I continue in the same direction. So, we need to bring our legislation in line with EU legislation, not because we want something special to join the EU, but because they are in the protection of the environment far ahead of us and I think we should follow this path towards EU laws and we need to adapt our standards to EU standards, that those who exist today are slowly changing and moving towards already common EU standards. When it comes to recycling law itself, we haven't gotten very far in that area. That's what we saw in the principle debate when we talked about it. Indeed, I don't think there's any need for us to set our standards in this direction, because there are already some internationally recognised standards from countries that are far away in that area and we should slowly accept these standards as our own, from which we will not be ill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17829	Thank you. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic, Zoran Nikolic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17830	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 15(5), the word "Minister" is deleted and replaced by the words "The Environment Protection Agency". You've already noticed that our tendency is to transfer certain responsibilities from the Minister to the Environmental Protection Agency. It's just weird that the minister doesn't accept this kind of amendment, because we want to relieve him of these obligations, and we need to hire the Agency as much as possible, because it's normal for the Agency to deal with all this stuff. The area of numbering, abbreviations and symbols on which a system of identification and labelling of packaging material is based is arranged at almost all over the world, so to speak, unisonally and we do not see the need for the minister to deal with it. We think it's a real job for the Environmental Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17831	Thank you. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17832	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Bill on packaging and packaging waste, in Article 17, proposes that the Government and interested entities from different economic branches conclude a mutually voluntary agreement on how to achieve national objectives in this area. Article 17 states that the essential elements of a voluntary agreement, such as the specification of objectives and deadlines for achieving them, the obligations of the manufacturers, the obligations of the parties to analyse the results, and then the measures to be taken if someone does not comply with the agreement, the time when the agreement and other issues enter into force. The agreement is concluded between the government and other interested business branches. My proposal is for Article 17 to change attitudes 1 and instead of the current proposal, which reads: "A voluntary agreement contains especially" to say, "A voluntary agreement with industry contains particularly," and then continues to dots. I made this proposal because this way closer determines the subject that has the most impact on our country's environmentals. In fact, the largest contaminant in both our country and the world, we talked about it earlier, is industry, so this way closer would determine who this biggest environmental polluter is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17833	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17834	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, when these laws are written, it seems to me that he loved to write a law and create a framework in which economic operators, citizens and everyone else would act, and he would enjoy it. However, the situation is slightly different. This law could be applied in a utopian country, which certainly is not Serbia. I hope he can at least solve this problem that we read about every day in the paper, the problem of packaging waste when it comes to transporting and using dangerous chemicals. We can't say that even the other, less dangerous individual, is not dangerous, because the mass use of PVC packaging waste is so dangerous. The state has no real strategy on this issue, how this problem will deal with it. I can say that the experiences that have been applied so far have also been very negative. I'll tell you again, Mr. Minister, one situation in my life, from the field. Several municipalities from Braničevski County have concluded a contract to collect solid municipal waste with a certain company, "Trojan Fisher". It is concluded in three or four municipalities, and the gentlemen from the company charge the citizens to carry out municipal and packaging waste, and they have no sanitary dump, but collect packaging and as such it is sold. What's not packaging waste, they throw in fields wherever they get. I don't see how this law will solve these problems in life. It's life's problems. The only dump that is sanitary on Braničevsky County territory is a dump used by the town of Požarec, which has already exploited its capacities. We don't have the right to resolve, and we don't have the help of the state. When it comes to packaging waste, you can't just look through environmental protection. You have the other one, the economic aspect, and that's the savings. Recycling or re-use of packaging waste, in the first place, reduce the need for imports of repromaterials or packaging. It's the first effect an economic state needs to achieve. As for environmental protection, I don't see through this law how you're going to stop citizens from burning their own PVC packaging waste, especially since you haven't created a habit of collecting it and, worse still, you haven't created conditions for them when they collect it, to see what they're going to do with it. You've left everyone else to do it, and whether it's going to be some companies, entrepreneurs, local self-government, it's important that the state takes the problem off itself. A serious national strategy for packaging waste needs to be developed and a positive long-term campaign should be implemented in both citizens and businesses, creating the habit of what they will do with this waste. This way, creating legal frameworks and just determining who will and how much they will pay because they do not comply with the law, will not produce results. It's just enough to open a newspaper a few days ago and you'll see where all your junk is, and it's extremely toxic, it's in Serbia, although it's known whose it is, although there are penalties.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17835	Thank you. There are nine minutes left for your parliamentary group. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17836	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to article 18, in accordance with the SNS's intensities of Tomislav Nikolic that as much as possible stimulate citizens and retailes and participate in this waste collection process, because it is obvious that the recycling process depends, above all, on the collection of waste; of course there are two links in sequence, and that is the processing and market for this processed waste. Collecting is something that is elemental and without stimulating citizens, businesses, retailes, wholesales, we can't count on the positive effects of this law. We are very unhappy with the solutions proposed in this law and they are more declarative. We don't think it's going to solve the waste problem properly. The Ministry's intensity, as I recall, is that it is stimulated by some 40 pairs of this plastic packaging, i.e. the return of that packaging. The amount itself is unstimulative and would have to be significantly higher. The problem of packaging from the previous period, which has a lot to do and which must be included through this legal solution, has not been resolved, as this implies cleaner Serbia and implies that in some future period, through this law, we will have some more concrete results. So, by stimulating citizens, not by criminal policy, the SNS is counting on us to solve the problem of pollution in our midst. In Article 18, with the promotion of citizens, we have proposed, or I have proposed my amendment to enable retailing, which actively participates in the waste collection process, to compensate for the costs of the collection. We believe that the Ministry and the government themselves should have a little more understanding of the retail position, because retailing could, as an active participant in the process of gathering, and how to help implement and implement the objectives of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17837	Thank you. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Radovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milos Radulovic. The word has Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17838	Along with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. This amendment aims to extend the chain consisting of downloading, collecting and sorting, temporary storage of packaging waste, with a term of transport. There are cases where it's necessary for packaging waste to be transported to a temporary warehouse at all. As a result, we believe that it is good to provide for by law, a team before it is provided for as an obligation in Article 48(6), so it would be normal for it to be provided for in Article 19(1) itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17839	Thank you. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17840	Thank you, Madam President. One suggestion, before I move on to the explanation of this amendment. I think it's a good practice that when you announce amendments, you say the government's position and the Committee's position, so there's no confusion and those who listen to or watch this and, in general, to us who should participate in the discussion. I'm saying this more for the public. My amendment to the Bill on Biocidal Products has been accepted by the Government and the competent committee and that is the only reason I did not participate in the interpretation because it became an integral part of the bill. As regards the amendment to Article 24. The proposal for a law on packaging and packaging waste, the purpose of this amendment, is that no producers, importers, chargers and suppliers are excluded from liability in accordance with the law, and that all public undertakings are responsible. We know that the law should enable greater environmental protection, reduce the creation and disposal of packaging waste and enable reuse and recycling of packaging, which, you will admit, is not a simple task at all. This is so much more important if it is known that between two and two and a half million tonnes of municipal waste are collected annually in Serbia, and most of the legal dumps in Serbia do not meet even the most basic conditions for protecting the environment, they occupy a growing and larger natural area, not to mention wild dumps. It is therefore necessary for the state to finally assume responsibility for waste management, not to transfer from one to another this responsibility. Citizens and utility companies, after all, and contaminants, together with the state, are part of the system that needs to do everything to ensure that the quantities are reduced, reused and recycled and, in the end, what is unusable to reject in such a way that it does not pollute the natural environment. So, you need to understand that waste is a resource, and that dump is the last solution. I hope the future moves of the Ministry will go that way. When it comes to packaging waste, we believe that our amendment helps and we invite you to reconsider the possibility of accepting this amendment. In any case, if you manage to implement what you wrote in the text of the bill, a certain result, I'm sure, will not be left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17841	Thank you. On Article 25, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Vladimir Milentijevic. Does Mr. Milentievich want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17842	Article 25 paragraph 3 reads: "A plan for the management of packaging waste, which brings the person in item 1 of this article for a period of five years... ". Me and my colleague, Mr. Arsen Djuric, in front of the DSS, have submitted an amendment that reads – the words "five years" are deleted and changed with the words "a year", explaining that it will be very difficult to establish the application and respect of this law. In particular, the first year will be difficult, so it is better to give permission in the beginning for a year and monitor and control during that period. After three years of law enforcement, it may be possible to extend the duration of the permit to five years, of course, with analysis and complete control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17843	Thank you. On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17844	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, there's been some mistake in making this amendment, I must admit, mine. Unfortunately, I only saw that mistake yesterday at the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. Namely, what's this about? Just because of the clarification, we, as members of the Committee on Environmental Protection, received a draft bill in time, so that the bill would come later. The amendment I wrote was still on the draft law, and you corrected it when you delivered it to the MPs, so it came to the fact that, practically, my amendment reads exactly the same way as the member of the law you proposed. In any case, I am glad that there is, at least to a minimum, a similar thought between the ministry and the MPs of the opposition and there is no need to convince you to accept this sinful amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17845	Thank you. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17846	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to the Bill on packaging and packaging waste, which I submitted in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia, refers to Article 43 of the Law, where a new sentence is envisioned after Article 1. Article 1 of this Article reads: "A manufacturer or importer of packaging or packaged goods, when placing on the market, pays a fee", and now, after point, a new sentence is added, which reads as follows: "The amount of compensation is determined according to the type of packaging materials and products for which packaging materials are used". This sentence, in practice, complements attitude 1 and closely regulates conditions that will determine the amount of compensation, which is normally determined by the Government. In essence, the determination of heights is an incentive measure that should encourage, above all, producers, to re-use, or to use new technological processes from materials that are ecologically and biodegradable. In this way, using these methods and stimulating action on producers would reduce the impact, i.e. eliminate the risk of adverse environmental impacts and human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17847	Thank you, Professor Knezevic. To the title above the member and to Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17848	The DSS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 45(2). We have changed it, and it should read: "The bail in Article 1 position cannot be less than 10% or more than 30% of the price of the chemical placed in packaging." This definition of attitude 2 is perfectly clear, it refers to all kinds of packaging. According to the DSS, it is unnecessary and excessive for the minister to set bail for certain packaging, indeed, without personal contact with Mr Oliver Dulic. We think that the minister's going to have to set bail for anyone who speaks to him can create chaos. In fact, all those who are not satisfied in any way will address the minister and he will have to set bail especially for everyone. So we wanted to avoid the chaos in this part, and that's why we've proposed an amendment just like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17849	Thank you. On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 55. The proposal for a law on packaging and packaging waste, in paragraph 2, states that the manufacturer, the importer, the parking charger and the supplier should ensure the management of packaging waste within 18 months of the date of entry into force of this law. With this amendment, we propose that the deadline be 12 months, because 18 months is too long, which would only increase Serbia's delay for countries in the region, and the EU also gives 12 months to the industry to adapt to these regulations. An analysis of other countries' experiences shows that it is necessary to go with a shorter deadline than proposed, in order to achieve the objectives achieved by the legislators. It is mainly companies, I mean investors and buyers of our businesses, so those who participate in the privatisation process of our businesses, who come from EU countries and who need to know which regulations they expect, because we are harmonising our legislation, as you say, with EU legislation. I want to believe it honestly. There should be no bigger problems and there should be objections to such a solution. In any case, whether or not we accept this amendment, the most important thing is that, after the adoption of this law, this area is regulated in practice, the conditions that packaging must meet and manage packaging waste, in order to protect the environment in which we all live, and tomorrow our children should live without being covered by waste because of someone's irresponsible behaviour. That's why I think 12 months is enough for all adjustments to the conditions of such an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17851	Thank you, Mr. Zankov. On Article 55, amendments were submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 55, amendments were submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr Minister, the amendment to Article 55 paragraph 1 of point 5 is similar to the amendment of counterpart Zankov. It shall relate directly to the time limits, to the placing of a notice at the packaging, which the manufacturer, i.e. the importer or the filler, is obliged to place. The bill states that the deadline is 18 months, and the amendment I have submitted replaces those 18 months with 12 months. In any case, it is clear that a certain time limit is needed to meet all the conditions necessary for the implementation of this procedure, however, due to a great delay in the adoption of this law, Serbia lags behind the countries in the region. I think that, of all the laws necessary for EU accession, a good part of the area of environmental protection is even one-third. The minister could correct me if I'm wrong. As I said, I think one third of the laws are important for EU accession in the field of environmental protection, but it is not enough just to pass legislation, it must also be applied in practice. For example, the EU has given its 12-month-old industry a deadline to adapt to this law, while Croatia has only given four months and has already achieved some results in this area. I believe that everything that Croatia can do in four months, Serbia can do in three months, but the deadline of 12 months is more than enough, as we in Vojvodina would say, to slowly and ladenly implement this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17853	Thank you. On Article 56, amendments were submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17854	Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to fix this law by eradicating Article 56 of Section 2. When you look at what a 56th member looks like, it's quite logical that both of the positions in that article should be coherent. It is quite clear what is meant to be said in paragraph 1, but paragraph 2 says, literally, that the packaging produced prior to the entry into force of this law, which is the law of the short regulatory period of entry into force, after publication in the "Official Messenger", is soon, therefore, not in line with the basic requirements that packaging must meet for placing on the market, can be in circulation for two years. We wanted to change that possibility by amendment and cut the time to 12 months. By acting on the laws, we are trying to change what the government has no particular sensitivity for, and these are citizens' problems, private problems, entrepreneurs' problems, any type of property to be found, state, social or private, so that we can help not bring them into some worse situation than the one they are in. It is quite logical to expect, at least when it comes to one-time packaging, that there will be no supplies, since it is mainly imported, even the biggest chargers, such as "Knjiza Miloša", imports of packaging from neighbouring countries. It is completely irrational to expect that someone will introduce packaging in two years and thus affect the effects of this law. However, if such a circumstance is made by law, then it can act incentivically on someone to do so, because, in accordance with the recommendations of Article 15 on the powers that the minister has and which the law gives, it can be added to the labels or additional interventions to stick to the existing labels and markings on packaging. That would mean two things, that if someone imported the packaging and had it longer than they should, they would have to pay the Ministry to adapt it, stick it to the sticker and put it in a state as defined, say, Article 15, or they would have to send a message to the packaging manufacturer to print it in advance and make it more expensive. Then no one will be motivated to buy the packaging in advance for two years to have it on the lager if they give it a bill of law. We think that although it will be somewhat more expensive, it should set the law so as not to force the accelerated subsequent imports of material, it is repromaterial, or consumer goods, part of what it will produce, rather than going into law enforcement procedure quickly and efficiently enough, for which it is quite sufficient and reasonable measure for a year. Of course, this much less applies to reverse packaging, which is most often made of other materials that can be reused, so the problem is that two years of return packaging is unlikely, but with additional labels, it can change its content, give certain instructions, what the minister prescribes in Article 15, Article 15, if he wants to regulate the behaviour on the packaging market and packaging waste by law, as he himself predicted here. Of course, we can always doubt that. Where there's an importer and there's a charger, so it's not the same person, it's the same private person, it's two completely separate companies, two different natural or legal persons, there's always a possibility of making deals to calculate and fit into such a large deadline. That is why we think that this amendment should be accepted, because nothing fundamentally changes the position of the first member, and it would make a significant contribution to improving and effective control of what the law intends to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17855	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Dear fellow Members of the People, allow me to inform you that there are representatives of SO Loznica at the gallery, so that I may welcome them on your behalf and on my behalf. They wanted to attend part of the session. There are former MPs here, so we welcome everyone. After we've completed a search of the bill in particular, I ask if anyone else who hasn't used their right to comply with the Rules of Procedure would like to speak? The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17856	What is very important, and also the previous point, which I thought would come forward immediately after the debate was concluded in particular, is to fill in the information, so we expect Mr. Minister to eventually discuss in detail this set of laws to specify the information. So what we found today is information that 1,000 tons of hazardous waste is located in factories that don't work, that there are no financial resources for the disposal or destruction of this waste. Also, out of about 500 Serbian companies using dangerous substances, 150 are located in Belgrade, and many are located in populated parts of the capital. You'll admit that this, in the perspective, could be a serious environmental problem. About 25 plants operate in hazardous substances, therefore, in large quantities, which require a special embossed risk assessment and a chemical accident plan. We don't think something like this has been done, but the minister will correct us, I suppose, at the end of the debate. Also, no existing plant in which hazardous substances are used has yet to meet the conditions for an integrated work permit confirming that they are completely safe. The deadline for obtaining a permit is 2015. What until then? The factories that are just being built won't, we're afraid, have obstacles to being placed in populated environments, and this is really a problem that, perhaps, in the first place, concerns local environments. Anyway, urban plans predict where factories can be built, in part, this has nothing to do with your portfolio, but in perspective it can. But we know what the situation is on the ground and that mostly urban regulations are not respected, that family households are being built where they're not supposed to be, so you can have an environmental problem, because in the perspective, it can be a factory that, for example, will stop working, and there's a waste that doesn't know what it's going to be. So they don't have the men or the means to solve it. I think it's a serious problem that the ministry of resolution should deal with, so, eventually, with the Ministry of Local Self-Government or some other resolution ministry, pre-warn something like this. What's recognizable for the city of Shabac, and as far as the Zorka factory is concerned, is that, in fact, it hasn't worked for years, but the potential dangers represent chemicals that are stored in completely ruined plants, tanks and pipelines. Some of the facilities are located along the Sava River. What we haven't talked about, and I think it's also a significant problem, is that these capacities are often targeted by thieves and what these people in Shappac are concerned about is that they can be the victims of the incidents, for example, like a local accent, or the one from 1986 when a state of emergency was declared in town because of the uncontrollable outflow of ammonia. It happened once, it could happen again. The Zorki Sabbath is now located about five and a half thousand tons of concentrated sulphuric acid, which is stored in the underground tanks. It is used to produce mineral fertilisers. Since one number of employees has been employed in the factory, the situation is so much under control. However, the latent danger exists. The factories that are privatized, such as Zorka Kolor, Zorka Keramika, Zorka Farm, have elaborated on the environmental impact assessment and risk of chemical accidents and, political correctness, should be noted that this particular part of the findings is a radio-republic environmental inspector. However, what they are experience concerns the deposit of linden waste located in the middle of Belgrade. The knowledge that should be taken into account is that toxicology teams intervened up to 100 times a year, that every day companies are closing down dangerously in the environment. To remind me once again that more than 100 industrial plants are located in Belgrade, a multimillion-dollar city. These industrial plants are using, or storage dangerous materials. In all Serbia's territory, to repeat, there are about 440 of them. What is the problem of illegal storage in Serbian plants? Inadequate transport, unprofessional handling of flammable and toxic substances, which have led to a series of incidents over the past few years. The result, and I draw attention to these very examples, because this is a very serious problem, is that some people have lost their lives because of it. We'd like to hear what's going on as an idea to prevent situations like this. In factory halls, for example, carbon disulfide, pyrene, vinyl chloride, which is stored in inadequate conditions, where the slightest mistake can cause disaster. Just to remind you, in an explosion at the First Spark factory in Baric, 2006, three people died because there was inadequate handling. In the fire that broke out at the password factory Viskoza, one of the workers died. An explosion in Zemun's "Fitopharmace" and a turnover of a car with 45 tonnes of propan-butane in Belgrade's Padinska Skele settlement in February 2008 are the most noticeable environmental incidents, unfortunately, with tragic consequences. What we don't know about, what we don't have feedback on, is who was responsible for this and how they responded to these incidents. What Mr. Milan Milutinovic, head of the Ecotoxicology Service of Belgrade, argued, is interesting to hear as representatives of the ministry, as well as Mr. Minister, is that every report from the field is sent by experts to the Institute to the MUP, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Health, but has never received feedback on the results of the investigation, except for calls from the court to testify in some cases. It's been seven minutes. Thank you. I see. Let me just finish my sentence. That's all we wanted to hear and get qualified information, i.e. feedback from Mr. Minister today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17857	In accordance with Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask the motionor's representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, would he like to give the final word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17858	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the final word, this is the answer to several of the most important questions that are open here. I'd go in a row. First, I thank you for a good debate. I think that all of you MPs, of course, wanted with the best intention of handing over the amendments and the Ministry accepted a considerable number of amendments and thus showed how, in fact, we should make good laws and how we need to work together, creating a consensus on these important issues, above all, affect our citizens and change what is most difficult to change, and that is the awareness of people about the environment. Today is Planet Earth Day. On today, I'm sure each of you will think carefully about what he's done with his activity to make our planet look what it looks like. We can say that today is Planet Earth Day, but today is just one day of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. During today, about thirty locations in Serbia will be dealt with in particular, physically, by the environmental problems our country faces, and I invite you all to take action in "Let's Clean Serbia" and thus, and in your personal part, show concern for the environment that you have shown in a very nice and correct way, verbally, in this discussion. Several sets of questions were asked, and I would first of all answer the MP Marina Ragush. Thank you. You, citing exactly the examples that have occurred and which, unfortunately, have been agents, gave a great cause for our claims that it was necessary for these laws to be passed as soon as possible, to be brought in the way they were brought in, to combine something that should be a systemic concern about the environment, but also a very rigorous criminal policy. It may be good that they are up on the balcony of people coming from Loznica, as one of the cities in which one of these facilities is located, where there is a very toxic carbon disulfide in large quantities, which was once a segment of the production process in Viskoza, and today represents dangerous chemical waste. I have to tell you one thing, there's no way we can solve this issue unless we implement what our intention is, which is to find adequate locations at least temporarily, and then permanently store, neutralize or remove this hazardous waste. This ministry is working on it, and I urge you to back me up on it. At the moment we are working on a location in Serbia where there will be a permanent facility for storage and neutralisation of hazardous waste. Until that moment, in collaboration with the Serbian Army, we will find a location where these types of waste will be stored temporarily, not only of waste stored today in factories that unfortunately do not work anymore, but also of waste that daily our inspections find at the end of the roads, where people leave it and whose origin we do not know, which poses a great danger to the environment. If you list locations where there are potential environmental hazards, then let's all stand together behind the need for a system solution, and the only system solution is to find an adequate location. Why am I telling you this? Because yesterday in the Committee on Environment, the MP from the party from which you come has criticised the Ministry for wanting to remove the plant for the permanent storage of hazardous waste in one of the municipalities of the region from which it comes and where we had to explain that this waste is being handled in a systematic manner, i.e. it is being handled using technologies that are according to the highest EU standards. The facility is built from the money the EU is giving us at the moment. The plant does not process carcinogenics or substances that can permanently destroy the environment. There's no burning in the plant. The facility does not have any contact with air, water and land, does not produce permanent pollution, but, precisely for day-to-day policy reasons, there are obviously groups of people who want to defuse this action of the Ministry, arguing otherwise, arguing what is false. It is very important, when it comes to the environment, that we act together and speak the truth. The truth is very important, and when each of us presents facts concerning the health of the people and the future of our children, it must be very precise and accurate, because I repeat again, these areas are areas based on very clear scientific rules, these are areas which and how the public is interested and very easily manipulated. I'm sure none of you are in the interest of manipulating the environment. You asked about funding all these projects. At the moment, the Ministry of Finance is in the business of permanent storage, i.e. solving problems in Viskoza, in negotiations with the SO and the Municipality of Loznica and from its funds finance the problem. I hope that this storage of carbon disulfide will be removed from the Viskoza factory to an adequate location and that we will also solve this problem in this way, but this applies to all other cities in Serbia. It is quite true, 440 locations exist in Serbia at the moment. I must tell you that I am very happy that you are using data that the Ministry has just published and published, because our policy from the very beginning has been to fully open up to the public everything that is a potential threat to the environment and everything that is the truth about the state of the environment, not that we are trying to cover it up. All the data you used today in the debate are data that the Ministry has allowed you to use, because it puts them on its site, or publishes them in the media, or through the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, the open story of the problem of garbage, dumps and the impact on the environment of everything that has been our concern in the past decades. That's why it's important that we talk together about accurate data, especially when it comes to hazardous waste. Since this ministry is also responsible for the environment and spatial planning, which, in my view, is a good combination, because it allows for a joint, in a systematic way, to deal with the space and position of the environment in Serbia, we will certainly see that in the future, as regards the location of regional dumps and locations of factories, in the end, and through strict respect for the new law on planning and construction, I hope that it will be quick in front of you, the MPs, and in the law on the assessment of the impact on the environment and everything that is the legislation that defines the area, we try to prevent what was going on in the past from the settlement, and that there are no plants that have been allowed to work without adequate procedures for the assessment of the environment and that we have the need today or to move out the factory or to move out the citizens, that we have chronic environmental problems in many of Serbia. There have been a lot of stories about strategy and waste management and advice to make this ministry do something more about waste management. In the next few months we will present a new strategy for waste management, this strategy will replace the existing strategy that came into force in 2003, which will define and address all the problems that you have brought here today, which are the real problems of our region. It will involve different types and streams of waste and ways of managing waste, ways in which we will organise a regional system of municipal dumps. By this law, this ministry cannot solve the problems defined by other laws, first of all, the Law on Community Works and the Law on Local Self-Government, which defined the competences of local self-government for the management of municipal waste. When someone tells us – don't get out of the way and transfer everything to the local environments, we do it because it's their legal jurisdiction, and in the future, since we're in charge of it, we intend to change the Law on Community Works and bring into it everything that is a newspaper regarding better coordination and co-operation of the Ministry and local self-government, when it comes to waste management. In the end, just to resolve a dilemma that existed about the Agency and the Ministry's co-operation. You are right that the Agency is an expert body which is involved in the creation of databases and in the management of what is data on the state of the environment. However, when the Ministry issues a permit, it has an obligation to receive data from applicants for authorisation and to keep those data with it, forwarding them to the Environment Agency for processing and processing, for the purpose of issuing an environmental impact assessment, which is done every year. It's the Ministry that has to monitor and control those whose licenses have been issued. That's the answer to a set of your amendments that should have transferred some of the jurisdiction to the Agency. It's not the Agency's jurisdiction under the law established by the Agency, it's certainly the Ministry's jurisdiction. For the very end, the question is: Who will finance the recovery of our environment? It will be financed by the Ministry of Environment, the Environmental Protection Fund. You have just confirmed the need, these laws are now coming into debate, that the way the environmental tax redistribution is defined in the way the Ministry has proposed, because the Environment Fund needs more resources to solve problems that are not only related to the environmental situation of local self-government, but also to the environmental conditions of the region in which these particularly problematic points are located. I must say that most of the funds in the future will come from EU funds, as has been the case in all other countries that were in the EU accession process, not only the means to open up the storage and neutralisation plant of hazardous waste, but also the means to clean up the environment, clean up our rivers, air, land, everything that has been polluted in the past for many reasons. I thank you once again, and I hope to discuss with the following points this second set of very important laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17859	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your systematic and reasonable answers. You didn't use it, it should have been before the minister, but go ahead. If I realize I'm violating the Rules of Procedure by giving you my word, we'll see what happens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17860	Thank you, Madam President. It's not a replica. We understand this message, between the Ministry and the Environment Agency. We simply pointed out that not to be the Agency's Ministry of Service, but to be the other way around. It is the agency that should do all this, prepare and deliver data to the Ministry, not that the Ministry collects data, so it delivers them to the Agency; it is the reverse process. That's the whole point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17861	Thank you. I broke the Rules of Procedure, by giving you my word. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, allow me to conclude a review of the draft law in particular and to inform you that in the voting day we will decide on the draft law in principle, details and generality. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Life-Medituality (specificities) you have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments: Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Lazić, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Željko Tomić, Milos Aligrudić, Milan Avramović, Dragan Aćimović, Milorad Buha, Elena Bozic-Talijan, Lidija Vukić, Jadranko Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đokić, Srboljubović, Dragan Živić, Nikola Žutić, Radisa Žutić, Radisa Ilić, Vladjan Jerić and Jomarić. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Nikola Lazic withdrew the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you that according to the provisions of Article 143(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for the search in particular, is the same as the total time for the joint review of the Bill's proposal. Since the total time in the joint principled search was five hours, I find that the total time of debate in the particulars of the parliamentary groups is the following: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. On Article 2, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic, and he became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic and Zeljko Tomic, who became an integral part of the bill through the procedure. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milos Radulovic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted the amendment to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17862	We're in Article 5, that's the story Mr. Sasa Maksimovic has already told, i.e. Members of the Committee received laws when they were in the working version and therefore we had a lot of complications later, when we agreed that we had made amendments as worthy MPs. One such amendment is this to Article 5, that is, in fact, Article 10(3). We felt that he should be deleted, because we wanted to keep that solution that was in the previous law, and that solution was 10 days. One reason for amending and supplementing this law was to speed up the process in order to help investors. However, in Article 5, Article 10(3), the applicant extends the deadline within which the competent authority informs interested authorities, organisations and the public of the need for an impact assessment, from 10 to 15 days. In order to really speed up the process, and the fact is that it can take a long time, and to come out to meet investors, we felt that it was necessary to shorten that deadline, or leave it at that time that was given, for 10 days, and that it should not be extended for five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17863	Thank you. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17864	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely hope that the government is not proposing all these laws just to meet the conditions in the EU accession process, but because of the fact that Serbia is in danger of waste, which we have found in a recent debate. Besides, we'll see when you start applying, when these laws come into force, what your motives are, and whether it's true will and desire for our country to be more beautiful and purer. It doesn't have to remain a dead letter on paper. We'll see if your fight will be uncompromising, and you say that for one such fight, you need such laws, or you'll withdraw from the great contaminants, I mean industrial ones, first of all. We know what that looked like. When something bad happens in the environment, you start with a media campaign, to satisfy the public, and then slowly it quiets down, without concrete sanctions, turns into a long process that never, or rarely ends, and they continue their dirty work. Remember, for example, just one example, a sea of fish in the Timok River. Penalty policy in this area must be more rigorous, because the damage is not only present, but most often has far-reaching consequences, which are felt by future generations. Nobody and nothing can deny a man the right to live in a healthy environment, healthy water, healthy land and healthy air. This right is not easy to protect if we know that over two million tonnes of waste are produced annually in Serbia and there are at least 1,000 wild dumps. It is especially important to protect the origins and forests, as a national treasure of Serbia. Let's try to at least be equal in the quality of the environment, if the government is unable to ensure a balanced regional development in all parts of Serbia, to make everyone live in a nice and healthy environment, when the government is unable to use and upgrade it, so that citizens can live richer than that. On several occasions, you promoted an action called "Let's Clean Serbia". No more promotions. There's work to be done. The action should succeed, not turn into a single party's marketing action in power. Call all the respectable people who mean something in their neighborhood! On this subject, everyone can unite, to make one mass movement, which will become Serbia's most numerous environmental inspection. Everyone has to understand that we don't have much left after the 8-year-old DOS government and that we have to keep this, we can't sell this. I am pleased, Mr. Minister, that you have finally seen the problem of the dump on the regional road Paracin – Bolec, around which many have stuck their heads in the sand, next to the garbage that threatened to destroy on all sides the system of beautiful Rotja, which, among other things, has exceptional tourist potential. The waste from this dump, by the way, flies hundreds of meters in circles and brings us all great shame. You should also see the Black Timok River, along the same road, which is largely turned into a dump. I'd like to get some information on whether, say, in the part of Serbia where the Timok River is flowing, the police or anyone caught in the work of someone making waste out of the river? I'm asking the state to teach someone, literally, a lesson, if they need a great punishment. Keep on the watch day and night, if necessary, and publish it in all the media, put it on a pillar of shame. When some of the polluters come into a situation to earn the penalty for making waste from rivers, forests, when they do it for a few years, they'll probably stop with these uncivilizing and irresponsible moves. Amendments to Articles 84 and 85 of the basic law on environmental protection will be harmful to municipal budgets and there is a danger that payment, with large companies, will be transferred to citizens as well. This way, you punish those who behave responsibly, using these means. These others are likely to be all of these from taxes, which are now being reduced to the municipality fund, to compensate by increasing their local environmental tax and all that is going to happen, these are only greater burdens on the economy and citizens, globally, therefore, in the summation that they pay for the ecology. I think you've had a good chance of working on decentralisation here, which is what all the ministries and the entire government keep talking about, not doing the opposite. Any responsible authority in the units of local self-government, before anyone else, will take care of the environment in their territory, of course, in collaboration with the ministry, which, primarily, would solve major environmental problems. We are all aware that the economic situation is difficult, that the first victim of such a situation is, unfortunately, the environment, but I think it takes a lot of enthusiasm here, what I was telling you earlier, to change the consciousness of all people, which would allow a million micro-prices, maltenes, to make the situation more significant. That's why I think it's good for the ecological culture to promote the system of education, as a mandatory or academic subject at school, and you've announced some of it, if I understand correctly. An example of ecological irresponsibility that I would like to point out now, I would say, at the highest level, to the state, is related to the village of Vrazagrnac, it is a suburban settlement of Zaječar, with about 2,000 inhabitants, which is one of the most threatened settlements in Serbia. There is a river that is, in fact, an open collector of very toxic waters, with heavy metals and other waste, which, apart from poisoning, melts and seals the riverbeds, which poses a constant risk of water spilling and creating an ecological disaster. In the waters of the Borska Reka, the sewerage of the city of Bora is also released, indicating the extent of human negligence and irresponsibility towards natural resources and the preservation of the environment. The technology process for the processing of copper in Bor was followed by the extraction of large quantities of waste water, which are released into the waterway of the Borska River. With these wastewaters, a large amount of sulphuric acid and heavy metals is released several times the maximum allowed, according to positive regulations. In the village of Vrazagranac, only from the Borska river near the mouth in Timok, about 700 hectares of the most fertile land, which is 1.5 hectares per land. Because of the above conditions, the people of the Virgin do not have the basic conditions to organise agricultural production, which threatens their existence and reduces their ability to earn some money in these difficult times. Unfortunately, there are neither valid programmes nor resources nor the responsibility of contaminants and authorities to stand in the way of further pollution of the Borska river, regulate the riverbed and access the revitalisation of poisoned areas and ensure that locals remain in these areas. Privatisation, which is the basic motive why I now highlight this problem, first of all, RTB, requires a clear definition of our problems and their resolution, compensation and so on. What you did not report and prove to be a difficult ecological heritage from the pre-privitation period, the state will not recognise as its commitment to resolve in the future. On this occasion, I won't have time to talk about the forest mafia of newly-roasted businessmen, who must be eliminated immediately. On the other hand, we are far from many modern trends, such as heating from dumps, which are multiple useful because it reduces environmental pollution and generates energy savings from other sources of heat. To get to that, but also because of everything I've been talking about, I'm asking that the environmental laws immediately, therefore, without a long transition period, come into force, not just on paper, but in practice, I'm potential, because the consequences of irresponsibility are irreparable. There must be no vacuum in the transitional period, during which dirty technology from the West would be transferred to Serbia. Some of you may recall the recycling of tires from Western Europe, which, before Bulgaria's entry into the EU, is one of the most dirty technologies, moved, minority, to the centre of Sofia, because it was more expensive for them to shut down or change technology, and poor countries, like ours, justify it from several new jobs, not asking for the other price to be paid, which is absurd. So we can't act like one. I support all your actions that go in the direction I was talking about, that our advantage – clean water, soil and air are not sold, but that we use this advantage in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17865	Thank you. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17866	Dear President, we have received notice that this DSS amendment has been accepted and we express our satisfaction, but it is time to say something my colleague, Mrs Milica Vojic-Markovic, mentioned an hour and a half ago. It is an appointment and the work of the board at the time of the National Assembly session, when the laws are being discussed. I'll illustrate it with one example. Yesterday, at a session of the Committee on Environmental Protection, we had no opinion of the Government on the draft air protection law. The board was held today. We had to sit there and defend the amendments. We don't know the fate of these amendments, what the government has accepted, what it isn't. It's an unacceptable way of working. You can't be in two places at the same time. We have to coordinate that way, otherwise, it completely loses its meaning. I once again express my gratitude to the wisdom of the government for accepting our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17867	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. Members Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the amendment to Article 14, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 17, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, through procedure. On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and in the whole. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – PROPOSITION OF THE ZAŠTI VAZDUHA (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Boris Aleksić, Dragan Aćimović, Milan Avramović, Milan Vjevnović, together, Željko Tomić, Arsen Đurić and Zoran Nikolić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Lidija Dimitijević, Slobodan Vuković, Jovan Damjanović, Jadranka Privović, Jadranka Žuković, Miljan Živić, Radjan Jeremić, Zoran Krasić, Nataša Jovanović, Radiša Ilic, Petar Jojić, Ljubmir Marić, Ljubovar Kražažanović, Dragović, Dragović, Mirjan Živić, Radjan Živić, Radjan Živić, Radjan Živić, Radić, Radić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladjan Žić, Vladić, Vladjan Žić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić, Vladjan Žcić, Zadjan Žcić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Mirdić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zak Kramić, Zadić, Zadić, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak. National MP Gordana Comic withdrew the amendment she submitted to Article 50. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Arsen Đuric and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17868	DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2), where, after saying "disasters", they add the words "which are governed by other laws". I will now read as it says in the proposal: "The provisions of this law do not apply to pollution caused by radioactive matter, industrial accidents and elemental disasters." So we think that behind the words "disasters", we should add the words "which are governed by other laws", simply to emphasize this in this article, because we will adopt, we have already discussed in principle the laws, the laws where this matter will be regulated, but we think that these words are also in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17869	Thank you. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Veselinovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Milorad Buha, Branimir Djokic and Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Prime Minister Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17870	I'm sorry about this, but the real problem was that I was late. Therefore, an explanation for the amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, of course, you have it in front of you. Unfortunately, the amendment has not been adopted, with a well-known explanation. However, in the time foreseen to explain this amendment, it would be necessary to hear, and we have not heard from Mr. Minister, as well as the other members of this bill, an assessment of the environmental pollution funds created during the period of NATO aggression. I have the impression that the resolution ministry, however, is avoiding the answer to this question, because the answer to this question is official and is pulling some official reactions on the subject. On the basis of all the analyses, we have found and come to the conclusion that no assessment of this environmental impact has ever been made by NATO members using chemical, biological and radioactive weapons in all possible conventions. During the reasoning of further members of this law, which we consider to be of paramount importance to the state of Serbia, we will discuss this in more detail. We expect Mr. Minister, at the end of the debate in detail on this set of laws, to give us more precise information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17871	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17872	Given that you have an amendment and an explanation, I would not waste time explaining this amendment, but it is very important to read Article 4, because of the public. Therefore, he foresees the amendment of Article 16, which is changed and reads: "A legal and physical person who degrades the environment is obliged to remediate or otherwise re-suscitate the degraded environment, in line with the projects of rehabilitation and remediation. The project referred to in Article 1 shall be agreed upon by the Ministry. The Minister in charge of environmental affairs prescribes a methodology for the construction of projects for the recovery of the remediation, except for projects for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, which are governed by special regulations." I've been meaning to read... Do I read a good member? Oh, no? (President: The second is the law. ) I apologize, given that I have time at my disposal as far as this particular area is concerned, what would be necessary to know is how this member will apply to the period of NATO aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17873	I thank you, although it's another law, not just another member. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17874	I'm sorry, to be honest, this really looks like a Sotby auction. I moved the whole law because of the speed of reading. I am truly sorry to the Serbian public, and I would ask you only a little slower to read, and the other colleagues have a problem with passing all these laws and amendments. What I have remained in debt, I announce that I will use the time foreseen for the Parliament Group, is also an example. Since I can't talk about a concrete amendment, my colleagues are not here, I'm going to make an adequate effort to participate in the debate on the details of this law. So again official data from the competent environment ministry and spatial planning. It's here, actually, the control and surveillance sector. It is the date of March 10th 2009, and is signed by the Republic's environmental inspector Jelena Stankovic and it is about Pančev. Speaking of air protection, what should the representatives of the ministry explain to us, is, how will this bill treat the environment, specifically, air, in terms of reducing the pressure on air? In view of this finding in 2008, based on a contract with the municipality administration of Pančevo, the Public Health Institute measured air pollution in the town of Pančevo in two additional places: The shooting point, for those who do not know, is where the health station is located, and the New Mass, i.e. Gornjačka 21. Based on the results of the measurements, and yet based on the official report by the Public Health Institute Panchev, in 2008, it can be seen that the most significant part of Pančev's air pollution is chaja, suspended particles and ammonia. The presence of tea in the air of Pancheva is a decades-long problem, especially during the warm season. In 2008, average annual concentrations are the same, or approximately the same in all measured places. With that in mind, what we should hear from the Ministry's representative is how do you think you can solve this problem of air pollution when it comes to sorcery in Panchev? Also, in some places pollution is bigger than elsewhere, and this is a problem that lasts for more than a decade. Also, the number of days with levels of soot in the air is above the limit value and mission in all places that have been exposed to measurements. In all measured places, the average levels of soot are significantly higher in the winter than in the summer period, but, of course, all the citizens of Pancheva breathe in. In addition, the total suspended particles in air pollution in Pančev significantly participated in 2008. Based on official data that we had the opportunity to consult, which was done by the resolution ministry, looking at the ratio of samples taken and the number of days with the concentrations of the total suspended particles, threatening for health, at the measuring site of the Arrow, what can be found is that the health of the Panchev population is at risk of high concentrations of this polluter about 20% of the day a year. I know this is a very complex problem in the resolution of air pollution, and therefore the resolution of health problems that are numerous in Pancheva territory, but in the first place, I am interested in how this bill will be enforceable right on Pancheva territory, which are the financial resources defined to solve this problem? I assume you also have an analysis of the effects of pollution, as well as the economic parameters of the level of air pollution in Panchev. The largest number of days with an air quality index refers to the threat of highly sensitive populations. The inspector's findings, i.e. The number of days in which these concentrations are very unhealthy for the health of the overall population. Compared to the previous year, when the threat was about 75% of the year, the situation still seems much more favourable, but the problem remains. Since March 2008, based on trends used in the world to track suspended particles of smaller sizes, which are more health-threatening, for sampling suspended particles, Panchevo Institute of Public Health has introduced a new device, which is vacuuming particles to a certain size. I avoid, on purpose, professional expressions, to make it clearer to the general public, but this is not a problem that only Panchevo has, but it is a problem that can also apply to all other metropolis territories. Also, suspended particles and soot are responsible for many harmful health effects in humans, especially among vulnerable population groups, such as chronic patients, children, old and pregnant women, the most endangered part of the population, as has also been demonstrated in medical science and expertise. These effects may have been acute at some point, however, are now recording the trend of chronic health problems of Panchev's resident. The adverse acute effects of particles on health are seen in an increased number of respiratory diseases in the exposed population, as well as in the worsening of existing respiratory diseases. The greatest sensitivity is manifested by chronic patients, in whom worsening of underlying diseases requires additional treatment, including hospital intervention by emergency medical services. The ammonia was recorded in the previous year at a lower concentration compared to the average concentration in 2007. Analysis of the health air quality index for ammonia shows that the year has been something more favourable, but the problem remains. As for benzene, after many years and many measures taken by the competent institutions, in both places, the concentration of benzene was within the envisaged standards, however, what is seen by this official report by the Republic environmental inspector, Mrs Stankovic, is that the problem of air pollution is significant in the territory of the Pancheva municipality, so it would not be too burning to hear how you think to implement what was otherwise the obligation of the state, on the basis of Article 97 itself. The constitution, which is that it regulates the environment, namely, that it also affects the press that is happening, say, at locations already depicted as black dots? How, then, is it thought that the health of people who are directly threatened by such a poor quality of air, and the air is a theme? In some later points, we will also talk about other parts of Panchev territory that are also at risk, and all in the context of gaining a more accurate picture of air pollution in Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17875	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. We finished our morning work. I'm setting a break by 3:00, and then we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in detail on amendments to the bill. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Please register in the electronic system. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17877	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of the time of the Parliament Group and, as I did yesterday, to talk about the second set of environmental laws. I am very sorry that the debate on such an important topic, such as ecology, debate in particular, is going on in this manner. On the one hand, there is little interest in MPs, and on the other hand, those who possibly follow the session have the impression that we are flying through a lot of amendments. I would like to stress that on these six draft laws that we are discussing have arrived, by my numbers, 504 or 505 amendments. Of which, the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted 67. Here we are discussing more than 400 amendments, of course, with respect for the constructive opposition, which wants to improve the bill's proposals. That's why the government adopted some. On the other hand, I wanted to use the time to put forward the views of the Minority Club and the SVM on these remaining six laws, since we talked yesterday about seven draft laws on the topic of environmentalism. We all know that the environmental impact assessment is one of the basic, preventive measures, and according to the bill, i.e. amendments to the Law on environmental impact assessment. This assessment should be based on a feasibility study and an analysis of alternative, better solutions, which would not pose such a threat to the environment. The reason why the existing environmental impact law is changed is that it wanted to be more globally, to regulate the whole system, i.e. the role of different actors in the environmental impact assessment process, the different regulation of their rights and obligations, as well as their mutual relations. The next draft law on the agenda is a law on environmental protection, which we consider a roof law. The aim of its adoption is to protect the environment, natural resources and human health. We'll agree, probably, that nature protection is one of the basic areas when it comes to ecology and environmental protection. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing that the natural habitat is constantly getting worse and there are constant threats to certain species of wild flora and fauna, so this should be one of the burning issues that we are dealing with when we talk about this topic. The aim of the adoption of laws on the protection of nature is to protect and preserve, maintain, improve the diversity of different species, bring human activities into line with certain use of renewable and non-renewable natural resources, with long-term conservation of natural ecosystems and, most importantly, natural balances. Special attention is paid to the protection and conservation of wild plant species and animals, especially the preservation of migratory species and habitats. As I have already pointed out at the outset, I believe that the law on the protection of conservation, the management of natural values is not only a request, but the need of each individual and should show his relationship to nature. It should work to ensure full harmony between man and his activities, on the one hand, but it is also a significant preservation of nature and its values, on the other hand. The bill that we are currently talking about, which has been proposed more than 100 amendments, is a bill on air protection. The aim of its adoption and application is to identify and achieve measures in the field of protecting and improving air quality, in order to prevent, of course, it is impossible to prevent everything, but at least reduce the adverse consequences, both in human health and in the environment. The aim is to improve and preserve air quality, to prevent pollution affecting ozone damage and climate change, which is now on the threshold, or at the beginning of the 21st century, one of the burning problems. We are all aware of the global climate change, the damage to the ozone layer, by seeing that today, in late April, there is no spring anymore. The measures proposed to prevent and reduce air pollution and improve its quality are the regulation of the emission levels of polluting substances, limit values, as well as the permitted amount of individual pollutants in certain products, what we were talking about when adopting Kyoto protocol, several months ago, or confirmation, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, development and use of new and clean technologies, encouraging the use of renewable energy sources, etc. The last draft law that I wanted to mention briefly, it seems to me that it was the longest discussion when we talked about these bill proposals in principle, is the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. This proposal regulates issues such as protection, catch, use and transport of fish and conditions for carrying out economic, recreational, sports, as well as fishing for scientific and research purposes and electro-fishing, and, most importantly, improving the efficiency of surveillance of illicit operations. This sets out the prohibitions of certain activities in the fishing area, but also concrete measures for the conservation of ecosystems, fishing waters, in the form of bans on the release of harmful and dangerous substances, which have been very little thought about so far. According to this law, the transport of fish may be carried out by producers, entrepreneurs, companies registered for the transport of fish, as well as by companies and entrepreneurs engaged in commercial fishing. This would mean that associations, sports organisations, recreationals and citizens cannot put fish caught on the market, which we see as positive and significant. As I said yesterday, I would now like to stress that SVM and the Minority Parliament Club, in voting day, will support these bill proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17878	Before we continue the discussion in detail, I shall inform the National Assembly, based on Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will be working after 18 hours, and until the debate on the agenda point is over, which at that time is the subject of debate. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Please register in the system. On Article 13, here you are, MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17879	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia has tabled several amendments to the proposal for a law on air protection. Most of the amendments, as well as the amendments submitted to Article 13 of the Law, refer to the change in the work of the Ministry to be transferred to the Agency. In Article 13, paragraphs 3 and 4, the Agency is replaced by the word – Ministry. Today, when there is a major crisis, when the government is preparing measures to alleviate the crisis, there is a need to cut budget spending. Serbia's budget is overloaded by numerous ministries, ministerial assistants, advisers and agencies, and I find it unnecessary that the jobs it can and should be carried out by the ministry are transferred to the Agency. I am not talking about firing the administration, as suggested by the Serbian government, with its own measures, which we will discuss, instead of firing, it is necessary to increase the efficiency of the administration, because, by firing employees, the government will further deepen the crisis and create an even bigger army of unemployed and thus lead Serbia into a break-in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17880	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Radica Jocic and Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 17 as a member of the SNS Parliamentary Group. The aim of this amendment is to fight SNS against a large number of agencies and large public spending. I want this opportunity to know that we currently have over 100 agencies in Serbia, that we have introduced another new agency with this set of laws, and that it is obvious that it is also starting to implement the SNS, which is for years now, in order to reduce public spending, by force of opportunity, the government. Unfortunately, in the previous period, by selling capital goods during the privatisation process, we spent these resources through the budget, i.e. through current costs, and now we are in a situation that has a material basis that we have far less than before. It is obvious that cutting public and personal expenditures is necessary. In any case, through this set of government laws that have been announced, which we will be able to discuss these days, we will be able to illustrate the position of the SNS, but the government has missed an opportunity, based on what it promotes in the media these days, which is a reduction in public spending, a reduction in administration, even a figure of nearly 8,000 people, that by adopting this amendment, it is obvious that we have too many institutions in the field of environment, that a functional analysis of the work of these institutions is necessary. I am sorry that there is not enough hearing for this amendment of mine and that the government has missed another chance that there is no difference between what it says and what it does. This way, by refusing these amendments, we've come to a situation where one can talk and the other is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17882	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 20 and to Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17883	In order to protect and improve the quality of air used by all living things, great efforts should be made to preserve and improve air quality. My amendment refers to Article 22(1) of the Air Protection Act, and he says so. First, I will say that the Government has proposed Article 22: "In a zone and/or agglomeration where the quality of air is found to be first category, preventive measures are implemented to prevent air pollution beyond limit values. ". My amendment differs very little in this and says, "In the zone and/or agglomeration where the quality of air is found to be the first category, preventive measures are carried out to prevent air pollution". So in areas where air quality is of the first category, no air pollution should be allowed. In areas where air quality is extremely good, where air is healthy, maximum measures must be taken to preserve the quality of that air. The Government must not allow these zones to worsen air quality or to limit values. The ministry must not allow in those areas where the air quality of the first category is access to any pollutants, even those who have little air pollution, or below the limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17884	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Arsen Đuric, Zoran Nikolic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17885	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 22, and the title above article 22 is – Protection and enhancement of air quality. This article provides for the implementation of certain measures in first, second and third categories of air, in order to prevent air pollution beyond limit values. However, the promoter did not foresee an authority that controls the implementation of the prescribed measures, so this amendment is directed in that direction. In practice, this amendment would add, in Article 22, a new position 4, which reads: "The competent authority for environmental protection tasks is controlling the implementation of the prescribed measures laid down in Article 1, 2 and 3 of Article 22 of this Law". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17886	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) I'm just asking you to register. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17887	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, since air pollution is an increasingly common phenomenon, it is necessary to supplement a member in 23 words: "sound signalling for chemical danger". Air pollution is a serious problem, and regulation by law that the public is only being notified through the media or otherwise inappropriate. It should be taken into account that most people work, if pollution occurs during the day or night, so that there is no access to radio, television, or similar public messages. First of all, it is necessary to consider children who are in schools, where neither parents nor parents can protect them in due time because of the different availability of the media, i.e. unequal information about the occurrence of the damage. It is indisputable that sound signalling for chemical danger is the best and fastest way for all citizens to be informed in good time. Unfortunately, we are witnessing frequent sound signals for the chemical hazard that is being reported in Panchev and which in the most efficient way informs citizens of the increased concentration of harmful substances in the air. Of course, sound signalling does not mean that other types of notification should not be used, depending on the amount of concentration of harmful substances in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17888	On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17889	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the ministry, thank you for reading the amendments to the bill at a lighter and more moderate pace. In the morning part, it happened to me to come out for 10 minutes and let the whole law pass. I would ask you to continue, precisely because of the better monitoring of all amendments, keep that pace. I thank you in advance, for our presence, which is because of the Serbian public, who is really interested in this plenary session. The explanation of this amendment, too, you have. I'm going to use this time to explain the amendments that I'm about to say that it is necessary in real time to monitor air contamination of the most diverse particles, especially at the locations we've talked about during the afternoon work in detail, but it's also very important for all of us to know what the situation is with the air and what are the plans and activities in the period ahead. We, during this part of the debate in detail on a united set of environmental laws, will come up with certain economic parameters, which are based on expert analysis and which talk about the figures that are overly needed on an annual basis to address the effects of air contamination. So far, what's important to say is that these are the figures that go beyond even the real frameworks of looking at how, in the context of the financial crisis, the reduction in the positions of the budget, here, the rebalancing, the competent ministry and institutions will manage to resuscitate them and maintain a certain level of air quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17890	On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Milorad Buha and Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milan Veselinović, Radisa Ilic and Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Arsen Đuric, Zoran Nikolic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17891	Article 30. Position 1 regulates, or speaks of whom the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning submits a report on the implementation of the Strategy for Air Protection, so the bill provides for the ministry, once every three years, to be submitted to the Government. Since the Ministry and an integral part of the Government, which consists of other ministries, then it is a little illogical for the Ministry, in fact, to report to itself once every three years. In our amendment, we propose that attitude 1 be changed, so that it reads: "The report on the implementation of the Strategy for Air Protection of the Government, once in three years, is delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". We think that this solution is better and more logical, whether this report is discussed in the plural, which is rarely happening to us, because certain agencies and other executive bodies, or institutions, often submit a report to the National Assembly, so because we have a lot of work to do, we rarely have a chance to consider these reports, but this report – the Strategy of Air Protection – would be one in three years, as foreseen in the proposal, and how to consider it in the Committee on Ecology, if it is not possible in plenary. I think this amendment of ours is very good and logical and that Minister Dulic, on behalf of the government, could accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17892	On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17893	In Article 34(3), behind the words ‘domestics’, the words ‘allergenic pollen enlargement’ are added. It is an amendment that I have proposed that the amendment be continued logically, i.e. to amend the article in such a way as to be logical and in accordance with Article 12 of the same law, where the quality of air is taken into account and the measurement of allergenic pollen in the air. For several years we have been struggling with a really widespread disease – an allergy, which takes a serious situation, we can also say the situation of the epidemic. These very days we are witnessing that this spring allergy to pollen, which is present in the blooming of various plant species, is extremely present and extremely unpleasant. It is, as a medical disease, complicated, causing serious consequences, and indeed allergenic pollen must be treated as a serious air pollutant. In particular, they refer to the ambrosia plant, whose pollen comes in August. When this phenomenon of allergies is omass, in a way, we all witness that emergency services in all cities are then seriously intervened. Given that it is a plant that has been available for 39 to 40 years to preserve the leniency of seeds in unfavourable conditions and that it also appears after that and is a very resilient Korean plant, we have witnessed that all countries in the environment have become seriously affected by this problem, above all, by system solutions. I understand that there is no doubt in the ministry whether this should be the problem of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but the state must have a strategic solution to this problem. There is one phenomenon that has recently been observed, which is that the ambrosia plant can now be found even on Mount Tari, which shows seriously that this allergen plant has been severely poisoned, polluted. What are all the causes of the seed transfer of the ambrosia plant, we know, but in what way can we solve it, first of all, in our own atara, and then help countries in the environment, as they help us with their own system solutions? For example, last year, Croatia had a massive action to buy the ambrosia plant, at the state level, for anyone who brings it with roots, which means eradication. Anyone who brought the plant ambrosia with the roots was given a symbolic payment. That action gave serious results. We know that serious legal solutions have been made in Hungary and are being implemented, so I think this amendment, since it logically designs this member and relies on it for Article 12 of the same law, would be very acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17894	On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. And this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the international MPs Vuceta Toskovic and Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17895	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit an amendment to the draft air protection law. The amendment is that in Article 50, Section 8 of the word "Agency" is replaced by the word "Ministership". The shortest explanation would be – this job should be done by the Ministry, in order to do something more rational in the state administration. Politicians who deal with politics and who run this country should predict something in advance, at least in about 10 or 15 years; there would be no point in dealing with politics if they did not. Meteorologists predict the weather, as it will be today, tomorrow, some in 20, 50, and some in a year, astrologers -- catastrophes on the globe, and politicians should at least in about ten years' time predict what will happen to the state. The mortgage crisis that took place in America brought all of this to Europe, so it hooked us up. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is not stretching, but is a category that cannot stretch. There, ministers who lead this country, especially the finance minister, should predict what needs to be done. So, in the last eight years, many agencies have not had to be formed, so we wouldn't be discussing today whether the agency or the ministry is going to do the job. The air must be protected, regardless of whether it will be done by the agency or the ministry, because it is the first thing for the public. If we had agencies, directorates and such things in local self-government, I think the rationalisation of these budgets, as well as the budget of the Republic of Serbia, could not be done. We have a 70 billion deficit in that budget. It's impossible for all these agencies to shut down, because we've hired a lot of people in them, so it's impossible to quit or do some rationalization right now. I suggest, which is unlikely, that this is transferred to the Ministry, that this job is done by the Ministry. Given that I have an amendment to Article 67 in the same description, I would not like to, well, my little contribution, to report for the second time, just to mention that it is Article 67 of the 2nd and 3, the same explanation for that amendment, so I would like to confirm again that this air that is polluted must be protected and I suggest that it be transferred somehow to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17896	Thank you. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Vuceta Toskovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 68, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Predrag Mijatovic and Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 69, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17897	I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "ministration" in Article 70(2) of the "agency" in the name of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia and the SNS. Article 70 refers to the transmission and exchange of air quality data, and he says in his first position that the Ministry provides and exchanges data on air quality and emissions with international organisations and other countries, in accordance with certified international contracts. The ministry should also provide and exchange information with the European Environment Protection Agency and the European Network for Information and Observations. The air quality information system, as an integral part of the single environmental information system, should be run by the competent ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, without the need to form another agency. The SNS believes it is not necessary to burden already the Republic of Serbia's budget by setting up so many agencies, and the question is what will so many ministers do if all competences are transferred to the agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17898	On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 73, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Sulejman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 73 reads: "The Ministry is overseeing the work of the Agency, the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, the competent authority of the local self-government unit, as well as authorised legal entities in the pursuit of entrusted tasks. ''The amendment I filed on behalf of the SNS, which provides for erasing the word 'agement', is one from a set of amendments relating to the agencies. The amendment is in line with SNS's efforts to cut budget costs and state administrations, which could not be said for the ministry and government. Mr. Minister, you are, not as a minister, but as a member of the government, declaring yourself to be saving, and in reality form, either you have formed 104 or 105 different agencies, which play the same role and perform the same jobs as the parent ministry. This number of agencies not only makes no sense, it's going to cost extremely much. There would be a certain point in establishing certain agencies, only individual agencies, if you would have abolished all ministries before that, and I doubt that will happen. The existence of parallel institutions doing identical work is nothing more than a double burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget or, rather, citizens' pockets. There's mathematics very simple and clear. The ministry plus the agency, plus the rest of the administration, along with the budget, is collapsing. The SNS MPs will remind you of that every day. I believe that what you understand is just to accept. I hope you will accept quickly enough and see where this administration leads, and the first step would be to accept this amendment and the amendments of my colleagues regarding the word – agency in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17900	On Article 73, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 78, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 78, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 78, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection. He was accepted by the proposer's representative, so he became an integral part of the law. On Article 79, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 81, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? On Article 85, the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 85, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON THE PROTECTION OF PRIORITY (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Ljiljana Zdravković, Siniša Stamenković, Kenan Hajdarevic, Dusan Marić, Marina Toman, Vladan Jeremic, Nikola Žutić, Dragan Števanovic, Dušanka Plečević, Srbojub Živanovic, Nikola Savić, Milan Škrbić, Radica Jocić, Dragan Živić, Milovanovic, Miljanović, Radiša Ilić, Sulejman Spaho, Vlad Milojković, Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Marić, Milorad Krstinić, Lidija Vukić, Milan Avramović, Elena Bozan-Taljan, Slobodan Vuković, Momciložina, Dragan Ačić, Milar Žirović, Milarnović, Žalnović, Žalnažilnović, Žalnović, Žalnik Žalnović, Žalarnić, Žalić, Žalnić, Žalić. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 67. The bill was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov, and rejected amendments, under Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17901	The PUPS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 4 by adding a new point 74a behind point 74a), which would read: "The natural security manager is a legal or natural person who meets the conditions for managing protected natural goods". The term: "protected natural goods manager" includes legal, and in some cases a natural person who fulfils the conditions regarding professional, human, financial and organisational capacity, which is also given to management by the act of declaring protected natural goods. We believe that this amendment, in addition to the opinion of most colleagues who have put the amendment on Article 4, would be a contribution to strengthening the law on nature protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17902	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17903	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 10(3), which should be amended and read as follows: "The projects, works and activities of Article 1 of this Article which are not covered by the draft documents of Article 9 of this Act must be subject to the consent of the ministry". The parliamentary group believes that the environmental impact assessment law, in addition to impact assessment, introduces a new obligation, which is an assessment of "acceptability", for which projects and activities provided by the legislator are planned. Serbia's Nature Protection Institute has unhinderedly given an opinion on all activities related to protected natural goods. This is unnecessary and represents additional administration and duplication of work. Reformation to be achieved by amendment to Article 10(3) The draft law allows the planning works set out in Article 9 which may have an impact on ecologically significant areas, or protected natural resources, to be authorised only on the request of the authority responsible for granting approval, in this case, means facilitating the operation of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17904	On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17905	The PUPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 12 and proposes that it be deleted, not to stand by the law. We find it impossible for one protected natural good, which has been exploited for years from the previous user, to simply replace and declare another protected natural good, all in the same area. A new user of a protected natural good can not subsequently be invoiced for unsecured recovery and revitalisation measures. The compensation measures proposed by the law should serve to give the new manager and user of the protected natural goods, for the purpose of rehabilitation and revitalisation, according to specific regulations, land for other purposes and necessary resources for bringing land to culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17906	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17907	The PUPS Parliamentary Group proposes that this amendment, in Articles 18, 1 and 3 be deleted. We believe that the protection of forest ecosystems is covered by the protection of biodiversity from Article 14, i.e. the protection of all ecosystems in Article 17, so these provisions are too high. It's a technical matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17908	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17909	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 19 and is proposing that it be deleted. The provisions of this article are, in our opinion, unnecessary, because this matter is regulated by the Law on Plant Protection. The legislator cannot and must not prohibit the application of registered pesticides, whether chemically, biologically or biotechnically, which are used under strict ecosystem protection programmes, as otherwise the degraded forest content would suffer invaluable damage. In addition, there are additional authorisations for the use of pesticides in the protection of ecosystems, especially when the law does not specify what ecosystems they are. We suggest that pesticides be allowed to be used for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17910	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17911	The PUPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 54 of this draft law, with a proposal to delete in Article 54(4), (5), (6) and (8). We believe that, on a management plan protected by natural good consent, the competent authority provides, so that the development of annual plans is a duplication of jobs and administration. In particular, the question arises as to who is carrying the costs of the public awareness procedure in one plan and at what cost. The annual plan is contained in a long-term management and management plan protected by natural well-being. All it takes is for consent to be issued on the basis of an insight into the already approved and existing plan document, which is accompanied by the Serbian Nature Protection Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17912	On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 68, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 77, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 80, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17913	Because of the public, in Article 80. The proposal for a law on nature protection, we have amended Article 2. The article reads as follows: "public roads and other types of traffic, telecommunications and electricity systems, hydrobuilding and other buildings, whose construction cuts the normal corridors of day-to-night and seasonal migration of wild animals, causes the fragmentation of habitats or otherwise disrupts their normal life cycle, builds in a way that reduces the negative effects and implements specific construction and technical and technological solutions on buildings themselves and in their environment, during construction and exploitation." This part wasn't disputed from the position of the SRS. Where we intervened is item 2, which reads: "Special technical and technological solutions, which allow smooth and secure communication of wild animals (ecological bridges, built passages and crossings, tunnels, leaks, ditches, security and guidance facilities, fishing paths and elevators and others), as well as measures to protect and maintain technical and technological solutions, is prescribed by the minister, with the agreement of the Ministry of Traffic, Mining and Energy, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management". Our intervention was in terms of attitude 2. We wanted the word "minister" to stand for "minister" instead. It is in line with the SRS' view that these tasks should be carried out by the ministry, as a competent state body. In view of our experience, most often the Minister is a category that cannot be seen as a state body, but is very often identified with powers, which are really big and, given the great powers, prone to abuse. We're not saying it could happen, but to avoid it, we thought it was better if instead of the minister, there was a ministry. The amendment, based on the government's position, is unfortunately not accepted, and we hope that in this sense abuse will not come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17914	On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 95, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 97, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 103 and Article 103, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 105, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 109, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 110, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 110, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 111, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 114, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 115, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 120, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 120, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 121, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 123, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 130, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 131, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 131, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17915	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 131 of the bill, replacing the 6th word: "three months" with the words "a year". I was under the impression that we accepted him on the board. It should be announced that it has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17916	The government accepted the amendment, as well as the Committee, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 133, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 133, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 10th item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Safeguarding in the Living Environment (single details) you have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Lapčević, Milos Radulović, Arsen Đurić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Jovan Palalić, Donka Banović, Željko Tomić, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Dragan Acimović, Elena Christmas-Taljan, Milorad Buha, Radiša Ilic, Milan Veseinović, Lidija Vukić, Jadranko Vukovic, Slobodan Vuković, Jovan Damjanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Momcilo Duvnjak. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 6 and to Article 6, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17917	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have provided for a 2nd position to be added to article 10, which reads: "Coordination and coordination in the adoption and implementation of measures and decisions by the Environment Protection Agency". That's attitude 2. The draft law became Article 3. The explanation we wrote, I'll explain it in a few sentences. In practice, various problems arise. You don't know who he's coordinating with, how he's harmonising certain regulations, and that's not what the legislator predicted. So this is just one measure to improve this law and to know and classify exactly whose duty it is, to make it more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17918	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17921	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, member 15, regulates that the Government prescribes noise indicators, limit values, methods for assessing noise indicators, disturbances and harmful effects of noise in the environment and on human health, as well as the type and method of data collection needed for their operation. We believe that these tasks should not be carried out by the Government, as a central body that has much more serious affairs, but would be able and should be prescribed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as an organ that is much more operational and which should not wait for its turn, that is, this point of adoption in the Government, given that all these things must go through various committees of various ministries. We find this proposal much more appropriate. We suggest that the Ministry of Environment does this job, a team before Article 17 of the Law, in its position 4, the Ministry of Environment, which is competent to prescribe a methodology for determining acoustic zones. We think this is compatible and that these jobs should be done by the Ministry, and we expect both the minister and most of them to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17922	On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Milos Radulovic, just asking you to register in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17923	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are today discussing a set of laws that are very important to all people. These are laws that regulate the environment. One of these laws is the law on protection against noise in the environment. The DSS MPs submitted an amendment to Article 20(5), asking for strategic noise maps to be audited at least once every three years, unlike the legislator, who put it in law to be at least once every five years. We think this is a very important area. Just by cutting deadlines, we have an important impact on the environment and on the lives of all citizens. I'll remind you that editing these tickets is mandatory for agglomerations of over 100,000 inhabitants, for traffic that have over three million vehicles and for railways that have over 30,000 vehicles. They shall be developed with the participation of the Agency, competent authorities and other entities in the field of health, planning and construction in the field of traffic. We think it's very important to respect this amendment, because in a really thorough way it regulates this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17924	On Article 21, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) There is a word from MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17925	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment, the DSS Group submitted to Article 21(6) an amendment amending this position and saying: "The action plans are being adopted, or revised for a period of three years". We believe that the five-year deadline provided for by the legislator, and in which I must remind myself, it is necessary to bring about, or revise action plans, a very long one, and it is indeed necessary to respond quickly. That's why we suggest that this deadline be reduced to three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17926	On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17927	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 37 sets out a period of one year, where the appropriate bodies, first of all, the Government, at least in this position 1, need to lay down the relevant regulations, and the regulations laid down in Articles 15, 17, 20, 22, 24 and 25. So, the promoter believes that a year is the deadline in which certain regulations are to be laid down. We think it's too long a deadline, so by amendment of the DSS MPs, the deadline would be reduced by a year to six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17928	On Article 37, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Lapcevic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17929	This is our second amendment to the position of the 2nd member, Article 37. Item 2 refers to the obligations that units of local self-government have in the adoption of certain acts referred to in Article 17. The promoter again leaves time for a year for local self-government to adopt an appropriate act, which is mandatory under Article 17, and the DSS considers it too long and that the deadline should be reduced, from one year to six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17930	Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Republic of Slovenia on 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law by Members of the People's Parliaments: Siniša Stamenković, Radovan Radovanović, Miroslav Markić, Bozidar Delić, Jelena Budimirović, Saša Maksimović, together, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Milan Lapčević, together, Milica Vojić-Marković, Željko Tomić and Nikola Lazić, together, Željko Tomić, Milan Lapčević and Zoran Nikolic, together, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Šormić and Željko Tomić, together, Aleksandar Pejčić, Dragan Šormaz and Milan Lapčević, Živina Stanković, Živina Stanković, Svetljanačan Šović, Žaljanažar Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žilić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Vrjažilić, Žalić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žajkomić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žišakić, Žalić, Žalić, Ž. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted a Committee on the Protection of the Environment of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee has rejected, as incomplete, an amendment to Article 36. The bill was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov, which is why this amendment, in accordance with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, it can't be debated and it's not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, and this amendment became an integral part of the bill. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17931	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues and fellow MPs, the PUPS Group has submitted a total of 35 amendments to this law. Of the 35 amendments, seven amendments were adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at its session, and eight amendments were adopted by the Proposer at the session of the Committee on Environmental Protection, or Minister Oliver Dulic. The fact is that work-consultative meetings, held for the adoption and review of this law, gave good results and confirmed the ultimate responsibility and seriousness of all participants in the adoption of this law. Serbia and this parliament have a good chance of adopting a law on the sustainable development of the fish fund for the first time in the long parliamentary tradition of our Republic. A large number of amendments, the PUPS parliamentary group wanted to correct the ambiguities and remove the opposing principles given in the draft law, thus reaching the level of legislation that would regulate the demands and needs of 150,000 sports fishermen and about two and a half thousand commercial fishermen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17932	On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17933	Madam Chairman, first of all, I would like to warn you that I have the time of my authorised representative and six minutes of the Parliamentary Group, so there is no need to interrupt me by amendment to Article 2. I want to finish the short introduction, and then I want to talk about the amendment. The aim of the PUPS Parliamentary Group is to bring these legal standards into line with living standards and needs, to create as many legal-responsible entities as possible, the users of the fishing area. All the amendments this group has submitted to this draft law have, precisely, the purpose of harmonising legal norms with living norms. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that in the adoption of this law, we must not be disturbed by the facts in force at the moment, which are – that the state is not economically economic and economically functional enough, that there is no uniformly distributed and developed national strategy on all conditions of environmental and environmental protection and the question of sustainability of the yield of all species that are in transition, or migration through our country, whether it is fish, game, or birds. With a better definition of all these legal provisions, as offered by such a large number of amendments, we believe that we will contribute to correcting the law. By amendment to Article 3 I suggested that Article 3 be given a new form. The Environment Committee has made proposals at its session, so please read them when you encounter any of these amendments that have been declared and accepted either the entire amendment or part of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17934	An apology to MP Sinisha Stamenkovic. It's a misunderstanding. I understand you've finished your exposure, and that was the only reason. An apology, a slip, with no evil intentions whatsoever, indeed. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 3, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17935	I would ask you to tell me, before I move on to the explanation of the amendment, how much time do I have left as an authorised promoter and time foreseen for the Parliament Group? (President: As an authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group, 15 minutes, and time is available to the MP's group for 60 minutes. ) The manner of all my presentations these days, in the name of a parliamentary group that is not present for known reasons, is that I try to present them in a decent way, because to replace them I cannot, because it is about people who are qualified to talk about all these topics, and it concerns the most diverse areas of the widest possible area, such as environmental protection. To understand what the current picture is about the fish fund, for the Serbian public are the most receptive concrete examples, of which we have no feedback on what came next. It's about an accent who was very unpleasant to all of us and, as such, carved in the long run as a bad memory. It's about a mass-murdering fish in Bosut. Let me remind you, that's when about 45 tons of fish died. Mr. Minister, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, but I haven't been able to find any feedback on what went on and whether anyone was responsible for such a terrible disaster. I believe it's a scene that has seduced everyone who's had a chance to see a disaster like this. What counterpart Dragan Stevanovic, together with his colleagues, has prepared for this item of the agenda, is what is considered to be a protection and improvement of fishing waters, as well as flora and fauna in them, which requires a comprehensive approach to the overall efforts of the entire community to contribute through a comprehensive system of measures, procedures and continuous work, in the best, fastest and most comprehensive way to Serbia's overall sustainable development. This implies the adoption of an adequate administrative regulation, which we are talking about today. It might be a lot easier to talk about on this subject if we had a picture in terms of feedback, based on inspection, if anyone ever responded in the right way for such terrible events as this case was in Bosut. All of this, which is a topic, which we especially want to draw attention to, because we think it's one of the important problems, is raising awareness when it comes to protecting, especially the fish fund. You'll correct me, too, if I'm wrong, it seems to me that such educational shows, in that sense, signed by the Resort Ministry, are not much. With this in mind, it is completely incomprehensible that at least during a period of primary school education there are no subjects dealing with environmental protection and, as part of this, with a fish fund, namely sustainable development and use of the fish fund, as a national wealth of Serbia. In doing so, we are really interested, given the quality of the water, which is left of Serbia's national wealth, because we have information that diplomatic missions are often instructed that river fish are not so often on their table. We'd also like to know the exact information related to river pollution funds. Then it would probably be a clear situation with the fish fund, what the SRS was going through the amendments to fix, and it missed his chance. I'm using the time foreseen for the Parliament Group and the topic is the protection of the fish fund. We've also appointed Article 3, where we've asked for a new position to be added. I'm saying this with intent, because my colleagues are unable to explain this to the Serbian public, and I think the public would be denied the quality of the reasoning. The new position we asked for would be added – fishing area in the national park or other protected natural goods can be attached parts of other fishing areas from their hinterland, especially within the boundaries of specific purposes or rounded geographical and ecological continents. The Minister of the Act confirms the new limits of the added fishing area and, on the basis of a reasoned request and management programme submitted by the undertaking managed by the national park, i.e. the ageer of the protected natural goods. Since I can't talk about Mrs. Christmas-Talian's specific amendment, I'm taking the opportunity to put the amendments together. The 3rd and 4th ones we've submitted. In this way, parts of fishing areas, which are mostly marginal, would be added to the fishing areas of national parks and protected natural resources, and programmes for the protection and promotion of the environment and sustainable development and protected areas would also be applied in added fishing waters, which would allow better and faster protection and improvement, but also more precise management of added waters, as criteria and rules of conduct in protected natural good rigorous than in the rest of the Republic and its parts. This means faster development and a clearer perspective, better protection for marginal parts of certain fishing areas, on which even basic principles are not respected and not implemented. I am taking the opportunity to hear directly from my colleagues who have submitted the amendments, and to Article 4, which we are talking about, at this time I present to the Serbian public. We tried to make an observation, i.e. to correct it, because we considered it appropriate, to replace the 3rd number 10 with 5, with the reason that until now fishing areas have been used for five years. It is a time interval for fishing use, to make it clearer to the Serbian public. In the good part of the user’s practice, they have shown that they are not responsible in the first few years, and that only in the fourth or fifth, they do something to improve the fish’s fund, i.e. to fish. The fishing area usually serves them as a good source of income, with minimal investment. If given to use for 10 years, our belief is that the situation would be even more drastic and the manipulation of presence. All of this will reflect negatively on the promotion and protection of the fish fund, as a national treasure, but also on good starting grounds for improving and developing fishing tourism and overall economic development. Also, mid-term management plans for 10 years will be unrealistic, as the long time interval for relative assessment of the overall development of the fishing area will rather be a list of beautiful desires than a realistic projection of development, which is also confirmed by practice, which has a resulting negative development and protection component and benefit for nature and fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17936	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic, and this amendment became an integral part of the bill. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 5, was submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection, which became an integral part of the bill. On Article 6, the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic, and this amendment became an integral part of the bill. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17937	The PUPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 10, with a proposal to delete the position of the 3rd member and to become Articles 4 and 5 so far. Article 10(3). The draft law provided that the user of the fishing area, in order to protect the fishing area, could also hire volunteers, who carry out the activities of keeping the fish fund as an escort to the legal fisherman. Voluntary, as an escort to the fisherman, is not defined as a legal category or as an occupation, nor has it been recognised by a mobile witness who should testify to the work of an authorised fisherman, i.e. the situation in the fishing area before the authorities. For the place and role of volunteers in the conservation of the fishing area, conditions such as years of life, working experience, fishing knowledge, regulated military obligations, driver's license, conviction or non-judgment for criminal offences, knowledge of security tasks, alarms, and in particular no official features such as the legitimacy, jurisdiction, authority and responsibilities of this person are defined. We suggest that this member be deleted from the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17938	On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17939	On Article 10, we have submitted an amendment to add, after Article 3, item 4, which is that the volunteer must have a professional examination for the fisherman. Automaticly, after that, attitude 4 becomes attitude 5, and attitude 5 becomes attitude 6. What's this about? Serbia's fishing organisation numbers over 300,000 people. It is obvious that fishing companies cannot cover such a large fishing area that additional assistance from volunteers is needed. To put this volunteer guard in some form of status, the one he needs to control in a way that he respects fishing and trusts must have some kind of document. It's absurd for someone in volunteer status to show up, to control him, to ask him some basics without him knowing. We think that this amendment should be accepted and that these volunteers must have passed an exam for the fisherman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17940	On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zeljko Tomic and Nikola Lazic and this amendment became an integral part of the bill. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic and this amendment became an integral part of the bill. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is for the Parliament of the people of Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17941	Of course, there is no discussion about the amendment, and I am really glad that the resolution ministry has accepted my colleague Vukovic's amendment, but I have been trying unsuccessfully to report on the previous few amendments; you have not seen me, so I am using the time at my parliamentary group. What we thought would be proposed is an article. 5, 6, 10 and 13, I will try, for the sake of the public, as a contribution of the SRS to improving this bill, to sublime. It is predicted that in Article 10, following Article 2, the additional position, which is to say – in a national park or other protected natural goods, a guard service may perform the duties of fishermen in accordance with the provisions of this law, on the grounds that material savings are done in this way, because one service, the Environmental Rangers, performs complete protection tasks in a national park or other protected natural goods, and according to the programmes in force in them, united. The SRS has also submitted an amendment to Article 13 and we have provided that in Article 1 after point 6), a new point 7 is added, which also includes other tasks in accordance with the fisheries management programme, with the reason that fishermen, in addition to the number of obligations, have others, such as: take part in fishing, protecting the ecological principles of water, helping fishermen and fishermen in recreational, sport and business fishing, and all in accordance with the annual and medium-term management programme of the fishing area. It is this amendment that has just become an integral part of the law, but we felt that the Serbian public should know that the SRS, regardless of the writing of the media and the obstruction, which leads for a reason, which is likely to be the subject, is able to submit meaningful amendments that become an integral part of the law. On this occasion, we thank the representatives of the restoring ministry who, regardless of the political color, have adopted such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17942	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milan Lapčević and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17943	What is foreseen by the amendment to Article 19 is that Article 2 adds, which reads: "The ministry is closer to the form, content and scope of the final report on the use of the fishing area for the period awarded to it by the contract of use", with the explanation – the Ministry will prescribe the form, content, scope and essential elements for the user's final report, which, on the basis of the contract on the use of the fishing area, received it on the time period provided for by the contract. The final report must have economic, ecological, educational and any other content that the user will qualify or disqualify in the next competition in the allocation of fishing areas and put it on a realistic assessment of the performance of contractual obligations to the Ministry, which withdraws criminal and criminal consequences for the non-fulfilment of the contract. I'd say this amendment was accepted, too. We didn't hear that. Now, I'm really glad, I'm joking, I'm not insolent, but let's put in a little bit of happy tones, which the Serbian public has heard is such a good amendment, in the interest of all of us, adopted, but this may be a message for all of us who speak and participate in the debate in the details of these extraordinary circumstances. However, we would have to respect the procedure of creating and giving birth to a single law, so it would be very helpful for the committees in charge to come together much earlier, not during the debate in particular. We would then have a government report on individual amendments. This is, of course, a recommendation. You all know it best. Indeed, it is difficult for us to take part in such a debate about such a set of united laws and to come into a situation that, for example, we do not have the government's position, or that in a quick and expeditionive way, almost to a misunderstanding, we go through certain amendments, so that we find it difficult to follow what law is on the agenda. I think it would be in the interest of all of us, and it's foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17944	By working and, under Article 27, as much as possible, to bring work together, because of the huge number of amendments that exist on all agenda points, which is legal and legitimate, but still more than 3,300 amendments that have been submitted, which we are working on both committees and plenary, we have indeed tried very hard to bring this together, so that, in cases where I have, possibly, the amendment is in consideration, I am consulting, so the MP gets verbally in the debate in particular the report that, as in the case of the amendment of the People's Parliament, Lidija Dimitrijevic, in Article 19, the Government has accepted the amendment. So make sure there's no mistake and there's no confusion. If there's a slip, let's fix it on time, and certainly, before the day of the vote. I agree with you that everything would be quite comfortable if the boards could work on Mondays and Fridays and we had the reports ready. If you calculate 3,300 amendments in hours and minutes, that means this session would have to last longer than our four-year term, which might not be bad, but it's not possible. You wanted to keep going? Here you go, MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17945	Without the intention of you and I entering the polemics, but on a regular basis, without any negative connotation, about improving work, no matter how painful it sounds, 3,300 amendments are really a large number of amendments, but the background of everything is generally known, it's something the opposition has a right to. I don't want to get into that story right now, because here I have quality material in front of me for all my colleagues, who I want to present both to my colleagues and to the Serbian public. However, here is really the question of what is the purpose of this quick way of working? I understand the option for which you have defined yourself, and the people voted, in terms of the faster fulfilment of the standards imposed by the EU, but I think that, first of all, we need to meet those standards for our own sake, our own countries and our citizens for our sake. So I really don't understand, I may have a logic problem, why the speed goes ahead, conditionally speaking, quality, and very often we come into a situation, I'm not a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I don't have any insight into the work of that committee, but it can happen, as it happened to me today, to find out from Mr. Minister what the atmosphere on the Committee was like, without being able to respond in due time, since, I'm getting the circumstances, one MP present in front of the SRS. I'm saying this because I'm communicating with my colleagues on this subject. We are all in the best interests of quality work, as high-quality political atmosphere as I think we would all benefit from it, not as individuals, but as representatives of the will of some people who have put their trust that we will do our best to live better. In that context, I think the procedure is one thing, but if you have this as a top-of-the-line, categorical imperative, then perhaps you should consider that some discussions should last longer and be more quality. So, that is my individual opinion, we would have better legal proposals, which will directly affect the life and fate of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17946	National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic has submitted an amendment to Article 21 and new members of 21a are added after article 21. and 21b. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17947	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 21. The draft law, with a proposal to add a new Article 21, reads: "To preserve and protect the fish fund, hunting for all or some species of fish in the fishing area, as well as a ban on fish that do not have the required size. The minister is closer to prescribing measures for the conservation and protection of the fish fund." Behind this Article 21, we added two new members, 21a. and 21b, which reads: "The Minister of Special Act determines the protection and sustainable use of Black Sea migrants from the Jeseridae family (acipenceridae) and herring (clupeidae) in the protected natural good 'Radujevac' on the Danube and in accordance with the international CITES Convention". In Article 21b. We predicted that, for the purpose of monitoring the environmental status and protection and sustainable use of fish stocks in fishing waters, the Council for Protection and Sustainable Use of Serbia's Fish Fund is being established. The alliance would be called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Council is not an agency, it monitors the application of the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, adopts a monitoring programme and measures to protect and preserve the fish fund in the Republic of Serbia and submits an annual report to the National Assembly on its work, not to the Ministry, not to any other body, but to the National Assembly. ''The monitoring programme set out in Item 3 of this article is proposed by the Ministry and concludes a contract with an organisation that meets the prescribed conditions regarding personnel, equipment and space. The Minister shall designate the organisations referred to in Article 4 which meet the conditions for monitoring and conclude the contract with them. ''We would like to note, as a special type of obligations arising from the proposal of these three members of the law, that, firstly, the Convention on International Trade in Wild flora and fauna, the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Wild flora, fauna and natural habitats, the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlifes, as well as the Ratified Agreements in the Fisheries Area, obliges the Republic of Serbia to be marine, e.g. "Radujevaca" in its natural breeding site, and at the end of the migration route, from the mouth of Danube to the Black Sea, to the Hydropower plant on Serbia, Bulgaria and Romania. Under the Law on the Protection of the Environment (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’) no. 66/91 to 53/95, the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia has reached a solution on the prior protection of the natural good “Radujevac”, which has established the obligation of the user of the fishing area to fish for sustainable fishing and allow the fishing of migratory fish families of acipenserid and klopeide, due to the catches of fish meat and the famous Black-Kladovese caviar. The management of Serbia's natural wealth must be in line with international rules relating to migratory species, whether birds, fish, game or something else. The sustainability of the economic yield of game, fish and birds refers only to a period during which migration species meet their ecological, biological-genetic and other needs in the temporary natural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, species, quantity, period, method and method of catches of migratory species. For these reasons, it is arranged by CITES permission and our regulations. It is proposed to introduce an institution of the Council for Protection and Sustainable Use of Serbia's Fish Fund, in which the National Assembly would appoint representatives of science, users of the fishing area and fishermen themselves. The Council would monitor the application of the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17948	On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17949	In Article 23, the Serbian public is working, it is about fish farms. I'd really like to read it, so it's clear what we wanted to do with the amendment. So: “The minister determines fish harvests in certain parts of fishing areas, for the sake of an uninterrupted set of fish. The user may, by means of a fishing area management programme, determine certain parts of the fishing area for fish crops over a specified period of time. In the fish fruits referred to in Article 1, every species of fishing shall be prohibited, as well as any other activity that interferes with the reed, development and movement of fish other than fishing for scientific research purposes. The user of the fishing area in which fish crops are located shall be obliged to mark them visibly, to point out the prohibition of fishing, to prohibit movement without authorisation and to prohibit any other disturbance of fish and to take all necessary measures to ensure a smooth inflow and drain of water from the breeding site and other measures of integrated management of the fisheries area which ensure the functional integrity of the fish farm. “ In Article 2, at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted and the text is added “or permanent. ” Just to remind you, paragraph 2 reads: “The user may set certain parts of the fishing area for fish in a specific period of time with the management programme of the fishing area. ” We wanted it to be permanent. Explanation: The projected measure will, on many fishing waters, permanently, in line with scientific and scientific knowledge, allow continuous protection and, subsequently, increase the fish's stock on certain fishing waters. Honestly, we don't understand why the Ministry of Resort didn't adopt this amendment. What we wanted to point to is the integrity of the breeding site, and that's why we thought that timeshare would be permanent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17950	On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 24, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, International MP Siniša Stamenković. These amendments have become an integral part of the bill. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment to Article 25 and added a new Article 25a after article 25a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17951	The PUPS parliamentary group proposes that the draft law allow the establishment of caged systems or other fish farming facilities in fishing water and that it be approved by the competent ministry. It doesn't make sense that in neighbouring countries, or in the territorial waters of Croatia, at 146km, and Romania, at 220km, these cages are approved and not on our territory. Article 25a. We propose: 'The fishing water is prohibited from carrying out work which violates the morphology of the terrain and the integrity of the area, is burdened with the main water flow and its tributaries by industrial, waste and fecal waters, fishing in times of migration ( fall, winter, spring), as well as in times of bridge, by species of fish, the reintegration of fish migration and network roads, the discarding and disposal of organic and non-organic waste in the riverbed and its tributaries, the change of the water regime (water system), the change of the fish network, the fishing of illicit gears, the networks and resources that damage the only, the removal of obstacles in the water stream, which would endanger the natural habitat, the conservation of the natural genetic stock and biodiversity', and is not allowed to set up cages. We think that this is an unpopular measure, that it has prevented the economic activity of many economic operators involved in this activity and that it should be approved. It is unreasonable that in the same waters Romanian or Bulgarian fishermen use herring, use other fish species, and we cannot use what we have in the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17952	On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17953	The PUPS parliamentary group considers that, since they are connected, in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they would, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, be in line with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 27th and 29th amendments had to be made, in the sense that Article 27(3), which is subject to the amendment, states: ‘except for hydroenergy plants installed by an installed power greater than one megawatt’. We do not understand the need for these members, as given in the Bill's proposal, to have large hydroenergy systems amnesty of responsibility for events in the biodiversity of large rivers. We ask that this provision be returned and remain in the law as the obligation of large hydroenergy systems to do no direct threat to the hydroenergy potential, or biodiversity of our waters, in their exploitation, or in the fields of exploitation. When it comes to Article 29, in the event of a change in the physical, chemical or biological characteristics of fishing water, which would have a harmful effect on the fish fund, rescue measures must be applied, i.e. the removal of certain consequences resulting from an irregular approach to the protection of the fish fund, as one of the measures prescribed by this law. We suggest that the users who carry out these activities in St. 2 and 3 are obliged to submit a report to the Ministry, in which they would explicitly explain what they were saving, and what rehabilitation fishing could be economic, if the fish were placed on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17954	On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 29, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Sormaz, Zoran Nikolic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I think it was logical for this amendment to be accepted, and I'm going to explain and give an example of why. A member of the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, Article 30(1) states that commercial fishing in the fisheries area can be carried out by a company or by an entrepreneur, and then continues to go – which meets the conditions. Our amendment stipulates that a member should read: 'Economic fishing in the fishing area can be carried out by a company and another legal person', not by an entrepreneur, 'who meets the conditions laid down by this law'. I can say, in an explanation, that's how we wrote it, that it's more correct to use the term "other legal person" than the term "entrepreneur," because it's a broader term, and I'm going to give you an example. You have ecological associations that are a group of citizens who maintain and fish certain places, then fish and sell that fish, maintain and have the right to do so. In this way they are funded as a group of citizens, at least so far it has been done. We think that it is much more correct to stand – another legal person, because in this way other associations, such as these ecological societies, which are indeed enough in Serbia, are foreseen by the plan. This is much more accurate and better. I think this amendment should have been accepted. He's still at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17956	On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment to add a new member of 32a after article 32a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17957	The PUPS parliamentary group considers that this amendment to Article 32, and later on Article 33, would be directed to separate this law from the licenses for commercial fishing, as a public document that gives the fisherman the right to fish, and a licence as an annual fishing ticket, which would be issued by the user of the fishing area, as well as to separate the licence for sports fishing, or recreational fishing, as the individual right of each sport fisherman, by having a map of the Ministry, or the Republic of Serbia, for all fishing waters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous Region, and a fishing ticket to be issued to him by the user of the fishing area, with the cost of bone determined by it. According to this draft, where we submitted the amendments to the article. In the 32nd and 33rd, the obligation to pay out fishing tickets, i.e. fishing licences, Ministry and fishing tickets, or fishing tickets and commercial fishermen and school fishermen engaged in recreational fishing. In this way, we believe that the responsibility of one and other categories of fishermen engaged in sports or business fishing and precisely determines who issues the cards, what the users of the fishing area are doing for the account of the Ministry of Environment and Ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17958	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. This amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment to Article 39 and added a new member of 39a after article 39a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17959	The PUPS Group considers that this Article 39, as a circular and basic member of the Draft Act on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Fish Fund, is, in fact, determined and determined by law, i.e. The change introduces unique licenses for recreational and sport fishing across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, allowing for more efficient and faster records of recreational and sports fishermen, and thus for recreational and sport fishing to be carried out in several fishing areas, if there is an opportunity by the individual himself, i.e. the holder of the right to sports or commercial fishing. With a proposal for a new Article 39. a fishing ticket for recreational fishing shall be specified, as a means of performing recreational fishing in a particular fishing area, issued by the user, and the user shall issue this correction and determine its content, i.e. a time limit of importance and cost. I ask the Ministry's representatives to adopt a member like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17960	On Article 39, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Dragan Sormaz and Milan Lapcevic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17961	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 39, who regulates and defines recreational fishing permits, is likely to be osmaked to specify who issues these permits, i.e. It is said that the user's authorisation is issued, with which the user is not told. Here we need to specify the concept – the user should add words – the user of the fishing area because it is a specific area, as it is done in Article 36, where it is said – the user of the fishing area intended for commercial fishing, etc. It is necessary in Article 39 to specify who the user is and our amendment seems this because, after the words – the user, they add words – the user of the fishing area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17962	On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17963	Dear Mrs. Comic, we are again in a position not to say, firstly, what is accepted on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment regarding this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17964	On Article 41, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 48, the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection and MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. These amendments, in the same text, have become an integral part of the bill. On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 49, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Radovan Radovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that, after Article 50, Chapter 6 - Control, subtitle and Article 50a be added. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment member of the 51st, was submitted by the Committee for the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 53, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 55, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 57, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 58, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 61, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Sinisa Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17965	The PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 63, with a proposal to change it and to read: "The agreements on the entry into force of fishing areas at the time of entry into force of this law cease to apply until the end of 2009. The Ministry of Fisheries Affairs will, by the end of 2009, open a competition for the allocation of fishing areas to use." We believe that this amendment, Article 63 of the Law, determines that the current division of fishing areas, which has recently been completed, ceases, suspends, does not have a return and subsequent fact, and that the new fisheries area competitions will be divided according to all the adopted and proposed provisions of the sustainable development law and the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17966	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 65, was submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The promoter is not present, and I conclude the review of the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on the Protection of Life Centres (specificities) You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Saša Maksimović, Milan Radulović, Željko Tomić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Arsen Đurić, Vladimir Milentjevic, Milos Radović, Zoran Nikolić, Milan Lapčević, Milan Dimitrijevic, Miroslav Petković, Milica Radović, Milica, Zoran Šami, Živojin Stanković, Vuk Dinčić, Srdjan Miković, Lodi Gabor, Milan Stanimirović, Svetlana Stojković-Milovanovic, Ljiljana Zdravković, Munir Poturak, Miroslav Marinković, Nebojša Tsaran, Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarević, Vlatko Ratković, Vlatko Ać Ać, Dragović, Eljan Ačijamić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Miljavljan Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić Živić, Žalić Živić, Živić, Živić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žaj. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic withdrew the amendment they submitted to Article 5. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Zeljko Tomic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17967	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the objectives and reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the law is to comply with EU standards. Since this is the case, the definition in Article 1 or point 18, according to these EU standards is: "Emission is direct or indirect release of matter, vibration, heat or noise from sources in the plant, into air, water or land. "So that's the definition of IPPC. If we're going to process the law under EU law, then let's apply what it says in those laws. That's the only reason this amendment is filed. If we're going to follow some rules, then the rules should be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17968	On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Zivojin Stankovic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17969	I'm not sure if he's an SRS colleague, but still, Article 2 is. Sure, I can't talk about a specific amendment, but nod means it is. For the sake of the public, I'd like to read Article 2. Proposal for a law on environmental impact assessment. In Article 3(1), after the words "removement of projects", it is stuck and words are added, "e.g. facilities and equipment". In paragraph 2, the words "or use", are replaced by the words "or used without the use of permission". In Article 3, following the words "water industry", the words "infrastructures, metallurgy", and the words "as for all projects planned for the protected natural good and in the protected environment of the immovable cultural good", are replaced by the words "in accordance with a special regulation establishing a list of projects for which impact assessment is carried out". I hope this is clear to the public. I'd skip the next attitude. The thing where we intervened with our amendment, i.e. our colleague Alexic, is that the projects of St. 1st and 2nd of this member can be subject to impact assessment if their implementation, or use, is in accordance with the regulations governing planning and construction. Considering that we're assuming he's... I don't know what's going on at the table, but I can keep going. Anyway, it's another example that this work should be a little slower. We'd be more stalking, and I think the Serbian public would have a round picture of what these laws predict and how we're being appointed. Therefore, in the context of Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, says - everyone has the right to a healthy environment and to a timely and complete notification of its condition, given that the law must be very precise, that it does not leave room for free interpretation, what we wanted is, instead, "I can be subject to an impact assessment if their implementation or use is in accordance with the regulations", the word "I can" would be replaced by "must"; it would be really clear that there is no room for "can and not". So, precision for the sake of it, we intervened to make this in Article 2 a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17970	The consultations I had were due to my observation that you were talking about an amendment to the environmental impact assessment law. It's a law that we've been through in a search of specifics, and we're currently doing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, but you have your time, so use it as you think. As I follow the amendment and the basic text of the law, I always make sure I was wrong. You were talking about the law on impact assessment, and this is the law on environmental protection. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17971	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. A group of DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which, in fact, changes the existing law because these are amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. In essence, the amendment refers to this, I have already said, that reports concerning the state and protection of the environment should come to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. This is not just a legislative body, the National Assembly must have a control function, but we rarely use that function. The amendment is that we believe that the reports should be delivered to the National Assembly, whether they are considered in the plural, or that they are considered in the relevant committee, or the Committee on Ecology. I will read how we propose that item 5: "On the basis of the data and records on the implementation of plans, programmes and bases, the Ministry of Environmental Affairs, in co-operation with other competent ministries, prepares once every two years a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and submits it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17972	On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17973	Madam Chairman, if you don't mind, I'd like to speak first of all about the amendment we filed on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, and then use the time I have as an authorised representative, which I didn't use. This amendment is to Article 4. It is in the old law Article 16(1). We felt that it was necessary to change and to read: "A legal or physical person who performs activities, i.e. interventions in the environment in which environmental degradation can occur, is obliged to remediate or otherwise remediate the degraded environment, in accordance with the projects of rehabilitation and remediation. "Why have we submitted this amendment? We think that the definition that we have given is partly better, because we put the accent on activities and on actions that can endanger the environment. In addition, this definition, as we have set it, is fully in line with the definition of degradation that you have given in this law. I quote: "The degradation of the environment is a process of disrupting the quality of the environment resulting from natural or human activity, or it is due to a lack of measures to remove the cause, damage to the quality or damage to the environment, natural or created value." This is not the case in the case of a proposal for amendments to the Act, in Article 4. Now I'd like to speak, in the time I have as an authorised representative of the DSS, of this second set of laws. I purposely interrupted this kind of work, because I believe that the degradation of both this Parliament and the laws that are ahead of us. I have repeatedly pointed out that the DSS believes that this set of laws is important and that it should be given meaning and that we will not work as if there is a sale, or that there is some auction at work. Simply, a few people met us at a break and asked us what was happening in the congregation; they say, they just read and cross. I want to remind the citizens of the set of laws. First of all, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, Proposal for a Law on Air Protection, Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, Proposal for a Law on Noise in the Environment, Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund and Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. Although we, as children, have learned a rather easy lesson, that grandmothers and frogs do not at all get together, it seems that the proposer who made this kind of agenda did not learn this lesson, because he put a set before us and how important laws, completely different by their spirit and nature; the only thing they have in common is that they can fit into the category of environmental laws. In addition, the way we worked, ran and flew through these laws is quite unserious, because it leaves no trace, and the DSS and its MPs have really tried to leave a mark for their participation in this session, because we believe that this is very important, not only for all the citizens of our country, but, above all, for the future of this country's children. This set of laws that were before us, and which is still before us, would have opened up, if we had discussed it in one decent way, a series of topics and a series of problems, so, by opening these topics, we could have really contributed to the improvement of these laws, but also to improving the place of ecologicalism in this country. I want to talk about just some of these problems, because the DSS's position was to talk about these topics by opening up the problems that were answered by the ministry, there were answers by MPs who spoke, but simply, it should be opened in this way. Within the password factory "Faka" there are 15 to 20 tonnes of cyanide salt. They are located in a completely open space and the only protection is that they are fenced with wire and there is a clear warning that it is dangerous waste. Of course, I'm talking about the relationship, whether it's adequate or not, a team before the first apartment building is only 50 meters away. In Zorka - colored metallurgy', it's part of the Zorka factory, which is located in the restructuring, there are 5,000 metres of cubic dangerous zinc-supate matter, located in the tanks. This solution contains heavy metals, 10 tons of lead, five tons of nickel, three tons of cobalt, 500 tons of zinc acid. Is there a real danger, given that they are not adequately held there because of their lack of money? It's the Password again, the Viscosa. Let's just remember that there was an accent when the Viskoza caught fire. So, there are huge amounts of hazardous waste and they have to be exported, because we no longer have room to store it, and it's 500 tons of carbon-disulphate, 20 tons of zinc-sulphate, two and a half tons of ammonium hydroxide, 800 liters of formaldehyde, plus a large amount of solution. Where does the problem arise, and this problem is real in this country? We're part of the company quite unsuccessfully sold, owners don't store adequate materials that are there, and they can't work because they don't invest in these companies. For one part of the company that was sold, sales contracts were broken. Some companies are in bankruptcy or are working with almost symbolic production, so the waste is forgotten and it is no longer anyone's concern, nor adequately stored, in some parts it is completely uncoordinated. So the question is, is it possible that what's dangerous matter, and it's in everyone's hands, poses some kind of challenge to the state to answer that? The fact that some factory belongs to an individual, or a factory is in bankruptcy, or a company is about to fall apart, can't be the jurisdiction of just those people who bought it or resold it, or are in no way aware of what procedure, that's, above all, the jurisdiction of the state, the state has to be responsible for the health of citizens. When I talk about the second part of the law, let's say, air protection law, it's a systemically important law, it opens up an extremely large number of problems. We have, unfortunately, a large number of contaminants, we have large thermal plants in Obrenovac, Kostolc, Kolubara. We have chemical industry and metallurgical complexes located in Pancheva, Novi Sad, Kruševec, Bora, Smedereva. Let's say we have a Panchev problem. If we exclude really funny situations when in the pre-election campaign the alarm rang for no reason, there is also a real problem of cumulative air pollution, because of the concentrated petrochemical and refinery complex and the Azotara. Also, we have a problem with air pollution where cement plants are located. I have to mention again, that's what I said when I said in principle, that between the Ministry of Environment and the Government, on the one hand, and the cementists, on the other hand, there is a memorandum and that memorandum is an attempt by the Ministry to manage the process. It is in one part he's good, in the sense that in some way we have at least control. I must point out that there are 12% more of the total energy consumed in that memo that can go from alternative fuel, and these are tyres, waste oils and paints and a series of other types of waste. That's exactly what I'm saying because the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Assembly, is getting very often complaints from citizens from all over the city. They complain that they're cementing, say, like fuel burning tires. They think it is an inadequate way to endanger the health of citizens of these environments. I have to remind you of the recent story from Koserić, where several very important gaps have been made, which did not have to be made – one of them is to inform the public. We feel and again underline that it is very important that the public in each segment, therefore, both citizens and the professional public and local self-government, first of all, be fully aware of what is happening on their territory and that a chain of information must be established. In fact, the fact that something is unknown to the end poses a real danger of panic. One of the problems that arose in Koserić is panic. On the other hand, the other problem that arose in Koseric, which was solved thanks to the ministry, is that whoever bought the plant used very old technology. This technology could not adequately respond to environmental protection, and it was entirely directed to prohibit such use of tyres. It's well done in that part, but I think it was pretty late. We managed not to protect the environment by reacting only when the citizens initiated it. I'm going to answer to the minister immediately, who unfortunately isn't here today, because he said we got all this information just thanks to the Ministry, because the Ministry let the media publish it. Unfortunately, it's not like that. We got all this information by being some kind of acid, and it happened that the citizens rebelled, that they wrote complaints, that they were praying, and only then did we get any information. On the other hand, there are a lot of situations where we have no information at all. I have at least five cases here, where people sent letters and requests to sort of forward it to the Ministry, right after that first session, when we were talking about the law principle. There's something else I have to say again, although I'm uncomfortable repeating things. I find repetition in this case very important. That's something I'm saying because the public has to be familiar with things like burning these, say, alternative sources, like tires, colors and stuff. Of course, we are afraid that the development of dioxins will contribute to the burden of the environment and to the health of citizens in some way and to the real threat. In fact, it must be clearly said that burning in closed facilities, at 1,400 degrees, with adequate process management, releases a very small amount of dioxin and that it is allowed in these quantities even in the EU. Of course, the first thing I had to say was dioxin is poison gas. It is much more realistic for all of us citizens if this dioxin burns out in the open, at low temperatures, and that is exactly what happens when containers are lit; that is exactly what happens when on wild dumps you see the uninterrupted smoldering fires and smokes; that is exactly what happens when those heavy tires are lit for Petrovdan, so we all appeal that they are not doing it. So, citizens and how can they help themselves to protect our environment that way. What else can I say? So, I'm talking about Koseric again. I think escalating the problem is a very bad way to solve the problem. The problem to solve and solve as long as there's an opportunity to prevent pollution, not only when we're polluting our environment, and we're trying to fix it with this law. There's something else to say. I'm gonna say one more important thing. The law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollutants says that by 2015 all industrial branches have to adapt their technology because they will receive integrated permits. It is very important to do this by 2015, and I think everyone, at least in this part of the industry, energy and others, is familiar with this and they are slowly preparing their transition to these technologies. I'd say one more thing: fuel. We, as a Parliament group, have proposed this. The problem of traffic endangers air quality. Of course, it's about this other noise protection law. It is necessary to consider introducing a differentiated fee for the price of lead and unleaded gasoline by 2010. This is the year 2010, which is in line with the National Programme for the Protection of the Environment. In such a way, differentiated funds generate revenue and these compensation revenues should be used for the creation of market conditions for faster transition to unleaded gasoline. That's our proposal, and I think it should be taken seriously. I think we've processed this law and this set of laws from all sides and he needs to be paid the attention he deserves. For us, as the DSS Parliamentary Group, this set of laws, which I cited at the beginning of my presentation, is actually the country's response to contaminants, to environmental pollution and to the damage that, ultimately, in the form of endangering their health, citizens suffer. I believe that the state must be fully open, to explain to citizens who are never, nor can they be against sustainable development, therefore, to explain to citizens that with these sets of laws and all these environmental laws, it only contributes to the health of citizens, to be at some other level. Here, I'm gonna end up like this right now and I'm gonna be very happy if after this presentation I don't get any messages -- that we're working here today at some auction or some sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17974	The word was asked for by the MP Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17975	All I can do is join a colleague from the DSS and just add -- whoever survives this will have something to talk about. Indeed, it is an incredible speed of approaching the European Union. We hope that such a grouped agenda and such systemic solutions of the environmental law will contribute to living in a cleaner environment, that our city looks tenfold better, that our immune system is resistant to a wide variety of changes. Unfortunately, we're afraid it won't be like that. We, in this second set of laws, finally, on the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, have enough to say. I agree with the previous speaker that, most often, this information and data is obtained by citizens reporting from certain places of the Serbian state, from certain locations, reporting certain irregularities when it comes to sustainable development of the environment. What was the next time? The road map for us MPs is to address the official state institutions, to look for official data, since it is a very sensitive area, but here we have encountered problems. For example, what we were interested in is the economic value of the damage caused by various environmental effects. We've come to understand that we've been talking all along about pollution flows, not the pollution fund, which is also a startling information. There are representatives of the ministry, so if they have any other information, they will correct me, and it will also be affected by the fact that the state is blind, let's say, for the period of aggression. I've been asking questions, and I don't know how it's possible, since the information the SRS has been processed in 2000. One of these is located at the foreign ministry, because it was of paramount importance and was meant to trigger certain official reactions to the use of illicit fighting funds, such as chemical, biological and radioactive weapons. For example, 740 grams of poor uranium were thrown into Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and 1.5 tonnes on SRJ. To this day, several times, we have even been very likely to be bored with all present, trying to get official information on whether there was an official protest, an appeal, a submission, which should determine the responsibility of those who acted with weapons that were banned from all possible conventions. As the minister answered many questions today, which grouped in several groups, he ignored the answer to the question, but the first question was, what would any country in the world, in a similar situation, have an aggression on its part of the territory, that another country was using weapons of mass destruction, which on a long stick and in the near and distant future would absolutely incapacitate generations and generations of generations, the population in that part of the territory, have done? We are afraid, and that is the position of the SRS, that we will never get, or at least not in this mandate, the answer to that question, because an official response would mean a certain official reaction, in the sense that NATO members must be responsible for the full derogation of the environment. We have made further efforts to consult certain reports and analyses of experts, so we can challenge the official blindness of the resolution ministry that the Russian Military Academy has been doing some research on the period of NATO aggression, that there are concrete data on the number of flights, of course, and our army has been doing so, but some experts have been doing, in terms of the assessment of economic damage when it comes to the pollution fund. Since there were several headlines that were interesting to us, we spent a great deal of time studying Al Gora's book, which is totally unacceptable to us, and I have to tell you, first of all, because in that book there is no mention of the period of aggression and the period of impact and the fact of the cruise missiles - Tomahawk, who on average carry between 20 and 40 kilograms of impoverished uranium, as well as the fact of chemical and biological weapons and other types of weapons that have been tried on the part of the territory of the SRJ. What did we do? We tried to compare what you presented as official data related to investment and recovery of pollution flows only, but we do not have a picture of the real state of the environment in Serbia's territory. We've mentioned today several incidents, which are why we've put our finger on the forehead, that tens of thousands of tons of waste is being found in factories that don't work, don't work, don't exist, that this waste represents a terribly large disturbance and potential danger to the environment and human health, that it happens that factories are built in densely populated places, that waste is being delayed at locations that are inhabited by people, which will say that we have a notion of what it should look like in the next period, in terms of a strategic solution in these bill proposals, but we have no idea how plans and activities will be implemented, how much it will cost and who will be the bearers of these activities, since we know that human resources here are problematic. There is an intensity that funds are being centralized, given that, as we heard during the debate, local self-government has been misused, it has not been intended to use funds intended for sustainable development of the environment, and then we do not understand how you will operate locally from the strategic plan. We are afraid, based on certain examples, that I do not repeat myself when it comes to Surdulica and Vlasini, for example, that during the change of government, very significant projects, which concerned about about 50,000 inhabitants, were suspended. So it's about people's lives, not political points. We can vary this and the following way, to express our suspicion that today-to-morrow any government that changes at the republican level will selectively define funds to certain local self-governments. In parallel, we have come to the conclusion that certain self-priorities and priority locations that represent black spots when it comes to sustainable environmental development. We can understand this in the following way, that there really are huge financial resources missing, which should be treated by the environment in a way that every man lives with the life of a decent man. We compared the official data and everything that was the incidents, so we got a report from the inspector about the state of the environment in Panchev in 2008, which is on your website. Based on this report, not to repeat everything that is written, which we said in the previous, or in the morning, part of the debate, it is found that the level of air pollution in Panchev is, however, worrying. There are shifts, political correctness works, one year is better, the other is worse, but the problem remains. What we were interested in, and I think most people can understand the problem of controlling pollution flows, including pollution funds, I hope that one day we will have at least a report that will show very clearly the state of the environment, are economic categories, how much it costs. When we have an economic category, then in some ways we can develop a further picture of what time period what is the course of pollution at an annual level should be solved, that we're not talking about a projection that should be greater than five, or that lasts up to 10 years. We didn't get that. We received scattered data, in terms of investing certain factories that are contaminants and, roughly, data that should talk about certain projects, crediting certain financial institutions and standards of the World Bank, as well as the World Bank's opinion on certain locations and projects, how they are enforceable and how they affect the sustainable development of the environment. But all that aside, we don't have the assumption of a polluting fund. If we treat all the time, I guarantee you that based on all this data it can be concluded, only pollution flows, not the water, air and land pollution fund, then we can't talk about sustainable development of the environment, so we can't even talk about Serbia's citizens' health. We have no record of what the Serbian state's pollution fund looks like, for a simple but painful reason, which is why it's being silenced, and we won't hear from this composition of the executive government, which is a period of aggression, which, for several generations, has definitely derivated the environment in Serbia's territory. Therefore, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry to at least receive data from NATO aggression on the state of the environment during some reasonable period, as well as financial structure. What does that mean for the polluting fund? How much money does it take to resuscitate what many generations after us will suffer, and will definitely mean all the genetic changes with which generations are born in the state of Serbia, by destroying the immune system, as a consequence of the use of illicit weapons? This will mean that we can think in the following way, how to resuscitate the already irreversibly damaged environment, and thus also Serbia's citizens' health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17976	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Arsen Djuric, Zeljko Tomic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Just sign in, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17977	Thank you, Madam President. The DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 22, i.e. Article 5 in these amendments and additions, to add words after the words - indicators - and parameters - after the words. The further text remains the same. What's our explanation? Given that indicators are implicit indicators, we felt it was necessary to introduce explicit indicators, i.e. parameters, to assess the risk of land degradation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17978	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Vladimir Milentijevic, Donka Banovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17979	Madam Chairman, thank you. Our amendment refers to Article 7, which amends Article 29 of the existing environmental law. I don't think it's a good change that's proposed. I will read to you as it says in the proposal: "The management of hazardous substances is carried out under conditions and in a way that ensures a reduction of the risk of their hazardous properties by the environment and human health, in the process of production, storage, use and disposal." We think that our amendment should be accepted, because it is better defined, and the people who work in this area know that all dangerous substances are dangerous and that we need to ensure that the risk of accidents is reduced, so that we suggest that Article 29's position – the management of dangerous substances is done under conditions and in a way that ensures a reduction of the risk of accidents, in the process of storage, use and disposal. Why? Because dangerous matter is dangerous matter. Their dangers are constant, and only change the process of storage, use and disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17980	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Lapcevic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lapcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17981	The President-in-Office, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which reads that Article 3 in Article 29 is deleted. Why do we feel that this needs to be changed, or deleted, this attitude? In this Article, paragraph 3, the conditions for the storage of hazardous substances are defined. It is said that conditions for the storage of hazardous substances are prescribed by the environment minister, in co-operation with the health minister, the minister of security, the interior minister. We believe that the conditions of the storage of hazardous substances, first of all, should be dealt with by the MUP, because it is in the direct jurisdiction of this ministry, and that the Ministry of Environment simply must be involved in this story, but not that the minister should be competent to finally give conditions for the storage of hazardous substances, and it is most logical to delete this member in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17982	Thank you. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17983	Thank you, Madam President. When an amendment appears that says one member of the law is deleted, it must become valid reasons why it is deleted. These valid reasons, which I will state here, are that we are trying to introduce in our legislation something that is news in the EU, without any criteria. We do not know what will happen to this new EU legislation without a previous impact analysis, applying the identification of the problems that can be reported, as well as the causes of these problems in EU countries, as well as in the Republic of Serbia. So we are going three steps ahead, trying to install something of EU legislation without knowing the extreme effects of these new legal provisions. Have we done all the work inside our country in the first place? Let's base on these problems first. The problems were discussed by Mrs Milica Vojic-Markovic for 15 minutes, referring to cements, mentioning the Viscose Factory, the former Fak Fabrika and "Helios-colors" and 300 environmental incidents in Serbia. Now we are trying to build something into our legislation, and we have no experience about it. These are valid reasons why this member of the law should be deleted and we believe that such a member in our legislation, especially when it comes to environmental law, should not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17984	Thank you. On Article 11, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill, pending the procedure. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ragush, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17985	I can't talk about a concrete amendment, but I think the public in Serbia, when there is no representation of a member, is not quite clear what the amendment wants. You have our amendment with an explanation. I hope that what I want to say further, in the time foreseen for the Parliamentary Group, which, unfortunately, I alone represent, I will do in a way worthy people who have made an effort to respond well to the debate on the set of environmental laws. What I would refer you to, as an extraordinary choice regarding the use of illicit weapons, as a consequence of the Balkan war in 1999, is the extraordinary study by Professor Malishev of the Academy of Military Sciences. I have no intention of repeating the study, which was presented during the debate in principle, but, just reminders, to understand and to appeal to the executive power to take concrete steps, we know legally what to do, but in the context of the terrible environmental incidents and derogation of life and the environment of many generations on this part of the territory, I think the Ministry of Environment should intervene with NATO members. For example, if we compared it to the explosion in Hiroshima in 1945, then 740 grams of radioactive waste fell, which was enough to incapacitate three generations of people who survived the atomic tragedy. During the Chernobyl hawari, 63 kilograms of radioactive waste was expelled, and during the aggression on the SRJ – one and a half tons of material that decided the lives of all of us. The consequences are suffering, oncology departments, various clinics and hospitals are filled with people, unfortunately, with the most severe diseases, most often with a fatal outcome. Immunological changes also suffer most of the population. That's what we were talking about, I don't want to repeat myself, but I said earlier, we did a comparative analysis of what the official data of the state and the estimated economic value of the damage to the environment of Serbia, and so on, of further investments, when this economic rapper has expressed the value of the damage. The study was conducted by Jensen and Pesic in 2004, and was projected by 2013 and 2012 respectively. For the public in Serbia, it is very important to know that the chapter on air-based economic damage analyses of greenhouse gas emissions caused by global climate change, acidification of sulphur dioxide emissions, nitrogen oxides and ammonia, the disappearance of tropospheric ozone, the emissions of dusty matter. What's most important to the public is to say, on an annual level, according to the analysis of these experts, carbon dioxide emissions exceeds 46 million tons. The value of the damage that occurs on that occasion is around 456.9m euros. When it comes to sulfur dioxide, the total damage per year is 161,000 tonnes. The total damage expressed in millions of euros is 23.3m euros. Speaking of air, what Jensen and Pesic found as an economic parameter exceeds 1,370,000,000 euros. It's an estimate of the economic value of environmental damage only when it comes to air. When it comes to water, the assessment of the damage would be limited to the release of waste water from industry and households, the release of nutrients from cattle farms, to overexploitation of groundwater, especially in Vojvodina. The results are moving again economically, from 180,000,000 to 575,000 euros annually. If heavy metals are included in this figure in rivers, above all, in sediments, the amount of damage increases significantly and ranges from 640,000,000 euros to almost 2,800,000 euros annually. This drastic increase in total damage does not result only from high unit values for individual heavy metals, but I would not go further into professional terminology, because I do not know how appropriate this would be for the Serbian public, who wants to know what the state of the environment is, especially at the annual level, when it comes to pollution flows, and how much the recovery of pollution flows alone costs. Of course, what should also be the answer to what we present as concrete data is – who will give that money? Where did this financial asset come from? Let's move on. As for waste and dealing with it, today we talked about a waste of several tens of thousands of tons in factories that don't work anymore, and as far as we can see, we don't have feedback; those who are competent to solve the problem of waste are not even sanctioned. In Serbia, the situation is far from satisfactory. The inadequate disposal of municipal and hazardous waste, including medically, creates a great pressure on the environment. The pressure is manifested, likely that this part will be very interesting for the Serbian public, through emissions of methane from the garbage, spilling average water from non-conditional dumps, flying ash, as a consequence of spontaneous burning of waste, land pollution and taking up wild dumps. All this creates total damages of 100m to 275m euros annually. In order for this analysis to be complete from economic activity to the environment, which is, by the way, the preferred comparison in the last few years, therefore, comparable to similar analyses in EU countries, the authors I mentioned included noise, above all, in cities, traffic and industrial plants. Ecologically unacceptable is considered noise over 50 decibels. The damages are estimated to range from 57,000,000 to 181,000,000 euros annually. These values would certainly change if, for example, they included what is a trend in EU countries, which is the impact of noise on real estate prices in cities, so that the figures would be significantly higher. For the citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina, it is very important, and it is processed by this analysis, the phenomenon of Eol erosion is created by inadequate farming procedures. The result of erosion is that there is loss of the humus layer, which causes reduced fertility of land, and then loss of yield and income from agriculture, and this segment of damage has been estimated at around 80,000,000 euros annually. In order for this picture to be complete, it is necessary to include damage from other types of erosion, for example, in central Serbia, and damage to the inadequate use of mineral fertilisers and pesticides in Serbia's agriculture, but these data are not available to us. We'd like to have some dubious data that would give an adequate picture of the state of the environment and how much it would cost to get rid of it. Summing the estimated amounts, according to the available data, what would be the total value of the damage in the period when this analysis was done, is therefore between 861,000,000 to 2.5 million and 2.5 billion euros annually, respectively. If heavy metal damage is included in the rivers, this range ranges from 1.3 billion euros to 4.7 billion euros. So this is the data that was obtained from the data that was available to two authors, for which, as far as I've seen, it's true that the basis for many projections and evaluations is basic. What is also very important is that based on these estimates of damage, as you can see, millions and millions of euro amounts, the authors gave several different scenarios, namely, projected by 2013 and 2020, what it would cost to intervene financially for sustainable environmental development. Again, it's only pollution flows, not the pollution fund. To make it clear to the public in Serbia, this is all that has been deposited in water, air or land for years, so that several variations have been considered, at different levels of development, or GDP developments, and, if it were to go from that amount, the damage of around 2.5 billion euros, with different economic growth, from low, expressed in percentages, 1.80%, mean – 4.73%, and high, which I doubt we will achieve, given the financial crisis, which exceeds 2.5 billion euros by 2013. They also gave an assessment of the necessary investments in the environment in Serbia, which are very important, say, when compared to the official data you presented in the 2008 report, so I will leave it for some of the next members of the proposed law, but I think it will be very interesting for the public in Serbia to compare the parameters that are concerned and to see what values, in fact, and the state of the environment, we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17986	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. The amendment became an integral part of the bill, in the procedure. On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zeljko Tomic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17987	Madam President, I need to figure out a few things first. It seems to me our minister has a part-time job. We've been sitting here all day, he's been gone all afternoon when this important set of laws is being discussed. The ruling coalition, at least today's news from the press, is looking for deputies who will be sitting in the hall, because there seems to be no time to sit in the hall; when you look at this side, you see how many MPs of the ruling coalition, especially from the Democratic Party – one or none. So it is possible to ask for a replacement for the minister, who will be sitting here this afternoon when MPs discuss the laws. As far as this amendment is concerned, the law must be clear in order to be applicable. If he's not clear, then he's making a mistake, leading to a variety of interpretations. When it's not clear, it's hard to apply. So, what did we predict with this amendment? We predicted that Article 2 should be deleted, because it is completely unnecessary, refers to Article 30, or Article 58a. Attitude One, he's saying quite enough what's required of this article. So, "The accident prevention policy contains the operator's objectives and principles to control the risk of chemical accident." See Article 2: "The policy of preventing accidents in Item 1 of this Article must contain enough elements proportional to the hazards of accidents, based on which the operator can provide a high degree of protection of people and the environment from chemical accident." This is also difficult to understand for some of the people who rule this matter. Laws are not written only for people of the profession, laws are written for ordinary people who will read them. When someone reads a law like this, they have hieroglyphics to solve. That is why we feel that this attitude is unnecessary and that it should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17988	On Article 31, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17989	Madam Chairman, I am sorry that DS MPs are not in the O.R. right now and cannot enjoy these wonderful amendments to the opposition, but we have a meeting of the Parliament Club and an explanation of the budget in the presence of Mirko Cvetkovic, so that is why DS MPs are not in the O.R. right now. It's for the public and you, not for our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17990	I appreciate the information. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17991	In Article 33, paragraph 4 is amended and reads as follows: "at least every three years". The explanation of this amendment reads: "It is essential, and these amendments and additions of the Law are already foreseen in this article, that, if protection from accidents is tested and updated every three years, the safety report is reviewed and updated in the same period." Environmental protection is of paramount importance in the current circumstances of technological development, and three years are an operational period in which the situation can be seen, analysed and predicted. There are many important factors that need to be monitored by operators and five years would be a very long period, to which efficiency would not be achieved to the extent that it is important to be represented in the application of this law, such as the effectiveness of the response very important in protecting the environment at all. However, I will use the time I have as an authorised representative of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, so I will say a few words, although Mr. Minister is not here, something that has not been mentioned here today. I think that all my colleagues have been very comprehensively discussing these laws, and since we have come to the last set of laws in the field of environmental protection, first of all, I have to say that I am sorry that some of the other laws that are in the process, which are prepared, are not on the agenda today, because this would be much more complete for the ministry itself and much more meaningful later, in application, but I hope that soon these laws will come on the agenda. However, what I have been following in the media, I would like to hear the minister's opinion, this is the idea of introducing an object – an ecology, or an electoral object – of environmentalism and environmental protection, into schools. Of course, such a procedure and a step in education involves many preparations, many serious preparations. As I come from this very profession, I don't like that I recognize a lot of cocktails and very little serious approaches. In fact, when a new class is introduced, because of a long period of work, and only then to look at the result, education does not suffer abruptly and revolutionary procedures in this way. I know that this idea has existed for several years and the idea itself, first of all, says hello. It is extremely important, because these laws need to change our consciousness and our ugly habits, as we have had the opportunity to hear here. But all that was happening with us, and it wasn't just the result of our ugly habits, but it was the other gifts of the "merciful angel" to Serbia. So we need to raise and educate generations that we leave in the heritage of our environment, or miles in which they will continue to live. First of all, education needs to make a serious plan, then programmes, to plan teaching content, to set educational and educational goals, to define textbooks and textbooks, to set out studies, classrooms, because our schools are not flexible, to provide for professional staff. So schools have to hire some people. What I can't say hello as an idea, and I'm telling you that I come directly from education, is that this is where the current staffed staff, teachers, professors of biology and geography, and even history, which will be attended at some seminars to teach this class. Please, we all know what seminars are. First of all, says an old saying, something is to know, but great knowledge is to give. Methodics is a particular science that not everyone can do. One of the hardest jobs is professorial work – transfer knowledge. There is no need to underestimate knowledge, to create an ecological consciousness, and the way it will be passed on to young generations. Such knowledge can only be passed on by people who have been trained professionally for this particular area. We have people who are being educated, we have young staff who are being educated on a tight schedule for this area, which we have nowhere to work, and then we're going to give someone who's missing a class fund to go to two seminars; they're going to spend more time on some coffee breaks, something on the flight to catch, or not, and it's really not going to be much use. So, we expect from the Educational Council, which we had the opportunity to recently choose in this home, whose job it is, to deal with this subject responsibly, I say, whose introduction to schools I welcome, but I don't think we should skip all these steps that have been preparing for years to introduce one subject into school, and this important object, which needs to affirm a new area, to change our consciousness in part. That's why I'm talking about educational goals, which are the most important in every class, because every class that's being introduced into school knows its educational goals exactly, and they're the ultimate goal of each class. It must be known about the age of every child, i.e. the age of generation and the possibility of generation, which which generation can accept, in order not to happen, as with this electoral object – chess at schools, which did not end happily and rest, for now, only on the enthusiasm of individuals. This must be a serious action, this must be the job of several ministries, not just the agreement of ministers. What I object to, it is the most well-intentioned suggestion of the minister, not enough neither is the consent nor enthusiasm of the Minister of Education's idea. In our education years, we have the same problem, that plans and programs are created by people who have never lived a lifetime. So, if we introduce the subject of environmentalism, I would like the minister to say it out loud and clear, because children will indirectly learn about these laws that we now correct and vote, so that they can apply them in their lives, so that they have a truly valid and valid environment, I would really like to hear his opinion on how far they have arrived with that idea, because I hear and see in the media that it has been in schools since September. I don't know how many schools are prepared for that, and I haven't seen any textbooks, nor do I know textbooks, or plans and programs prepared for this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17992	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. First, let me inform you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, yes, because of our earlier commitments to RTS, we are not directly involved. There'll be a delayed transmission during the evening. The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17993	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 103 and 104. Article 103 first position – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Article 104, second position - Members of the people are obliged to address one another with respect. Of course, I respond to Mr Milivojevic's statement, the only member present in the room. I see, as the gentleman says, they're all at the Parliament Club. I don't know what he is here, what he represents here, I guess, waiting to enjoy our wonderful amendments. I respond, first of all, to what he said they could not enjoy the wonderful amendments of the opposition, which, of course, was very offensive, because the DSS Parliament Club prepared very serious 150 amendments, of which at least 25% were accepted, which means that we did not write meaningless amendments that should be diminished in this way. On the other hand, I don't think it's right for him to address his colleagues sitting in a ten-hour room like that, and now it's been 18 hours, and they're working hard. I would also like to be answered, as a representative of the party that is in the ruling coalition, whether it is a little pointless provision that MP clubs are scheduled at the time of the session, because it really doesn't make sense. Then we could all be at MPs' clubs and I don't know how to hold a session. Is it a bit of a senseless provision that in the course of the session, when defending amendments to laws that are on the agenda, committees are held, so that people cannot attend committees, which they would love very much and what is their duty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17994	Thank you. I ask the messengers to speak with respect, all of us to address one another with respect. You have no basis for the replica, Mrs Vojić-Markovic did not insult you with anything. (Srdjan Milivojevic from the place: She mentioned my name and name. ) She did not say anything offensive, and she really has no basis for replication. I'm sorry, I can't give you my word. Please, Mr. Milivojevic, don't send each other any messages and don't interfere with the work and the very working atmosphere that lasts all day. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17995	To Article 33, we have submitted an amendment which, after the words – the Ministry, adds words – to all participants in the conduct and management of a chemical incident at the level of local self-government, the province and the Republic. Why have we submitted such an amendment? Information on the modification of the process of work, on the change in nature or quantity of hazardous matter and other changes that may indicate the danger of the onset of a chemical accident, which the operator immediately changed in the report on security and the plan against accident protection and delivered to the Ministry, should be delivered to all participants in the handling and management of a chemical incident at the level of local self-government, province and republic. I think local self-government, the province and the Republic are, in fact, a graduation, and local self-government is the most interested in what's happening on its territory. I think she has the right to receive information in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17996	On the amendment, please, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17997	I'm sorry that some in this room don't understand my admiration for the amendments, I really wanted to vote for some amendments, but since I see Mrs. Vojic proposing amendments, and she herself says that these amendments are not wonderful, so my opinion denies it, I am forced to reject these amendments. Thank you. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17998	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u17999	Before I use the time foreseen for my parliamentary group, I would ask you to just tell me how much time I have available as an authorised representative and how much time total.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18000	You have 15 minutes as an authorised representative and 22 on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18001	Thank you. Before I move on to the discussion in detail and on this amendment, let me say that it's completely inappropriate for us to have had the opportunity to hear. Honestly, I don't know what the qualification of the amendments anyone proposes means, in any way. This is a totally offensive tone, which refers to opposition representatives, who are obviously interested in improving the environment, so they are trying to get answers to specific questions that they are not getting. Then, indeed, the question arises, is Mr. Minister at that MP club, since it belongs to the party you belong to? Okay, the public in Serbia needs to see this picture, that a brutal campaign relating to the opposition is being held in the media in Serbia. Our political belief is that you are slowly, but surely, really instituting a dictatorship in Serbia. What is legitimately the right of the opposition, you qualify in a completely inappropriate way and you don't get to be reminded of it. If it had been done by a Serbian radical, he would have been thrown out. So much for this House's dignity. What the SRS has been trying to prepare is some concrete economic indicators and environmental sustainability assessments. We compared this with the official data we received from the ministry's resolution, in the form of an annual report from the Control and Control Sector, but only the 2008 annual report. We also compared these data with the report on working on addressing the problem of black spots in Serbian environmental science, so the Serbian public will be able to compare the damage assessments, which is over four billion euros, pollution flows, not the Serbian state's pollution fund, and how much, in fact, the state has the strength to respond to the reform of the environmental protection system. We will really be very interested in what plans and activities will look like in the next few years, or in the next five years, and we will consider the strategy when we get an answer to the question whether you have done an analysis of the devastating actions during NATO aggression. When we get that, then we will understand that you have seriously addressed the problem of sustainable development of the environment and the health of citizens of Serbia and the surrounding countries. What previous colleagues have presented as a significant factor is the country's attitude towards developing awareness of environmental protection. Since 2000, we have been trying to understand the direction of development, which is the direction of the system changes voted for on October 5th, September 1999, or September 1999. Somehow, we don't get a clear message from the executive, and these are the parties that have gravitated the former DOS, mostly with a few exceptions. That this is true, there is a very common connection to the change of government, change of resolution ministries and direction of development. With this in mind, we suspect that this set of economic laws will put in place the right level of standards for environmental protection in the state of Serbia, namely, that we will be acceptable, for example, to highly developed EU countries. First, because of the fact that we were brought back several hundred years by fact by chemical, biological and radioactive weapons on the territory of the former SRJ, in fact, on Serbia's territory. The analysis we've come up with, an experiment that certainly does not belong to the SRS, is recognizable to you names such as Mr Pasic's last name, was made in 2004, with a projection of economic indicators of environmental pollution. It is estimated to be around four billion euros. What can be concluded from the analysis of these experts is that the highest costs will be in the energy sector – about 30%, then waste management – about 25%, water – 17%, transport – around 13%, industry – 6% and agriculture – about 3%. When it comes to air costs, it is exclusively about costs not included in the costs of the energy, transport and industry sectors. If we include them, the air quality costs in Serbia would be around 1.7 billion euros, or around 41.5%. Also, significant investments are expected in the waste management domain, on average, about 15m euros annually. What we know is that many factories that don't work, frankly, we don't know at all how these people didn't respond criminally, they're holding waste that's dangerous to people's health, hence, and the environment. You can store and destroy that waste in a certain way. Serbia, as far as I know, does not have that facility, which means Serbia must export that waste beyond Serbia's borders. It seems to me that, if I understand the data correctly, such a facility is expected only in 2015, or 2011, to build this facility, which will say by then the total value of the damage assessment, the economic value of the damage assessment, will certainly be multiplied, because, as far as we've heard, these are the official data of the people representing your portfolio, there are no financial resources, nor the people trained to deal with this problem. For example, the cost of recycling existing manure will start to appear by 2009, was the forecast of these experts, worth at least 2.5m euros a year. The operational costs of the waste collection system will grow to about 70m euros annually at the end of the observed period. The recycling costs foreseen in the second phase will average around 14m euros annually, while operational costs would rise to 15m euros and stabilise there. As for investment costs, the investments of medical and dangerous industrial waste, around 40m euros are expected, while the cost of treatment and transport of hazardous waste would be around 17m euros annually. When all necessary capacities are built, and we know that it will not be soon, operational costs of handling hazardous waste will increase to around 14 million annually in 2014 – projection based on the available data from these experts. The total investment costs in energy are estimated to be over 800m euros, some 50m of which are related to refineries, the rest to power plants, and I will talk about refineries later, in a comparative analysis with official data provided by the state. So I will agree with my DSS colleague, Milica Vojić-Markovic, that we do not have official, reliable data on the basis of which we can operate and understand the state of the environment, therefore, and what impact in such a way is devastated environment on human health. The operating costs will, according to an estimate, rise to 100m euros in 2014, with around 10% of the operating costs being borne by refineries and other power plants. Therefore, in order to achieve the objective of treating 50% of industrial waste water by 2014, it will take about 10m euros a year, in the form of new investments, while operating costs would rise to 17,5m euros in 2014. It is believed that after 2010, around 2m euros each year will be invested in clearing up industrial pollution zones and unconditional industrial dumps. Also, establishing a chemical control system will require investments of about 9m euros annually, half from the public and half from the private sector. The operating costs of this system will be around 5 million from 2010. Of that, one million will be borne by the public sector and the rest by the business and private sector. At least in Serbia's largest companies, it should cost about 1.5m euros a year, so on average, 50,000 euros per company. Expansion of the use of unleaded gasoline, a very interesting data, which we failed to obtain from the portfolio's representatives, will generate additional costs, amounting to around 5m euros annually, assuming that fuel consumption is rising by 5%, while the transition to diesel fuel with low sulphur content will cost between 15m and 18m euros a year, assuming that the rate of increase in the number of vehicles will be around 5% per year and that the share of used vehicles will be reduced to about 50% by 2014. The cost of new vehicles, according to EU standards, should be expected to be 36m euros in 2010, to increase to 87m euros by 2014. In addition, it should add costs of rigorous technical control, which includes emission control of the initial 10m euros in the observed period, which was up to 15m euros in 2014. The requirement to introduce wastewater treatment systems from cities of more than 100,000 inhabitants will require about 215m euros in additional investments, or about 45m euros a year, starting in 2010. The operational costs of these systems will be stabilised at 25m euros annually in 2014. By 2014, about a million more people are expected to be connected to sewers, requiring around 342m euros of additional investment, or 75m euros annually, starting in 2010. Also, operational costs of sewage systems are expected to rise by 17 million at the end of 2014. Tenm euros should be invested annually in improving the water supply system. The projected investments in repairing the water network should amount to around 2m euros annually, with a picture of environmental expenditure to be complete, should be added to investments in noise reduction of 1m euros to 5m euros annually, as well as investments in the radioactive waste deposit system, worth 50m euros annually. You will admit that these are very important data, which only talk about interventions for pollution flows and the resolution of what is in a certain period, but certainly projected on an annual basis. This is all the data that does not treat the true state of the pollution funds and what it looks like is the environment in the territory of the Serbian state, in which the world environment has so devastated taken its toll on, when it comes to the life and health of Serbian citizens, who are most interested at the moment. I'm going to do that analysis later with your official data, which you've received, so we're going to see what the rappers are and what deviations are, because I have the impression that this is just about intervention on current priorities, and there's a small number of them relative to what the pollution projection is based on this analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18002	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. On Article 33, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Lapčević. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Donka Banovic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18003	Madam President, I must admit that I am very sad at the moment, because we have heard that MPs do not enjoy the debate in particular, so in the future, when I write amendments, I will try to be fun texts that MPs will enjoy. To remind me, first of all, of us here, and of the citizens, the MP writes an amendment to fix the proposed text of the law, usually so, an individual member. We don't write amendments to make it fun, or some to enjoy, and some not. Along with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33, or to an existing member of this law, Article 60j. The title above this article 60j. It's an accident notice. So, in this article we have quite detailed on what all the obligations of the operator are, which is also regulated by this law, in case there is a chemical accident. This is all precisely stated, but the amendment concerns Article 3, where it states that the operator referred to in Article 1 is obliged to inform the competent authorities within a reasonable period of time about the planned measures to eliminate the medium- and long-term consequences of the chemical accident and to prevent the occurrence of the re-infection. The amendment consists of saying, "in a reasonable time" should be replaced by the words "in 48 hours". It is not good that in one law you have a prescribed obligation, which all must adhere to, so indefinitely, "in a reasonable time". You know, people have different times, someone's reasonable deadline would be half a year, some month, someone five days, and if it's a chemical accident, then it really needs to work fast, so I think we should accept this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18004	Thank you. It's about the amendment, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18005	Madam Chairman, I know there are people who can only enjoy fun, there are people who can enjoy different things, expertise, knowledge, education. I really enjoy the expertise, the education, the good amendments, and I really enjoyed it when Mrs. Donka Banovic talked about the incidents, and there's nothing ironic about it, or anything offensive, nor do I intend to insult anyone who endures the amendment. There are people who can only enjoy it when it comes to fun and having fun. This isn't a party for me, this is a very serious job for me, and I really enjoyed it, and I think this is a good amendment. If my friends from the DS were here, I'd try to convince one of them to support such an amendment. On the other hand, Mrs. Ragush claims that I offended her because I say the amendment is wonderful and interesting. I don't know what would have happened if I said the amendment was bad and unprofessional, but anyway, Mrs. Ragush, you didn't just convince me to vote for your amendment. Perhaps, if there were your fellow MPs who boycott the assembly session, Natasa Jovanovic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Nikola Žutic, and voted for those amendments, but you did not convince me. Convince your fellow MPs who have been boycotting the assembly session for days to come to the assembly session and maybe one of them will convince me. Do not lecture me on how to respect the congregation; the congregation is respected by participating in the work. I do not see Mrs Natasa Jovanovic participating in the work, I do not see Srboljub Zivanovic taking part in the work, I do not see Nikola Žutic, and as far as I know, he is not even given a warning measure. I'm asking you to let me know, but when I answered your question, did they report a leave of absence from the assembly session? Thank you. (Marina Ragush, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18006	Mrs. Ragush, there were no offensive words, you weren't misread, there's no basis for replication. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18007	I would like you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to explain to me how your colleague professionally and qualifiedly explained the amendment and on this basis appeared. If I'm not misread, then I don't know how to figure out everything he said in those few seconds. What I think is completely inappropriate is that in such a way it interferes with the work and opposition action, that is, the political action of any party. I think it's politically very incorrect, but it's about you. My colleague Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment to this bill on environmental protection. Unfortunately, I can't specifically talk about this amendment, but I can bring an end to this particular analysis, which is really important for looking at the state of the environment and how much it costs to solve pollution flows. What is presented as the conclusion after all, and to make the picture more complete, is that the cost project is around four billion euros. Total expenditure, both investment and operational, for environmental protection over a period of ten years, will be around four billion, i.e. 545 euros per capita of Serbia. Although, at first glance, very significant, let's say, when compared to estimated environmental damages from 115 to 334 euros per capita per year, in this way it might be acceptable, however, when it comes to concrete areas, which were mentioned here, and concrete analyses, how much pollution flows cost, it seems to me that the state of Serbia will really have a problem to wash out these projections in a quality way, and that it can sign a certain development of the environment behind it. What is also very important to consider, and the topic is this bill, is this ratio of economic activity and the environment in per capitulation, assuming that the number of Serbian citizens will not change drastically in the coming decades, as well as the assumption that application of precisely these measures and standards imposed by the EU in order to reach this large highly developed family could result in a 50% reduction of damage by at least 50%. Therefore, it can be concluded that the benefit/cost ratio would vary from 1.1 to 3.1 after the first decade of application. All of this has been done, precisely, to show a real picture of the environmental state, pollution flows and how much financial intervention they are, in order to give a prediction and a possible projection, therefore, make some guidance, but we tried to get an analysis of the cost of environmental pollution effects and we failed. We hope that in some future period, let's say that such an analysis will be made not only on an annual basis. Interesting data are, my colleague Dragan Stevanovic also invested a solid number of amendments on an overall set of environmental laws, an analysis of the situation in the areas, and, for example, in the environment industry. In total industrial production today in Serbia, the dirt industry is participating with over 50%. The majority refers to energy production, which is dominantly produced from fossil fuels, which represents a serious pressure on all aspects of the environment, therefore, both air and earth and water. The fact is that care for the environmental management system, firstly, was run by the Chamber of Commerce, which we see as a central system in this sense, trying to break down into several hundred chambers of commerce. This fact should point to the state's attitude in terms of the sustainable development strategy of the environment. When it comes to industry, the area of recycling should be mentioned. It would be important here, if Mr. Minister were here, to hear how much this area's affirmation was in the period, let's say, when this sustainable development strategy was being adopted. I must mention here that in some European countries the area of recycling is number one. In Serbia, we cannot remember that there was some propaganda material that should raise awareness of what recycling brings and what it means for the entire environment. When it comes to agriculture, although Serbia should be based on the development of agriculture, it seems that in our case, unfortunately, everything is in complete contrast with this. Serbia today does not know what the use of artificial fertilizer is on an annual basis, or how much the use of chemical plant protection products is. Thus, there is no precise data as to the relationship, therefore, of these funds to the ground and water, both surface and underground. When it comes to energy, it is important that Serbia today produces more than 50% of primary energy from dirty technologies, also through the processing of phosphorus fuels. At the same time, for the past nine years, after democratic changes, we do not remember that something concrete has been done, in terms of providing some alternative energy sources, which would not bring such a pressure on the environment in this area, not to mention energy efficiency. If Mr. Minister were here, we'd probably hear what's concrete in these nine years, in terms of reducing the press to the environment, done. We've had opportunities to hear that it worked in case of concrete incidents and concrete contaminants. Also, what should be the assumption, information in light of these system solutions – what exactly was done, regardless of what you were in the vault for a while, because you took responsibility to bring about changes that should mean sustainable development of the environment in Serbia? In doing so, we still do not have official information on the environmental pollution fund in Serbia, which I think would be valuable. Thus, the economic assessment of the damage that has taken place would definitely give the most objective picture of the state of the environment and the health of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18008	On Article 36, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Radovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18009	The President-in-Office, we have submitted to Article 36 a amendment amending the position of the 1st member, which speaks of the provision and implementation of the National Environment Protection Programme, which brings the Government, for a period of at least 10 years. That is, therefore, proposed in law. We propose that the National Programme for Environmental Protection, as a comprehensive act, still brings the National Assembly, as a representative body, for a simple reason, which is the only place in which the voice of the opposition can be heard, or the only place that Serbian citizens can speak their word through their national representatives. This adoption of the National Programme by the Government, likely, on a proposal from the minister, will be a matter that is closed in a narrow circle of people and which the public, which is particularly interested in protecting the environment, will not be able to influence, and we believe that the National Assembly is the right place to bring in the National Environment Programme. We have just heard that MPs are taking very seriously part in the work of the Assembly, especially the MPs of the ruling parties, which is clearly mentioned by the number of MPs present in the ruling coalition. We also heard that the budget rebalancing was personally explained by the prime minister's group. We at the DSS have tomorrow's meeting of the Parliament Group, so I'm very interested in whether the prime minister will also allow us to explain the budget rebalance? I am even more interested in whether Friday it will come to all MPs, the Serbian public, to explain the same budget rebalance, or whether the rebalancing, as it has been delivered, will be explained by Finance Minister Verica Kalanovic, Sasa Dragin and other ministers who are certainly not professional and competent? Now that I've taken my word for it, I'll only speak for a few dozen seconds. There's material here next to me that weighs about eight kilos. It represents amendments only to this set of laws in the field of environmental protection. When this material, which we have all received, is multiplied by the number of MPs, it turns out that more than 15 kg of material has come for this session of the Assembly, according to the MP, and over 3.5 tons of material for all MPs. Translated into figures, along with the material and along with the press, it is worth more than 7.8,000 euros. In the era of the general crisis, one kind of savings could also be sending amendments, forwarding to the MPs, can be organised by electronic means, as we have suggested several times. I believe this is the most picturesque example. I think the Secretary of Parliament should consider this proposal and send all the amendments in future and receive them by e-mail. After all, we live in the 21st century, in a century of communication, so it would be logical to act this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18010	Thank you. On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Yes, there is a word Mrs. Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18011	Thank you. I'm just going to resort to a constructive remark from a DSS colleague. So much for the campaign that's being conducted, about the amendments the opposition's been making. As we can see from the cost analysis, it would be more expedient to send amendments by electronic means. Then, most likely, there wouldn't be a story that would be very badly founded in the media that is regimeally controlled. On the other hand, a sad picture of Parliament is sad, but it is very useful for the public in Serbia, because this is the relationship between the ruling coalition and the set of laws, as presented to us. We fully agree on the most significant environmental laws, in another context of the law that will definitely change the picture of the health situation, a medical picture of Serbia's citizens' health. The public should only remember - these empty lines, which speak, in themselves, are sufficient. In the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, I wanted to talk precisely about a parallel analysis, bone analysis, or cost analysis, that is, by contaminating environmental flows. This report, the Annual Report of the Department of Control and Control of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, was only received, unfortunately, when we started working on this topic. So it was hard for us to read this number of pages in the work process itself and make a parallel analysis that should give a more objective picture. One of the suggestions would be that next time it would be timely, then it would be easier for all of us, because we had 49 points of the agenda. All of this should have been handled in an argumentable manner, especially in exceptional circumstances, when the entire parliamentary group falls to only one MP, who should talk about various areas, about each item of the agenda. The Department of the Ministry of Environmental Protection prepared several pages of the report, which are very important to us. In the reporting period, according to the official state report, the priority was to improve the situation at the site of the largest polluters, which in their work could pose a major threat to the environment, and mentioning the southern industrial zone in Pancheva, RTB "Bor", "Ju-Es-Stil" from Smederev, thermal power plant, etc. For these operators, action plans have therefore been developed whose implementation has been controlled by the Ministry. In the area of protection of water from pollution, from May to the end of September, it is also the 2008 issue of intensive surveillance and imposed measures and is an integral part of this report on water pollutant control. The contaminants mentioned here are slaughterhouses, milkers, coolers and other objects. There is a particular emphasis on the activity on the pollutants of the Great Back Channel, which we will talk about later, because in the previous session there was intervention when it comes to this point, as far as environmental protection is concerned. What was important to us from the SRS Club of Representatives for this comparative analysis, bone analysis, which we just presented, is the implementation of action plans, which are also in this report. Therefore, working groups for Pancheva and Bor were formed by the environment and spatial planning minister to improve the state of the environment. For Pančevo, on the basis of the work group's conclusion, a document is drawn up by the General Action Plan for Pancheva, with a projection by 2020. We're very interested to see what this document looks like. We assume he's still in the design phase, he's not finished, so we can't get the final text, but we'd like, in a way, to participate in all of this, given that a good part of the Panchev residents, we have MPs who are from that area and for months and months there are terrible environmental problems. The RTB Bor implemented a project to rehabilitate "The Great Curve", worth 2m euros, both the NIP and the Republika Srpska Environment Fund. It is about 2008, when the opposition won the dirty media war, drawing attention and asking for the effects of the global financial crisis on Serbia's economy and economy to be discussed. What was probably a projection in 2008, in 2008, and I guarantee you that in 2010 and 2011, it will be even worse when it comes to budgetary resources, which will say that neither the NIP nor the Environment Fund will have the funds designed to tackle these points. This project has been rescheduled by three devastations and a collector. The implementation of the 1.1m-euro project, financed by the NIP and the Environment Fund, is under way. It has been approved to resuscitate Topionica and the sulphuric acid factory. At the end of the recovery, there will be a decrease in sulphur dioxide concentrations in Bor by about 20%. What has been done so far and in what way do you think you're relieving the part that's been degraded in the long run, which is almost unusable, not to mention the health of the Bora residents? It must be mentioned that in 2006, NIS adopted a plan for measures and activities to protect the environment in NIS "Petrol", the Panchevo Oil Refinery, which contained measures and activities and investment in environmental protection for 2006 and for the next three years. We ask you, what happened by 2006? The ministry has given principled consent to the content and scope of the National Plan. The oil refinery has so far realised the following projects, but since 2006 until today: it has been revitalised the gas re-operation plant from torches, it has been invested 2,700m euros; it has been reconstructed the loading plant from above and connected with the steam and gas recovery system – four million euros; the reconstruction of the rail loading lot from above for steam and gas recovery – 2 million euros; the modular plant for the neutralisation of the wastewaters, with the installation of aluminium swimming membranes and replaced roofs on a total of 83 tanks – there is 45 million euros invested there; it has been built into a modular plant for the neutralisation of the waste gas, two million euros are installed; it is now installed for continuous monitoring of emissions, there is a total of EUR 83 million; it has been invested in the water supply of two thousand euros; it is a total of two million euros; it's worth of water supply of the watering and a total of two million euros; it's worth of watering the watering of two million euros; it's worth of the watering of the waterings; it is a total of two million euros; it's of two million euros; it's worth of the watering of the watering of two million euros; it of waterings of the waterings; it for the waterings; it of the waterings; it of two million euros; it of the waterings; it of the waterings; it of the waterings; it of the waterings; its; it's; it's; it's; it's of the waterings of the watering of the waterings; it's; it's of the waterings of the waterings of two million, the waterings of the waterings of the watering of the watering of the waterings of the waterings of the water for the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the waters of the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the waterings of the water of the watering of the watering of the water of the watering of the water, the watering of the watering of the waterings of the We ask you – what was before the implementation of these projects started and do you have a picture of the health status of citizens exposed to solid particles emissions in the atmosphere? Modernization of the port has been done. Actually, it's a project that's under way. In this respect, the design and preparation of the field for the performance of works, the contracted delivery of the main equipment, has been completed. The total value is 30m euros. It's only eight. The project, which is also under way, is the reconstruction of the mold treatment plant at the chemical water treatment plant. The project and contracted supply of 5m euros worth of equipment have been completed. Three-and-a-half invested at the moment. Within the framework of strategic projects, NIS Oil Refinery Pancevo envisioned the construction of new plants worth 500m euros to meet the necessary quality of products and meet environmental standards. What happened to that moment and how did this facility affect the complete degradation of the environment and the health of the citizens of Panchev? In line with the Petrochem Action Plan, the following projects have been implemented so far: the reconstruction of two tanks for pyrolytic gasoline, the rehabilitation and coverage of cells, the recovery of the leak of the coastal mud dump in the water treatment plant, replaced the top of the ethylene torch, the implementation of the general remont of all factories in 2005, the replaced radioactive thunderwaters, in which 110 000 euros were invested, the construction of a fire extinguisher system on the pre-inflammable liquids, in which 38 000 euros were invested, reconstruction. Projects whose implementation is under way are: the reconstruction of loading-island ramps in the plant "Ethylene". The planned deadline for realization is September 2009. 13,500 euros were invested, and the total value of the project is 2 and a half million euros. Also, the project that is under way is the reconstruction of the fuel tank for pyrolytic gasoline in the plant "Ethylene", the planned deadline for realization is May 2009, the removal of efluents created in the regeneration of the reactor "C2" in "C3" at the plant "Ethylene", the planned deadline for realization has passed. It's November of 2008. The total value at the time of the report was 100,000 euros and 12,200 000 euros were invested. What is presented here as a plan of activity is that the competent ministry participates in financing the coverage of the escalating pool by means of the Environment Fund, worth 250,000 euros, then in the recovery of the fire hose, the planned deadline for realization was November of last year, replacing the top of the ethylene torch, also in last year, the general remont of all factories, in last year. When it comes to Petrochem, acting in accordance with the provisions of the action plan, investments totalling 13mm 132 000 euros were realised. For the realisation of the investment activities agreed, investments are projected by the end of 2009, totaling around 5mm 150m euros. With the 2007 action plan, Petrochemija Pančevo defined, in addition to the short-term measures to be taken, the investment plan for the period 2008-2010 and to reduce the negative environmental impact. Recovering negative influence so far has not been expressed through measures, and bone analysis. The investment plan defined mandatory environmental protection projects to protect air, water, land and waste management. In order to protect those segments of the environment, Petrochemia envisioned the taking of technical and technological measures at the ethylen factory from 2008 to 2010, which is 12m 700 000 euros, the reconstruction of the water treatment plant's oil dump, the investment plan by 2010 is fivem euros. The preparation of land for future construction by 2010, also amounts to 2m euros, as well as a decommissioning of the Electrolysis Factory, which will be decided upon after the privatisation of the company. Azotara in Panchev was privatised by a Lithuanian-owned company, while, as a percentage of 20%, it owns the company "Universal" Belgrade. Meanwhile, this ownership relationship has changed, and this change in ownership relations has led to environmental incidents. However, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has not been involved in the definition of an action plan for environmental protection, and this part is at least clear to us. Even though it is within the jurisdiction of the owners of such plants to deal with this problem, it is still the problem of the state; if they do not have financial resources, there is a change in ownership, they stop working. We had an example of the Knauf factory in Surdulica. Three months without working and depositing remains of stone wool, which is harmful to the respiratory system of citizens of that part of the territory, without anyone answering, is just a reminder, that it is not correct to stick to such waste. What we can say, and after finding the assistant minister of your ministry that she was directed... (President: Bring the end, time is up. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing this sentence, an observation to this company, that waste is still standing, it's increased, so we'd like to ask for a spotty reaction on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18012	On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18013	Thank you, Madam President. The DSS submitted an amendment to Article 39 and intervened in two ways. In Article 70, point 1, the words 'values', in front of the words 'indicator', are changed in the word 'parameters' and in Article 70, paragraph 1, 'ie 'by tracking negative impacts on the environment', are replaced by the words 'life environments'. The text remains the same. What were we trying to accomplish? We believe that the proposer of this law predicted that the indicator is an implicit indicator, so we cannot talk about the value of something that is an implicit indicator. That is why we have introduced a new term – a parameter, which is always explicit. The second part of the amendment that we have proposed is the logical continuation of this first part and the first intervention, the need to determine that monitoring is done by monitoring the parameters and indicators of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18014	Thank you. On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic, who became an integral part of the bill. On Article 41, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Milan Lapčević, Milos Radulovic and DonkaBanovic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Lodi Gabor. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 44, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18015	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I must say that I am very sorry that Mr. Dulic is not in the O.R. This amendment has been rejected, and I don't understand the logic of why it was rejected. The arguments given are inappropriate and I don't want to comment on them. What deserves a comment, it is that there are currently 9 in the hall, and in letters - nine MPs in the ruling majority. Too bad, there were seven of them earlier, I could call them seven magnificent. Now, however, nine of them are not magnificent. This shows that if, by any chance, the government could be shot down by a simple majority, at this point the government would fall. The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 44(1), which reads - the situation and changes in the environment, based on data and information obtained by monitoring the relevant indicators, to add words – and parameters instead of points. It's a very understandable amendment. Understandable, when for political reasons, since we are politically different, some amendment refuses, but I do not understand the need for the amendment to be rejected at all costs and I repeat that I am sorry that Mr Dulic is not there. I'm sure if he heard the argument, he'd accept the amendment. Indicator, you're going to let me understand something about the terminology of this kind, is an implicit indicator, and the parameter is an explicit indicator. There are many explicit indicators in environmental affairs, and I don't see what would change a thing to add that one word – parameter. I don't understand why the amendment was rejected. If I'm not mistaken, I oversold two minutes, but I guess my party has time and that's what I wanted to say. I'd be interested in an explanation why the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18016	Thank you. On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment to Article 49. The amendment was accepted and became an integral part of the bill. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the amendment that I have submitted before the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - Tomislav Nikolic, in this case I must read fully, in order to make my intention more clear to the citizens of Serbia when I wrote the amendment, but also your intention when you rejected it. In Article 85, paragraph 5 is amended and reads as follows: "The funds resulting from the remuneration of the 1st member figure amounting to 40% of the income are the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and 60% of the revenues are the budgets of the units of local self-government". After Article 5, item 6, which reads as follows: "The funds achieved from the fee of the 1st position of this member on AP territory are 20% of the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, at 20% of the revenue is the AP budget, and 60% of the income is the budget of the local self-government units." So my proposal is similar to the same member of the current law, which I think is a better solution than this member you're proposing in this bill. Your bill will reduce revenues to local self-government. I agree with you that so far, these funds have been unintendedly used, but I don't think it's the case with all the local self-government that these funds have been unintendedly used. That's where the other problem is. I would agree that the problem of pollution in Panchev cannot be solved from the budget of local self-government, but it is a problem that can only be solved by the state. However, you are putting in a subordinate position of the municipality which does not have as much a problem as Panchevo, but definitely have it, such as Nova Ninja, or Novi Vienna, Secnica, Zitiste, etc. The truth is, these municipalities don't have that many environmental problems, because of negligence and stimuli, they don't have a business at all, so they can't have large contaminants, but they definitely have some problems that they can't solve. That might work, as you suggested, in terms of a rich state, a stable state, but not in the case of the Republic of Serbia, when the funds are not enough. The state does not have enough resources to solve the problem of Panchev, Zaječar, some major cities that have a problem with pollution, which means these smaller municipalities will never come to order. They won't have enough of their resources to meet their needs. Another thing, unlike the SNS, which advocates Serbia's decentralisation in terms of strong local self-government, you continue to advocate decentralisation only Declaratively, while in reality centralising money flows. Following your draft laws, I believe the citizens of Serbia will know that they will assess who they will trust after the next elections; I highly doubt it will be you. Finally, before I finish, I would like to invite all my colleagues to the House of the Army in Belgrade, there is currently a promotion of Mr. Borisov Pelevic's book "Raspetto Kosovo and Metohija", so, dear colleagues, please, as this debate is coming to an end, to go together and listen to this promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18018	Thank you. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, who became an integral part of the bill. On Article 50, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18019	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to join the presentation of an esteemed colleague from the SNS, but at the same time, I'm going to remind you of some things. So, we have a budget rebalance ahead of us. This rebalancing envisions a reduction in local self-government transfer funds. If you, in local self-government, reduce the transfer funds, in this sense deny them and reduce environmental protection benefits, and we know what the situation is in the local environment, that some environments cannot solve their environmental problems, they will not be able to solve them if these funds are further reduced. So, this must be taken into account, or perhaps this bill was written when some ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister and some other officials of the ruling coalition claimed that the economic crisis would bring about a better Serbia, so this was not taken into account. These things have to be taken care of. The funds from the local self-government, the harsh application of this law, cannot be taken indefinitely. We heard today during the presentation of several MPs what serious environmental problems are in several Serbian cities. We heard, too, that serious funds from the Ministry's budget should be provided to address these problems. At the same time, it is given jurisdiction to local self-governments to participate in solving such problems. How do they get only 40% of this, as foreseen by this law? So we have suggested that Section 5 be deleted and it remains as it is in the current environmental law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18020	Thank you. On Article 50, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 51, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Zeljko Tomic and Nikola Lazic. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 51, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Papuga Olena, but first Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18021	Dear Madam President, we have proposed that a change be made in article 51, so that the funds made from the fee laid down in Article 3 of this Law, which is prescribed by the Government, remains in the majority local self-government, so 60%, that they become the incomes of the units of local self-government, and 40% of the income to remain in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for one very simple reason, which in this article defines areas of special state interest in the field of environmental protection. A huge number of these areas of state interest in the area of environmental protection are those units of local self-government that barely put an end to the end and which cannot maintain their basic functions, as set out in the law, let alone invest in the protection of the environment. They are also taking that part of the compensation paid by polluters and the funds are leaving, in the majority, according to the draft law 80%, in the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. When will the central authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection, predict any possible unit of local self-government and come to any, at least place to invest certain funds, to purposely spend on protecting and improving the environment? Where do problems arise? Right where people live, in a micro-environment, in units of local self-government, and it would be most logical for local authorities to do more to improve and protect the environment. It is not logical, therefore, that these minimum funds are also being re-disbursed into the central budget, because that is the fact. In other things, the central authorities can't see, and they can't figure out how many problems there are at the place, especially in underdeveloped municipalities, so they won't even be in this area. I think this is a perfectly logical and reasonable proposal, where neither the central budget, or the government, is deprived of certain types of income, and the units of local self-government would make this income very significant and certainly be spent on purpose, because it is in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18022	Thank you. Mrs. Papuga Olena. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18023	President, I signed up for article 50, but you may not have seen my application, so I'm going to say what I'm about to say about article 50. Adding a new position in this amendment to Article 50, the budgetary fund for environmental protection remains without original income that enables the realisation of trusted competences and the fulfilment of obligations. LSV MPs have positively joined all environmental laws, but the adoption of such an amendment once again sends a message to the citizens of the autonomous provinces that they cannot, in any way, have their own resources. The funds achieved as a compensation for environmental impairment, according to the bill, are divided: 60% as funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and 40% by local self-government. If the polluter is located in the territory of an autonomous province, in which case, 40% of those assets belonging to the Republic's budget represent the income of the Autonomous Province budget. The previous laws that we have adopted these days and which have been on the agenda have established that the provinces have their own rural environmental fund, but thus remain without certain resources. What else would I like to point out? I can't imagine how it came to be that one of the MPs coming from Vojvodina would propose an amendment just like that, and it would be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18024	Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't give you my word on time. On Article 52, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojakovic-Milovanovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 68, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government accepted this amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18025	I'm talking about Article 71(1). “ From 25,000 to 50,000 dinars ” are replaced by the words “from 50,000 to 100,000 dinars. ” In fact, criminal provisions are provided for offences against responsible persons in the bodies of local self-government, because I believe that local self-government authorities must be particularly responsible for the application of these laws. The only thing that's really effective is the fines. This has so far been demonstrated in all countries that have applied laws to protect the environment. You don't need to be quiet about it, that's what to say. What is particularly sensitive and will be only sensitive in application, if it is implemented in practice what I was talking about before, which is the teaching of environmental science in schools, then local self-government will have one more responsibility, which is to remove from the school environment all the kiosks that sell unhealthy food, because if we do not flirt with this class in schools, if we really want to change our environmental awareness, then local self-government has a great responsibility to apply these laws in this way and to participate actively. Since this is a serious source of income, I'm afraid there will be a problem in the relationship between law enforcement and local self-government, so I think criminal policy towards offenders in local self-government should be considered in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-22-0.u18026	On Article 73, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 74, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Ceran. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing's representative want a word, or does anyone else not exercise their right? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, let me remind you that for the 23rd of April 2009, early at 10 p.m., I have set a day for answering parliamentary questions on two topical issues. So, tomorrow of 10 will be the time that we will first fill with, and when this session is over, we will move to the next point of today's agenda, or we will discuss amendments to the draft law on political parties. Thank you for your cooperation.
