ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for working on the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions and the establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs attend the session of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to introduce you to article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs in order to carry out the function of the MP, except at the meeting of the National Assembly. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. The President of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman of the National Assembly, gives a word to the Presidents, or to the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered parliamentary group to the number-largest parliamentary group. The person referred to in Article 1 shall be obliged to make the requested notification, i.e. an explanation in writing to the MP within 15 days. "Mr. Vladan Batic answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14518	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for a notice, or an explanation from you, Madam President, as it is possible that the Serbian Parliament has not sat down in these times of crisis for 20 days. The last session of the Serbian Parliament was on February 13th, there was a vote on amending Rules of Procedure on February 17th and it was a question issue on February 26th, but it was not a classic session. So I am looking for an explanation, because then it is not worth constantly respecting the opposition to obstruct Parliament's work if the ruling majority does not have a session of the Assembly for 20 days. Another question, and I ask the Government for an explanation, for what reasons is the law on the prohibition of discrimination withdrawn from the agenda, and is it true that this is the initiative and the request of the SPC? The Serbian Orthodox Church has the right to its position but this cannot be a reason for changing the agenda. I will allow myself, as a believer and Orthodox, to say that the church cannot regulate relations in its ranks, but therefore, with the help of the government, it regulates relations in the government and in Parliament. And it's tragic. That church tried to execute a coup, to replace the patriarch. I don't know what bothers them there, because this law, regardless of our personal position, is a prerequisite for European integration and for white Schengen. We're giving ourselves auto goals. I don't know what bothers the arches, at least two or three of which are different sexual orientations? Why do they bother with these provisions of the law? Unfortunately, in the ranks of SPC today... Can you keep it down a little bit?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14519	Gentlemen, please allow us to hear from Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14520	So, unfortunately, in the ranks of the SPC today, we have an archeology that maintained a shameful roast after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who tried to replace the patriarch. We've got another guy who avenged the Red Beret website. We've got a third guy who had a business escort agency. We've also got a fourth one who's freed from the responsibility of paedophile. We also have a fifth picture taken on six pages for an erotic magazine. We have the sixth to hold a machine gun in one hand on September 22, 2000, and in the second skull of the child, he threatened anyone who voted against Milosevic. They allow themselves the right to influence the amendments to the law, and the Government generously accepts it. I'm looking for an explanation for why. And finally, I ask for an explanation of what the government and the state of Serbia will take on the latest UN tribunal ruling. Everyone said it was an injustice, that it was selective justice, but whether the state will do something about it, because the verdict can also be reflected in the decision of the International Court of Justice on the legal status, i.e. the legal validity of the secession declared by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I proposed to the government that the UN Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal form a media team and lead a major diplomatic campaign, that the whole world see what crimes against Serbs and other non-Albanians have been committed by KLA leaders, both Thaci and Ceku and Haradinaj, and that every day it is explained to the world that it was no struggle for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo but crime and terror. We ask that the government do something, not everyone complains, complains and wonders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14521	With regard to your first question during the regular session we could theoretically begin on 2 March, however, you know that both bodies and committees need to prepare material for the work of the plenary session. As far as your second question is concerned, I'd like to say that the government has proposed a law prohibiting discrimination and withdrawn it, it was her right. The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14522	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, based on Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ask for an explanation from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will establish a bill on the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and submit the bill to the National Assembly for adoption. We have been demanding for months, in accordance with the Constitution, to give consent to the Proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and the adoption of a law on the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. It is not at all disputed that certain opposition parties are campaigning against the draft statutes of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, it is politically fully legitimate and it is part of a political struggle, but I cannot accept and cannot explain to myself that certain parties that are very influential in the government of the Republic of Serbia are doing everything possible to avoid giving consent to the proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and what they are doing is not possible to adopt the bill on the competencies of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. From this place I would like to state that the Republic of Serbia, hopefully, is a legal state and in the rule of law, is well aware of whose jurisdiction it is. The responsibility of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina was to establish the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and to refer the proposal to the National Assembly for adoption. It was done on October 15th last year. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina adopted a draft statute with a three-quarter majority. The government of Serbia's job is to draft a bill on the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the government, unfortunately, has done nothing to get the law into the National Assembly for adoption, as individual factions from the DS have prevented the putting on the agenda of this very important act. The job of the National Assembly is to give consent to the statute and to adopt a law on the powers of the Vojvodina, and the job of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is to determine whether the adopted law and statute are in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the job of MPs, it's not the government's job, it's not the party's job to determine whether a proposal is in accordance with the Constitution or not. However, I am convinced that the proposed statute is not against the constitution, that the proposed statute contributes to Europeanisation and regionalisation, decentralisation of Serbia. The draft statute is an important step on Serbia's European path, and that is why it is not clear to me – how it is possible that certain parties are campaigning with the ideas of European Serbia, the European Vojvodina, decentralisation, regionalisation, the autonomy of Vojvodina, etc., and after months prevent the first step towards decentralisation and a very significant step on Serbia's European path, which is to agree on the draft statutes and the adoption of the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina. That is why I ask Mr Cvetkovic – when will this draft law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina be established in the Government and delivered to the Assembly for adoption? I would have another question for Mr. Cvetkovic, and I end up in Article 11. The constitution writes (quote and pray that you do not count this time): "The Republic of Serbia is a world state. Churches and religious communities are separate from the state. No religion can be established as national or compulsory. "Did the Government of the Republic of Serbia keep in mind this member of the Constitution when it withdrew the anti-discrimination law from the assembly procedure, or does the Government of the Republic of Serbia feel that the Constitution can be selectively applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14523	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the Prime Minister. The word is by Mr. Andric, as an authorised representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14524	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would first like to make one remark in the very way of this work. Madam President, it is really not right for the ruling coalition to appear, as for those parliamentary issues, and first ask each other questions in the coalition. It's not this institution of parliamentary matters for, say, me to go out, so I ask Mr. Zark Koraq. I guess this is an institute that allows the opposition and MPs to ask questions. My question goes to two addresses, one of them, Mrs Dejanovic, is yours, and the other one is Prime Minister Cvetkovic or anyone from the government. The question is simple – what happened last night, so the anti-discrimination law was withdrawn? Eight years of public debate. This latest version of the law has been discussed for two years in all possible and impossible institutions and forums. What kind of force is that? Yesterday morning, the Assembly committees mostly adopted the text of the law, with an SRS opinion being issued, almost unanimously. What happened last night, so this law was withdrawn from the procedure? What power in this country is greater than the Serbian government, than the Serbian Parliament? We got a piece of paper that lets us know the law was withdrawn, but there's no reason. There is no reason why this law is withdrawn. I believe you're ready to stick your head in the sand and let this pass, but this is a coup against the rule of law. The government passed this law, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights defends this law, defends it last night in the news, all parliamentary groups have declared themselves and are all "yes". Who's the one who's got that power? Where did that power come from? You have a duty to answer that question. Did he call Pahomey? Who called? For what reason do you let homophobia spread? The law is now being passed through this homophobia. This law is the basic law in European integration. That's what we've been telling you for two years. The right to equality is the fundamental foundation of the European Union. Don't you have the strength to vote that? Is the SPC against it? Don't act the medieval way. You were the first to come out and tell us what happened, not to send us an explanation that has more than a few numberings, but an explanation. Did the rule of law cease to exist? What are we going to discuss here today? Should we discuss how we should not hurt the feelings of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church or the Jewish community, of those who brought this law down together? Should we be careful to form the bill in accordance with their opinion? If that's what you want, it's not called democracy, it's called jamahiria. Such a system exists. If you bring him in, let us know. In the election run for office with the topic, then win the election, and enter that system. Do not drag him into phone calls at night, when the Assembly determines the proposal, when the Government determines, when all committees come forward. Now you've come, like, it doesn't matter. A member of the minority party comes out and asks: When will the law of the Vojvodina come? Call on the phone and ask! This is the only topic for today. What is this force in a country that is more important than both the Government and the Assembly and what are the motives of this force and does this Parliament have any more reason to exist, or will the laws and decisions be made in the phone talks of the president of the state with Pahomi? Come on out and tell us that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14525	To your first question, a reminder that a member of 235 gives the same opportunity to the presidents and representatives of all parliamentary groups to use it, and also the heads of parliamentary groups may ask. As far as your second question is concerned, not someone, but Mr. Cvetkovic has informed the Assembly of the withdrawal of the law and a stenogram will be forwarded to him with the content you have presented. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14526	I have a question for you, National Assembly President, and for Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, but first this for you. You know very well that the vast majority of MPs, almost a month ago, sent a request to the National Assembly to hold an extraordinary session to discuss seven laws in the field of environmental science that have unanimously passed committees, as such. It is that they were proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but given the atmosphere and the situation in the National Assembly, it was necessary to put the proposal on the agenda, to schedule a day to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with those seven points, as it was a non-conflict session that would be completed relatively quickly and where seven laws, which are important for this country, and ultimately, would be included in a package of those laws that the ruling coalition claims are very important for the whole EU accession process, would be completed. You didn't do it. On the contrary, you waited, probably again on the principle of various phone calls and announcements that are out of the public eye, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia schedules a session with these and additional laws, so you scheduled that session three or four days before the deadline for an extraordinary session could be held and you successfully completed, and then within 24 hours you became aware of it or the government became aware that the session could not be concluded, and perhaps you could not, you could not know that, and then you withdrew the proposal with an explanation that the draft of these laws would be on the agenda at the beginning of the regular session of the National Assembly, and that means starting on March 1, then on March 2nd and beyond. Instead, the government of the Republic of Serbia submits a proposal for a new session, the first session of the regular session of the National Assembly, with the second agenda, which has nothing to do with this previous agenda. You could have read it in the paper, in that little edition and that little media space that the DSS owns today, that we said that we no longer want to come to the consultations that you're holding, because obviously those consultations have no effect. The reason for coming to consultations with you would be that happiness is to successfully agree on some work plan for the next month or two, on some agenda, on what the Assembly needs to do. No, your idea of holding consultations consists of inviting us to consult as soon as you have scheduled a session of the National Assembly with the proposed agenda, so that at these consultations, we will be asked not to tolerate the amendments, to report as little as possible, to watch that session pass as soon as possible, at the expense of those citizens of Serbia who chose the MPs, whose right and obligation is in this National Assembly to represent their interests. That's what you're doing. For the last 20 days, this assembly has been in magnifying, starting with the way you changed the Rules of Procedure, not entering the contents of what they mean, and they don't mean anything, because you're going to have to hold a session of the Administrative Committee to interpret what you've adopted. The way you did it shows a huge step towards collapsing anyway fragile and almost no atmosphere in the National Assembly. This will continue, of course, without the desire to contribute to the negative atmosphere in any way to the DSS MPs. We won't do that, but the way you behave, the way you run the Assembly, instructed by individual heads of the ruling coalition groups, is something that is extremely inappropriate and extremely harmful to the work of this institution. What you have shown in the past 20 days in the field with your government friend, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who has gone to some "Serbian Davos", to Kopalnik, and I guess that's why we can't hold a session, because the government would like collectively to ski, what you're doing is blocking Parliament, you and Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, and especially the president of the state, Boris Tadic, you are the main blockers of this parliament's work, and not those who are trying to talk about their rights and rights of citizens who are damaged because of the mandate or I don't know what else. And on that point, I'm thinking of both groups, I'm not going to stand on anybody's side... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But you're not capable of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14527	Mr. Aligrudic, environmental laws have been delivered. However, the president of the Environment Committee has asked that the debate on these laws be postponed for a period of regular session and will be so. As for the second part of your comments, I'd like to say that we scheduled this session on February 28th, and today it's March 5th. So it was time for the MPs to prepare and participate in the debate. As for your findings, the meetings with the heads of the parliamentary groups are held in order to ask the representatives of the minority not to write amendments and not to participate in the work, on the contrary, we have always asked that you participate most actively in the work, but not in the work. Mr. Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14528	First of all, I'm asking the Prime Minister if there are enough blankets, skis on the Kopalnik...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14529	Mr. Todorovic, apparently the harassment of the Assembly comes from the SRS parliamentary group. I would ask you, or I would remind you of this as the first among the same in that parliamentary group, and please allow us to work in an atmosphere that is civilized. Don't speak from the scene, or I'll give you another warning. Go on, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14530	To try to ask questions, very concerned about these climate changes, I ask the question – is the government provided enough for us on the Kopalnik...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14531	Mr. Todorovic, I ask you and I urge you for the second time to allow the influence of the SRS MPs to continue to work in a decent atmosphere. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14532	So are they secure that they do not catch cold, so that after returning to Belgrade they can regularly carry out their activities? Are they secure against radiation, since they're four, five hours a day in front of state television cameras? I am expressing concern and I ask you to influence the Prime Minister that these absences in order to record are reduced to the least possible extent, since Serbia needs a government to work, not a government to take pictures. Next, I ask you, when will the National Assembly agenda be the proposal of the Statute of the Vojvodina? I think every kind of public debate has lasted long enough, I think for unwarranted reasons...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14533	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, we won't be able to do this. Mrs Pop-Lazic, you are the deputy head of the Parliamentary Group, I remind you because your MP group participates in creating inappropriate conditions for Parliament's work. Go on, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14534	... Therefore, because it is necessary for us to attend a session of the National Assembly each with our position, to make a statement on the proposal of the Vojvodina Statute and to stop being the subject of debate among political parties, citizens of Serbia who are very upset that there is one act with which some are not, and not to enter the assembly procedure because of the will of the majority in the Serbian Parliament, which has already shown its position to the Statute at the meeting of the Vojvodina Assembly. The third question – does the government know what agreement they have reached in The Hague tribunal of persons, Serbs who are being released...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14535	Mr. Markovic, I'm warning you, you're banging with your right hand and you can see it. I give you a warning. Go on, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14536	I would ask you to add all that you have to tell the MPs who are disturbing me, to let me finish at least one thought from this pay phone, and then express the measures you've predicted, because this is how it seems to me, and you're disturbing my discussion, and God forbid I read what I've been saying today, I'm not going to find any meaning and any connection, but I'm going to keep trying. So, does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have any knowledge of whether Serbs who are being released or sentenced to prison sentences for the duration of detention are agreeing with The Hague tribunal, prosecutors and judges? Is that why someone else gets a lot of high sentences? Is there any kind of protection and defence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, apart from public statements, could provide to persons, Serbs, citizens of Serbia who are in The Hague tribunal, who are being treated unequally and who behave unequally in front of The Hague? One more question for you. Today I witnessed fierce attacks on the Serbian Orthodox Church, I belong to it with my soul and my being, and I do not allow anyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to disrespect the dignitaries of the Serbian Orthodox Church. My religious beliefs, my desire for my church to preach morality and what you're talking about today, the withdrawal of the law, one routine thing, are not being questioned why the motionary withdrew the law, these are insinuations, but if a church influenced, all churches affected. Do not single out the Serbian Orthodox Church, all churches agree that some members of this law could not implement it. I guess you don't want churches to be punished for preaching morals. So, according to Article 21, it is forbidden to discriminate against two men who want to get married in a church, the penalty is from 10 to 50,000 dinars for a person who discriminates against them in that way. Have you thought about that? Have you thought about the fact that this law didn't pass in Germany, that it didn't pass in the U.S.? It is in the Netherlands, it is in Sweden. Is this law contitiated by son qua non, without him we cannot join the EU? (President: Time. Let's adopt him last. I'm sorry, but I'm sure you'll allow me at least 15 seconds that you took to remind me of MPs who don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14537	Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you have begun the meeting of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, harshly violating this new Rules of Procedure. No matter how much I respect Mr Batic, as an MP and his right to speak as an MP and to ask a question, you have abolished his right to this new rules of procedure. And there's no dilemma. However, you are violating the Rules of Procedure and giving the word to Mr Batic. Let me remind you, Mrs Dejanovic, Article 235, his fourth position says: "The president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, gives a word to the Presidents, or to the elected representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the president to the most numerous parliamentary groups. "Please tell me, on what basis you gave Mr. Batić the word. Suppose there are ten individual MPs in this room. Please, I don't mind, but will this right be able to use the other ten MPs based on the analogy you applied to Mr Batic? I'd like you to answer this question immediately, if you can, and stop the time. (President: I'll give you an answer when you've finished your exposure. All right, I'll wait. Second of all, you've violated Article 205. Rules of Procedure, on 27 February, we submitted a request before the SRS Parliamentary Group to seek, on the basis of Article 205, a thematic session called by the Prime Minister and some other ministers to discuss all the facts and consequences of our country's co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The reason for calling this session, I assume it is clear to all, is the verdict of Serbia's highest political, military and police summit in The Hague, which is the condemnation of posthumously Slobodan Milosevic, that is, his policies. Normally, we believe that this verdict will have far-reaching consequences for Serbia, that they can hardly be measured, that I am free to say that they may be much greater and more harmful than they were when they bombed, I don't mean the loss of life, I mean the material losses we've had. Also, this condemnation will have consequences for the state of Serbia in the International Court of Justice in The Hague, related to the United Nations resolution, which should assess whether Kosovo has declared independence against international law, with this verdict made, and it is very precise that they were convicted because there was a joint criminal plan to banish Albanians, so something is something that can have extremely great consequences for us as a state. You know that, in certain cases under international law, certain parts of the state can declare independence, among other things, are former colonies, parts of states that were under military occupation or parts of states where a national minority could not express its national, religious, cultural and other needs that would have been granted to them in a country where these rights were regulated. What is particularly worrying, Mrs. Dejanovic, is your statement to the team on the occasion, where you say you might schedule that session when the Serbian Parliament decides. Remember that only the day before that you received a request... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Take away my quote, please, that you have received a request from the ZES for an appointment of the same session, according to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, the thematic session at which questions will be asked, and you have done so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (President: I thank you. ) It is obvious that there are MPs of the first order and MPs of the second order here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14539	Mr Todorovic, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups would be totally disproved if Article 93(3) did not give rise to the right and the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups that, if there are more, by mutual agreement no more than three participants in the debate that have the right, each speak for one to five minutes. Unless mutual agreement is reached, the right to speak after one to five minutes has three MPs who first apply for the word, which I have defined to give the word to Mr Batic. Since you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, the MPs will declare whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Also, I would like to tell you, as far as the proposal you made regarding Article 105 is concerned, I have forwarded your proposal to the MPs and to the Government and we are agreeing, and I am businessly obliged to schedule that session within a month. So within a month, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'll schedule that session. I'll also have to coordinate the time when the ministers, who you've led to want to attend that session, can come and participate in the work. We're moving on to the agenda. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my right to comment on today's agenda, because I have been extremely hurt by watching these days on TV large gatherings in Kopalnik, great debates and exceptional concerns of many who have gathered there for the economic situation in the world, and therefore also in Serbia. I see that's what this is all about. All are in one place: tycoons, party leaders, your directors, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, and, of course, ministers who boast that everything is going well, that everything is in order, that Serbia is on the right track, that there will be no recession, that there will be no problems. And we watched it all. However, I would like to ask you a serious question. During the government I served as minister, Serbia was on the list, it was classified in America by world banks in 2B places. It is an extremely good position for investments, a good position for jobs and a good position for credit lines. Serbia has won seat four these days. It's the biggest risk countries, where there's no investment, where there's no investment, and where nothing more serious is going to be done. Is it possible that no one would mention place four at a gathering like this? We got four these days, and that's what we had during the bombing. It's extremely worrying, and I don't know what our great experts and the world's best fund-raiser, the world's best finance minister thinks about it, but I repeat, we're off all the lists and many companies are pulling out of Serbia. Imports dropped 40%, exports over 40%. In imports – the goods of broad consumption are growing enormously, and the re-promatter for the economy is dropping. It is a 40% reduction in imports, which will show the real effects only in two months, when the Serbian economy fully stops. Serbia's biggest exporter closed its factory gates, shut down the furnace -- an extreme concern for the situation that arose in Serbia. Please discuss this seriously. The place where one state's economy is being debated, about funding, about everything, it's parliament. This is where the prime minister and ministers are supposed to come in, not come in like some kind of entertainment program, so they can answer in a few minutes about serious issues. Serious subjects can't be discussed for two minutes. Gentlemen, please come to your senses and take this House seriously. I repeat, this four for the ruling coalition is a major concern. Ask around. We had all the celebrations and press conferences here when we got 2B, and we expected 2A, we were close. That was during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. You know exactly what this is about, Mr. Vlahovic! Now he hides from the people that the country comes into a very difficult situation. The funds are gone, you can see the amount of funds in the budget. You're opening construction sites that were opened three years ago and you're distracting people with some affairs, for which you're extremely great masters. You're not going to tell us exactly what's going on in the Army. You're holding party gatherings. And this in the Bath is a party event. (President: Time. ) And you did not answer what we asked: who bought the money that the National Bank of Serbia sold to preserve the stability of the dinar? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14541	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Riza Halimi and Donka Banovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended: Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. Please don't disturb me, or I'll be forced to take measures. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Thursday, March 5, 2009, so, within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the session of the Second Extra session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 and the minutes of the fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered, in writing, any objections to the minutes from those sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 November and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17 and 22 December 2008. For 126, no one, abstentioned one, voted 28 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I put to the vote the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 18 and 19 December 2008. There were no votes for 123 against and abstentions, not 9 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fourth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I am voting on the Paper of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28 and 29 December 2008. For 126, there was no vote against and abstention, 7 of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I am voting on the minutes of the 2008 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 30 December 2008. For 125, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. I put to the vote the minutes of the 2008 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 12, 14, 15, 16, 19 and 21 January 2009. There were no votes for 126 and no abstentions, two out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2009 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session. I am voting on the minutes of the 2008 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 22 and 23 January 2009. For 127, there was no vote against and abstention, not one of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the 2008 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, held on 26, 27, 28, 29 January and 2 February 2009. A year. There were no votes for 126 and no abstentions, two out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I put to the vote the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17 February 2009. There were no votes for 126 and no abstentions, two out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal for an extension of the agenda and proposals for a merger of discussions. I remind you that by letter dated 4 March 2009, the Government has been in accordance with Article 145(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrawn from the assembly procedure draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. 1. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the law on the insurance and financing of foreign trade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted two out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 2. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the discharge of judicial duties, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 December 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, there was no vote against and abstention, not one of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to suspend the judicial office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 December 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, there were no anti and abstentions, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government proposed that the draft law on agriculture and rural development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 December 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For four, there were no abstentions against 121, three of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 5. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on official use of language and letters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 127, with abstentions, voted one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Six. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the revised European Social Charter, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 126 abstentions, there was not one, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Seven. The government proposed that the draft Standardisation Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 December 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted two out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 8. The government proposed that the draft law amending the general administrative procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 January, be put on the agenda. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 127, with abstentions, voted one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine. A group of 21 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's MPs suggested putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the value added tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 January 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 12, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ten. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostres, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga suggested putting on the agenda a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 11 July to remember the genocide in Srebrenica and all innocent victims of the wars of the 1990s in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 January 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 10, against 107, there were no abstentions, no vote was 14 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 11. The government proposed that the draft Act amending the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 12. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested putting the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 125, there were no abstentions, no six votes, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 13. The government proposed that the proposal for a chemical law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 February 2009, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted six out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 14. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on biocidal products, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 124 abstentions, voted seven out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 15. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 123 abstentions, voted eight out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on packaging and packaging waste, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of six, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 16. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote seven out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 17. The government proposed that the proposal for a protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2009, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 18. The government proposed that the draft Nature Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2009, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of eight, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 19. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Air Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 124 abstentions, there were no four votes, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 20. The government proposed that the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against one, the abstentions were not voted by three, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 21. The government proposed that the draft law confirming the Convention on High-Technological Crime be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, none of the abstentions were voted by three, of the 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 22. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 18 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, none of the abstentions were voted by two, of the 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. 23. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime, which refers to the incrimination of acts of racist and xenophobic nature carried out through accounting systems, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 18 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, no one, abstentioned one, voted two out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 24. The government proposed that the draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 February 2009, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, none of the abstentions were voted by two of the 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 25. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, none of the abstentions were voted by two of the 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 26. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Protocol on Amendments to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, none of the abstentions were voted by one of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 27. The government proposed that the draft employment and unemployment insurance law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2009, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted three out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 28. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Chamber of Commerce Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 125, there were no abstentions, not three, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 29. National MP Nada Kolundžija proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the motion for a decision on the termination of office and election of members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution: a proposal for a decision on the termination of office of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Finance Committee on 24 November 2008 and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Finance Committee on 21 January 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, there were no votes against and abstentions, four of those who were present, 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 30. National MP Nada Kolundzija suggested that, by emergency procedure, the list of candidates for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, submitted to the National Assembly on 29 December 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, there were no votes against and abstentions, five out of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 31. The Education Committee has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a resolution of academics Mikhail Đurić as a member of the National Educational Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There were no votes for 123 against and abstentions, seven of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Thirty-two. The Education Committee has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Prof. Dr. Alexander Lipkovsky as a member of the National Educational Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, there were no votes against and abstentions, four of those who were present, 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 33. The Education Committee proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Assembly list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There were no votes for 126 and no abstentions, three of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 34. The Education Committee has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Dr. Aleksandr Jovanovic as president of the National Educational Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, there was no vote against and abstention, not one of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 35. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, is based on Articles 90, 90, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the agenda be extended to the point of the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Serbian Health Council, which the government submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, there was no vote against and abstention, not one of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Board of Education, on the basis of Art. 90th and 42nd. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to conduct a joint single search on: – Proposal for a decision on the resolution of academics Mikhail Đurić as a member of the National Educational Council, – Proposal for a decision on the resolution of Prof. Dr. Aleksandr Lipkovsky as a member of the National Educational Council, – The Assembly List of Candidates for the members of the National Educational Council, – Proposal for a decision on the resolution of Dr. Aleksandr Jovanovic as president of the National Educational Council. Does a representative of the Proposer, MP Zoran Shami, president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 127, there were no votes against and abstentions, not two, of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: – Proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination, which was withdrawn, we do not declare ourselves, – Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, – Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and – Proposal for a law on parent books. Also, National MP Nada Kolundžija proposes to carry out a joint single search on: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on High-Technology Crime – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the Financing of Terrorism – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the Incritation of the Part of the Crucial and Xenophobic Nature Done Through Computer Systems – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trade in Human Beings, – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, and – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Facilitated Procedure for the issue of Visas. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. You'll get your word once we've finished adopting the agenda. Please, I'm still talking. When I'm done. ) There were no votes for 126 and no abstentions, two of the 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundžija, on the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 142(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out a joint uniform search on: – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government on 24 October 2008; – Proposal for a decision on the discharge of judicial duties, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration on 24 December 2008; – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Justice and Administration Committee on 24 December 2008; – Proposals for a decision on the termination of office and selection of a member of the Council of the State Audit institution, and this: Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of a member of the Board of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Committee on 24 November 2008 and a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Committee for Finance on 21 January 2009; the Court of Justice of the Committee of the European Parliament for the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Committee for the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the European Court of the Council of the European Court of the Council of the European Court of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Court of the Council of Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 127, there were no votes against and abstentions, not two, of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to put on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to extend the agenda and the proposals for the merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 127, there were no votes against and abstentions, not two, of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, in general. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, submitted by the Government (number 713-484/09 of 17 February 2009); 2. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, submitted by the Government (number 400-2275/08 of 29 September 2008) 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on High-Technological Crime, submitted by the Government (number 011-486/09 of 18 February 2009); 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism, submitted by the Government (number 011-487/09 of 18 February 2009); 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol to the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the Incrimination of the Part of the Rastistic and Xenophobic Nature committed by computer systems, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-488/09 of 18 February 2009); 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings, submitted by the Government (011-489/09 of 18 February 2009); 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, submitted by the Government (011-489/09 of 18 February 2009); 8. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which was submitted by the Government (011-489/09 of 19 February 2009); 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the Facilitated Procedure for the issue of visas, submitted by the Government (number 27-2234/08 of 26 September 2008); 10. Proposal for a law on books of origin, submitted by the Government (number 20-2252/08 of 26 September 2008); 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 465-3388/08 of 9 December 2008); 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government (number 43-2955/08 since 18 November 2008); 13. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Serbian Health Council, which was submitted by the Government (number 02-262/08 of 24 October 2008); 14. Proposals for a decision on the termination of office and the selection of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution: – Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Finance Committee (number 118-2183/08 of 24 November 2008); – Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Board of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Finance Committee (number 02-142/09 of 21 January 2009); 15. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the judicial duty, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration (number 118-3626/2008 of 24 December 2008); 16. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration (number 118-3627/08 of 24 December 2008); 17. List of candidates for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, submitted by the Board of Justice (number 02-2953/08 of 29 December 2008); 18. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of academics Mikhail Đurić as a member of the National Educational Council, which was submitted by the Education Committee (number 118-429/09 of 12 February 2009); 19. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Prof. Dr. Alexander Lipkovsky as a member of the National Educational Council, which was submitted by the Educational Committee (number 118-430/09 of 12 February 2009, with a correction of 20 February 2009); 20. A summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Educational Council, submitted by the Educational Committee (number 02-432/09, of 12 February 2009); 21. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of Dr Alexander Jovanovic as president of the National Educational Council, which was submitted by the Education Committee (number 118-428/09 of 12 February 2009). We move to point 1, 2 and 10 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money PRAN AND FINANCIAL TERRORISM AND PROPOSAL OF THE MARKINGS (joint principled search) Consensual decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the laws of the agenda under points 1, 2 and 10, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 94. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate, by parliamentary groups, is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliament Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia – 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament Group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail Group Manjina – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes, and according to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that, according to the agenda points of the parliamentary group, MPs: Jovan Palalic – The DSS Group of MPs, Djordje Milicevic – the SPS-JS Group of MPs, Petar Jojic – the SRS Group of Representatives, Ivan Andric – the LDP Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, a bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, a draft law on parent books. I would just like to inform you that today's session is attended by students from the Faculty of Law at the University of Pristina. I will read the list of names, of course, I welcome them, there are: Nikola Maljević, Milos Djokovic, Milos Marković, Milica Jokić, Marija Dakić, Milena Janićjevic, Zvonko Stanković, Zvonko Sačić, Angela Balaš, Mirjana Milovanovic, Slobodanka Bajčeta, Vladimir Djordjevic, Olivera Simonović, Kristina Spasic, Arsenije Dunić, Duško Kužić, Vladica Tasic, Marko Jasic, Dragan Milojevic and Sasa Radosavljevic. [[Applause]] On your behalf and on my behalf, I welcome the students and wish them a pleasant stay at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms Natasa Jovanovic first reported. Mr. Aligrudic, as head of the Parliament Group, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14542	Not counting on this violation of the Rules of Procedure that you were about to do, so I barely stopped you, I must draw your attention that you have done at least two injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the past 10 minutes. First of all, you didn't give me your word after I asked for a word in violation of the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 100(1) of this Rules of Procedure, because I asked for the word immediately after the injury was done. The fact that it may later be stated in another attitude that the word is obtained after the previous speaker has been delivered, does not always have to be the case. What if there's no previous speaker? You've done an injury. You have done what you have done to vote on Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's proposal within the meaning of Article 142 on the merger of the agenda points, i.e. the merger of the principled search for points which, within the meaning of Article 142, have no basis for merger. It says that the laws on which a joint search is conducted must be mutually conditioned or the solutions are interrelated. What does the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, a bill on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, even those two laws, although from the same area, do not meet these two conditions, and what does this have to do with the Law on Parent Books? If you decided to change the Rules of Procedure, turn over the second sheet and respect the Rules of Procedure strictly, you should not have done these two injuries. I'm drawing your attention to that. I think it's incorrect on your part. You changed the Rules of Procedure by force, by revote, without the procedure we previously agreed to do so, claiming in all the media that you would strictly respect it. Don't strictly respect him just for the damage of the citizens who voted for the opposition and for your benefit. Respect him strictly in the interest of all of us, in all provisions, at all points of this Rules of Procedure. The word comes from the injury done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14543	Mr. Aligrudić, I have applied Article 235 and there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, as there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure regarding the unification of dots, given the relevance of matter and the need to unite.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14544	Just for the record, I'm asking us to come forward on this voter day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14545	Thank you. Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, a member of the 31st has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on your part, item one, which speaks of the vice president of the National Assembly helping the president of the National Assembly in the work. I have warned you many times since the start of this assembly and pointed out, too, and according to that previous Rules of Procedure, which was restrictive and this one led us into the assembly dictatorship, that you, as president of the National Assembly, could neither my smallness nor Mrs Judith Popovic, or a colleague of Obradovic, would consider us to be cariatides and to determine whether we belong to the Dorian, Ionian or Corinthian style, as we seem to you and what we look like. We're cariatides, we're icabans. Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, it is my obligation as vice-president of the National Assembly, selected from the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, to assist you at any time during your presidency, as Article 31 says - in the paper. I tried to help you, when I told you almost half an hour ago that you were wrong when you continued to read quickly, later your tonality fell, how your voice betrayed you and you began to speak silently, that at one point Mr Batic had not heard you at all, and most of the MPs in the hall. You can't chair the assembly like that. Secondly, you are at the beginning of the session, and look at the stenogram and this is the first page of today's synopsis that we get as vice presidents, you said nicely – I am opening the session of the First Regular Session in 2009. Article 100(3) says you have to give a word to whoever points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, immediately during a session that is under way, and it began the moment you opened it and asked the Assembly to declare that you had injured Article 100(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14547	Of course, the vice president and secretary of the assembly help me in my work, but when I have unconformed suggestions, most of the suggestions are binding for me. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14548	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected fellow lawyers, you have the opportunity to attend not a democracy of parliamentaryism but a 'democracy', you have to make a difference between that. Madam Chairman, I assume you know when to open the session. You yourself said that you were opening it the moment you spoke to us with – honored ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. In the Rules of Procedure, the opening of a session and participation in a session begins with article 86 and ends up there somewhere with a record, until a special session. I am not going to use my right under Article 235, although I could use it, because you gave Mr Batić, I will not remind you that you gave the wrong explanation, but in favour of this remark, or remarks to Mr Todorovic, when you said you gave Mr Batić your word, using his right to Article 93, that means that the session is already under way. You're distracting someone here. There is discrimination between the Members of the People. I went out and raised the Rules of Procedure and you had to give me your word right away, given that the session had begun, because you had warned me, as deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group at the time of the meeting, Mr Dragan Todorovic was present at the meeting. Please, article 37 is clear. Don't take yourself as a right more than you can or can. Please, I am obliged to preserve my dignity and the dignity of my MP group, including this entire home. So the parliamentary group is the president of the parliamentary group. The parliamentary group, it is clear that there is a deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14549	Time, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. You can't quote anything that's not related to a concrete illustration of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have a word, you can't quote. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, it is true that those who advertise the Rules of Procedure should give a word when the speaking person is finished. I was just setting up the agenda and saying the moment we finished setting the agenda, you got the word. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic will be authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group at this point. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14550	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise Article 104. I also ask the Rules of Procedure at the beginning that the Assembly in the voting day declares that Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, has injured the dignity of the National Assembly because twice during the session she said that SRS MPs, look at the stenogram if you can't remember, interfere with the Assembly. It is an insult to the MPs of the SRS, the 78 of us chosen from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, with what I now expect at 12.00 hours that this number of those who resigned yesterday will be back in possession and that our colleagues will be in the seats in a few days. As for you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I now warn you again, in accordance with Article 31, and as an MP, and in accordance with Article 1. Rules of Procedure, don't do such a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14551	Miss Jovanovic, she can't go twice the same content you were just talking about. I'm giving you a warning because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14552	You're wrong. You can give me a heads-up, but I'm the one who picked up Article 104 instead of Article 31. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14553	Please read the Rules of Procedure. You can't speak twice in the same content. That part isn't controversial, but you can't say what you just said, which is the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14554	I can't mention what I was doing before? No, I didn't answer by that article. Otherwise, I can mention what I was saying in the congregation two months ago, you can't ban it on me by article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14555	But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14556	You're wrong. I'm telling you that you're wrong, and then I'll get back to you and explain it to you by article 106, as far as the warning is concerned. As for Article 104, you just broke it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14557	Gentlemen, pounding is a distraction. The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14558	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you would have to explain both to the public and to the MPs by which you told the member the reminder to Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. Article 106, says, please stop the time for me: "The warning is expressed to the People's Messenger: who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly." Did you invite Miss Natasha Jovanovic? Yes, it is. - "Who talks before he asks and gets his word. "It wasn't like that, she got the word. - "Who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. "The advertising of the Rules of Procedure is on the agenda. - "If a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. "That didn't happen. – "If it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "She didn't do it either. "If he uses swearing and offensive expressions. "Far be it, she didn't do it either. "If other procedures violate order at the session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. "Please, just explain what she did to deserve the warning and the punishment that follows this warning? Or did you start applying some rules of procedure you're about to bring? We know that there must be a new Rules of Procedure, a serious Rules of Procedure that will be in accordance with the Constitution, but not with such changes as were necessary to allow you to be served by the Assembly only as a bureaucratic apparatus of the Government. According to you, the Assembly starts when ministers come down to the O.R. The assembly session was launched by the Madam Chairman when you said "opening the session" and called for Article 86. (President: Time. ) Please keep in mind how you treat the MPs of the SRS, for it is not our first time facing the presidents you were and what they were before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14559	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman, which he has already pointed out. So, Ms. Jovanovic spoke first about Article 31, which was not controversial, and then in the second report she again called on Article 31. The President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, is required to give a national MP who does not adhere to the provision of this attitude that I have read to the extent. So, I acted in accordance with Article 100 of Section 7, and Miss Jovanovic was just saying, and this is foreseen by the position of the 2nd member, Article 100, for the second time on the same subject she was already talking about, it is not allowed. In voting day, the Assembly will declare my injury to the Rules of Procedure. Do the proposing representatives want the word, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, minister of justice? Please, you'll get the word, allow me, you can answer the Rules of Procedure, but before I start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14560	Let me tell you, leather underpants won't help you, not this Rules of Procedure. It's not gonna happen. You're causing yourself problems because you're incapable of performing a basic function. I'm reporting for article 78 to point out some problems with the work of the Republic of Serbia Assembly. Madam Chairman, you'd have to take care of that. The Management Board's meeting is now scheduled at 1200 hours, and a large number of MPs have come out... I don't understand Mrs. Kolundji. Calm down, please. What does that look like? You have no right to speak to Gordan, you can invite her into the hallway. How are you acting? That is why I suggest, Mrs Dejanovic, that you should agree with the heads of parliament on how this assembly works in the first place. I guess you understand that your violence will do no good to you or to Parliament or to the state of Serbia. You had to take care of it. You apply the same thing in the Belgrade City Assembly. At all levels, wherever possible, you abuse your majority to cover up all the problems facing the state and citizens of Serbia. The best example is this meeting that happened on the Bath. There, except for the honorable exceptions, they put a hat with a pair of five-to-39 numbers in it and pulled out... [[(President: Time. (Disabled microphone.)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14561	Gentlemen, the MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly, which is under way, and it is immediately after the injury has been done. What is happening in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and in Kopalnik, in fact, cannot be and is not in accordance with Article 100(1). Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14562	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, explain to me, as I have answered my word to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you have made, I had to wait 30 minutes to get the word – you are now talking about how it should look in practice. I wanted to tell you that you violated the Rules of Procedure by giving me, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, a warning in the presence of the president of the parliamentary group. When he's here, then my function doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Now that he's out, I'll take his duty. Now you can possibly, if you think it's okay, there's some collective responsibility, there's a joint criminal enterprise in The Hague, so you took it both here and in the judiciary, and here in Parliament. I can answer for this whole side of Parliament, but while he was sitting there, with which right you remind me and at all draw the public's attention to my smallness. That's what I wanted to tell you, and you wouldn't let me make the first call, and you didn't give me a word. So I ask you now, while I am still at the pay phone, that you should make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the voting day, but think carefully, although I think the Administrative Board would have to and how to deal with it during this session and at a different point, if God were to do today, maybe we'll talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14563	In the voting day, MPs will declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14564	I'm reporting in accordance with article 100, Madam President. I'm advertising a breach of Article 105. I'm very precise. I also told the secretary, Mr. Odalovic, before I went out for the pay phone, to keep records, since this is the kind of Rules of Procedure that actually introduces us to dictatorship after 19 years of multilaterality, that I have a precise record, as vice-president of the National Assembly, according to which members of the Rules of Procedure appeared not only Serbian radicals, but others, as Mr. Aligrudic, who came out on behalf of the DSS before us. I'm advertising that you've injured Article 105(1). He says it's the turn at the National Assembly session of the old National Assembly president. Article 2 says, "Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can make the measures: warning, taking words or away from the session." You gave me a warning, for no reason at all, as well as Mr. Todorovic, the president of our parliamentary group, and Mr. Markovic, without any evidence of it – what happened to you where his hand was, at that moment the man was pulling tissues out of his right pocket, because he had a sneeze, not to wipe out tears, as some of them are crying here sitting next to me, so they run away. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you are not ready, as counterparts Pop-Lazic said, to apply such a nakaradic rulebook, the whole state is laughing, Serbian citizens say they could not welcome anything worse in the National Assembly, to us who have been voted, so don't play with these things in such a way. At the board meeting, when fines are fixed, because I at least charged them here, over 300 thousand DOS summed up, beat up by the police, 30 days away, but we shot down that regime. We'll do the same to you, because you won't be able to do it with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14565	Since there is no violation of Article 105, since I took care of the order in the session of the National Assembly, I give you the warning measure, in accordance with Article 100. Do the proposing representatives, Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister and Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14566	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this united debate on the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to stress their importance in the process of joining our country, harmonising rules with EU rules, and especially their importance for visa waiver for Serbian citizens for EU countries. In the shortest lines, I'd like to give you a presentation of the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. The scope of international legal aid in criminal matters, according to applicable rules, is governed by the provisions of the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, in the case of special proceedings, i.e. the procedure for the provision of international legal aid and the enforcement of international contracts in criminal matters and the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons. Given that certain conventions of the Council of Europe and of the United Nations have been ratified in the area of international legal aid, including the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Extradition and the European Convention on Transfer of Procedures in Criminal Matters, as well as the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the need for harmonisation of domestic legislation has been demonstrated with these international documents. In addition, provisions on international legal assistance with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia need to be harmonised, for the reasons that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were last amended in 2003, at the time of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and according to the rules in force, certain powers in the procedure of international legal aid in criminal matters were shared between the authorities of the state union and the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Starting with these reasons, the Ministry of Justice, as the competent state body for the preparation of regulations in this area, concluded that it is more celery to develop a special law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which would be much more detailed in the area in question than has been governed by the Criminal Procedure Act so far. The bill consists of six chapters. The head first contains the basic provisions, and among them would highlight the provision of Article 1. The draft law, which contains the same principle as the applicable provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is that this law only applies where certain issues of international legal aid in criminal matters are not governed by international contracts or such contracts do not exist. The draft law provides that international legal aid covers the extradition of the accused or convicted, the takeover and admission of criminal prosecution, the execution of criminal convictions and other forms of international legal aid. As the competent authorities for providing international legal assistance are primarily designated courts and public prosecutors, and for certain actions in this process are responsible for the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. The special paper is that the draft law provides a precise set of application applications for international legal aid, and it is also prescribed that in urgent cases for applicants can be delivered via Interpol, i.e. that the competent judicial authorities can directly supply applications to the competent foreign authorities, of course, with the existence of reciprocity. A procedure for the extradition of the accused or convicted person has been laid down by the head of the other law. According to the draft law, the extradition of the accused or convicted person to a foreign State may be allowed for the conduct of a criminal offence for which a sentence of at least one year can be imposed under the law of the two States and as regards the execution of a criminal sentence, in which case the convicted person may be extradited if a sentence of imprisonment of at least four months is imposed abroad. The bill stipulates that a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be extradited, and the bill provides for other assumptions that must be met in order to allow extradition. The law introduces the possibility of handing a person over to a foreign country under a simplified procedure, with its express consent. Since the person whose extradition is required may be ordered to be held in custody, the reasons for its determination, duration and termination are prescribed. By deciding on the plea, the competent court may decide that the assumptions for extradition or a solution to which extradition is refused have been fulfilled. Both decisions shall be subject to review by a directly higher court of appeal, i.e. by official duty, and shall be delivered to the Ministry of Justice after the jurisdiction. If it adopts a solution allowing the extradition of a particular person, the minister of justice may set certain conditions for extradition, and may not allow extradition if he considers it to be a political or military criminal offence, if extradition would injure sovereignty, security, public order and other interests of essential importance for the Republic of Serbia or if no guarantee of fair trial has been reached in the process of trial in absentia. The provisions of this chapter of the law also provide for rules requiring the state to hand over a person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted in the Republic of Serbia or given him criminal sanctions by a domestic court. Chapter 3 of the Bill of Law contains provisions on the takeover and enforcement of criminal prosecution. A plea for takeover, prosecution and criminal record shall be delivered by the Ministry of Justice to the competent public prosecutor, who may decide to take over the prosecution of a person accused or convicted of a criminal offence falling within the jurisdiction of the State Court of Prayer. In addition to general assumptions for providing international legal assistance, it is necessary for that person to have a residence or residence in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to maintain a prison sentence here. The adopted procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of domestic law. The provisions of this Chapter provide for the possibility for a foreign State to be prosecuted by a suspect or accused of a criminal offence falling within the jurisdiction of a domestic court. Chapter four of the bill regulates the execution of domestic and foreign criminal convictions in the territory of a State whose court has not reached a verdict. Unlike the legal solution so far, the possibility of executing a foreign criminal verdict is no longer an exception, which is in line with the principle of providing international legal assistance in the broadest form. In addition to fulfilling the general assumptions, it is necessary for the convicted to have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, to have a residence here, residence or to maintain a previously imposed criminal sanction. Before making a decision, the court will hear the convicted of fulfilling the assumptions for the execution of a foreign criminal verdict. If the court adopts a plea, it will bring a foreign criminal verdict in the sentence of the verdict and impose a criminal sentence which cannot be more severe in sanctions imposed by a foreign criminal conviction. The law also provides for a solution to reject the application. A Serbian citizen convicted in a foreign country can continue to maintain criminal sanctions in the Republic of Serbia, if he agrees and if it improves prospects for his social rehabilitation. The law provides for the possibility of the execution of a domestic court verdict being required by the state. A convicted person who maintains criminal sanctions in the Republic of Serbia, consisting of deprivement of liberty, may be transferred to a state of his nationality, i.e. residence or residence for the purpose of continuing to maintain criminal sanctions. Chapter 5 of the Law proposal contains provisions on other forms of international legal assistance, such as the execution of certain procedural actions, the application of certain measures, the exchange of information, the delivery of letters or cases relating to the criminal proceedings in the State of prayer, and the temporary surrender of persons deprived of liberty for questioning by the competent authorities of the State of prayer. The provision of those forms of international legal aid will be refused if general assumptions are not met and in the event that a criminal offence for which the aid is sought is brought before the domestic court against the same person. The basic provisions of this chapter set out the principle of speciality, which protects the rights of persons who agree to give testimony in criminal proceedings conducted in a foreign state as witnesses or experts. This person, while on the territory of the state of prayer, cannot be detained or prosecuted for a crime he has committed earlier. The provisions of this chapter of the law provide for the possibility of forming joint investigation teams, as well as the provision of data on criminal acts and perpetrators without a request. Chapter 6 of the bill contains transitional and final provisions. Chapters XXXII and XXXIII are foreseen. The 2001 CAP ceases to be in force by the law, but under the provisions, international legal aid procedures will begin until the law enters into force. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in particular and in principle the proposed laws will be adopted, which will create a normative framework for putting the Republic of Serbia on the white Schengen list, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a normative framework will be created to combat all forms of crime more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14567	I thank Mrs. Malovic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee or the Committee on European Integration, Mr Ratkovic or Mr Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) When considering the bill, did the MPs who held the committee’s meeting give an opinion? Gordana Pop-Lazic, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Boris Aleksic? Yeah. ) Mrs Pop-Lazic wants a word, please, then Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Miljevic. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm sorry, I didn't see the minister want...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14568	Madam Chairman, I've come to this place there's no point in bringing me back to the bench to be called by the minister, and I believe Mr. Markovic agrees. You should have asked the minister if he wanted a word. You didn't ask him in time. There, don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. One more piece of evidence that you broke the Rules of Procedure, and I apologize to the Minister on your behalf. SRS Members of the Legislative Committee issued an opinion on proposals for a larger number of laws on the agenda today. In order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, please tell me, can I speak only of the first law or of all these laws, I have five minutes of time? I'd like you to interpret the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14569	Since the debate is united, five minutes about all the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14570	Thank you very much, democracy at work. In five minutes we'll be talking about three, four laws, anyway. So, the reasons for this set of laws, and here on the agenda we have some seven conventions and agreements to ratify, which date back to 2000, and some from 2001, 2003, so we also asked the Committee of Ministry Representatives - what have we been waiting for, what have we not adopted in the Assembly so far, what is behind the hill? Of course, we know what's behind the hill and we'll talk about it when we talk about the principle of this law. In my deep conviction, here I am now speaking for myself, and I believe that one of the other Members and members of the Committee will report, as reasons for the adoption of these laws, above all, for the harmonisation with the conventions called upon by Mrs Malovic when she explained this law here, with the Constitution, to speed up and make all international legal aid more effective in criminal matters. I didn't bring the agenda. Right to tell you, I thought I could talk about all these laws for five minutes, but since you're not given, it doesn't matter. We find this whole set of laws absolutely unnecessary. For what? Because we're in principle pushing for the codification of rights. I don't know why we need three hundred laws that will bear the name just as the EU requires of us. They don't know our entire legal system, they don't know that we're already regulated by some law, let's say, this first law that you've withdrawn from the agenda, the whole set of laws is regulated against discrimination, and so is this problem. Wasn't it more logical to change the CAP in one piece, add some other members, we have the Code of Criminal Procedure, but to pass a new law to go to the EU and say, "We've passed the law, it's called exactly what you want." I want to remind you and the public, this isn't something I kept track of, this is the Office for European Integration, and we heard how many MPs here today have rejected the law that the government has proposed. They say it was planned at the EU's request to pass 64 laws, that the government adopted 49, and sent them to Parliament, and you returned them today – the Parliament, they say, only adopted 17. Well, we can't adopt what you don't put on the agenda. Now it turns out to the public that the Assembly is to blame for not passing laws that are supposed to provide white Schengen. Gentlemen, in this and this economic crisis that shakes the entire set and Europe, a little bit of us, is more of an excuse than we really are, we should be working on sessions of the National Assembly of other things and not of those that we consider to be completely meaningless and unnecessary in order to settle the situation in a country that is chaotic, primarily economic and social situation in the country. This does not concern anyone, it is reportedly concerned by those who are on the Kopalnik, but between one ski resort and the other, or one and the other ski baskets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14571	Time, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14572	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is on the agenda, among other things, and I'm going to use these few minutes to read an introductory presentation about this law. So, this area is currently governed by two laws, one since 1973, it's the Law on basic data for parent books and the second law is from 1990, the Law on stem books. The very fact that these laws were passed 25 years ago, or 15 years ago, speaks enough of them not only being in line with our Constitution but also having a series of fundamental discrepancies that relate to equal protection of rights, territorial organization, protection of personal and child rights data. Also, these laws do not follow changed opportunities in related areas, and are not in line with the Law on State Administration, Family Law, the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and the laws governing the local self-government and territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which undoubtedly makes it difficult to carry out the work of those who run the parent books. These laws, due to the changed social circumstances of their adoption, also contain a number of legal gaps, or do not regulate many issues equally significant from the aspect of bodies carrying out entrusted tasks, but from the aspect of the exercise of citizens' rights. In this respect, it is particularly necessary to point out that these laws do not contain legal assumptions that allow the way in which the work of the parent books is organised to be set on new grounds adapted to the needs of the modern state administration, especially in the field of information society. In view of the above, it is more serious that, after several decades, one law regulates the area of parent books to ensure their uniqueness and authenticity as basic official records of the personal status of citizens, in accordance with the applicable European standards and principles contained in binding international acts. The proposal for a book of origin passed a comprehensive public debate. More than 130 units of local self-government bodies, entrusted with parent-books, relevant domestic international institutions, as well as a large number of associations of citizens and international organisations, whose objectives are in relation to the exercise of rights in this area. The law whose adoption we propose in a comprehensive manner regulates all issues relevant to the smooth functioning of the area and introduces a number of significant newspapers. In view of the three groups of facts on the basis of which the personal status of the natural person is determined, the current concept, generally accepted and in parallel law, has been retained, that the basic official records of the personal status of the citizens constitute the parent books of the born, the parent books of the married and the parent books of the deceased. In order to regulate the responsibilities for the management of the parent book and to address administrative matters in the first instance of the procedure for the reasons of effective and rational performance of the business, as well as the exercise of citizens' rights to meet their needs, it is proposed to entrust those tasks to units of local self-government, which is satisfied with one of the basic principles of reform of the state administration, which is the principle of decentralisation expressed through the model of delegation of power. The law for the first time in the current normative arrangement of parent books, respecting the principle of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of administrations, prescribes conditions for the performance of the work of matriarchs, i.e. the deputy mothermakers. Thus, according to the areas governed by the state administration and the general administrative procedure, the job of the mothermaker, or the deputy parent, can only be done by persons who have completed the university, i.e. they are now master studies. Since the mother, or deputy parent, needs specific knowledge from a number of different fields, a special expert exam is introduced for the first time. The paper is also that the power to carry out the tasks is issued by the minister responsible for the administration's tasks on a proposal from the officials who manage the authorities responsible for the tasks of the parent books, as well as that the Ministry keeps records of the authorised powers. A new regulation of the management of the second copy of the parent book exclusively through the use of electronic means, for the processing and storage of data, in full compliance with the positive regulations in this area, as well as the adopted European principles for the development of an information society expressed through its development strategy in the Republic of Serbia. Starting from the modernisation of the state administration as one of the three established objectives of the development of electronic administration, this function will, with clear and precise further editing of the concept of electronic parent book, establish good practice for the development of these and related areas. It also provides for the obligation of the parent book-keeping authority to ensure that, within five years of the date of entry into force of this law, the second copy of the parent book is kept on modern data processing and storage means. The establishment of an information system will create preconditions for the application of the provisions of this law which regulate the publication of copies from the parent books, regardless of where the authority is required, and not only where the parent books are kept. In fact, the law suggests that a parent from any home area of a particular municipality or city may issue a copy of the parent book in electronic form for any other parent area, or other municipalities, or cities, which ensures faster and easier exercise of citizens' rights in this area. The law is in the section relating to the protection of personal data in accordance with the relevant European Parliament instructions, which is confirmed by the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data. The special chapter of the law consists of provisions relating to the management of parent books in the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia. These provisions are proposed in agreement with relevant international acts, before all of the Vienna Convention on consular relations, and will provide conditions for the smooth and timely exercise of the rights and interests of our citizens abroad in the field of parent books. In view of the fact that the current concept is contained in the law, when it comes to the types of basic records of the personal condition of citizens, the same concept has been retained in relation to the types of copies from the parent books. In order to meet the security conditions, i.e. the uniformity and authenticity of birth certificates copies, in accordance with EU standards, it is for the first time explicitly arranged that the copies of the parent books are technically produced and printed by the NBS. In addition, the relevant newspapers make up provisions that are prescribed that copies of the parent books do not have a limited period of validity, and that for the use of a published copy which does not contain the latest data entered in the parent book, the person who puts it in legal traffic is criminally responsible. These newspapers, with respect for the basic principles on which the parent books are based, which are officiality, uniformity, public and authenticity, will allow, finally, after several decades of the adoption of existing and much-surpassed regulations, one law regulates a whole series of cases relating to the area of the parent books. We believe that the adoption of this law, after decades of stagnation, will make it possible to make significant progress in the area of parent books and to promote further development of related segments of the state administration. In addition, we believe that the solutions contained in the law, whose adoption we propose, will improve the transparency of the work of the administration and the faster achievement of the rights and interests of the citizens, without unnecessary costs, globular procedures, while at the same time ensuring the general interest, given that the parent books are a prerequisite for all other official records. In particular, our citizens have multiple benefits, as well as our country. Not only is the law in line with all these regulations, which have been passed in the meantime, but what we personally consider to be the most important, this law, if adopted, will allow the establishment of a home national register which is the basis for the establishment of a register of citizens and of all other national registers in one country. We, as a state, unfortunately do not have national registers. You know, as a state, we don't even have a voter list. If this law is passed, depending on the money we have available, in the next few years Serbia will receive a home register, therefore, a register containing data on all citizens, all data now contained in the books. There is no need to specifically explain what advantages these are later and to what extent this will be used in all other procedures, starting with the most banal things we are now going to municipalities for, we are extracting copies from the parent books, and even other complex things, because this register will be the basis for making citizens' registers. The register of citizens may, as its subset, have a electoral list which then does not have to be conducted in particular, etc. I think this is one of the most important laws, although not very politically attractive, which the National Assembly has a chance to consider. What's important, and for me, as a citizen, is that now that I've adopted this law, when I take a copy of the book of origin, no one will ever have to bring me back from the counter and ask that this copy not be more than six months old. And secondly, what I find very important is that the people that are being led inside, they don't have to go to their own place of origin, but they're going to be able to pull out in the place where they're currently living. All of this is something that's probably been illogical for all of us all these years, which has to be. Now we have a chance to finally form it in the next two or three years, as common sense and logic tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14573	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, the minister, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14574	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of adopting a new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is to improve the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, to bring the law into line with all international standards in this area. Since the existing legal framework has changed to a significant extent, it is proposed to adopt a completely new law instead of amending and supplementing the existing law. The draft law is fully in line with Directive 2005/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing from 2005, so-called Third EU Directive, then, Regulation No 1189/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of the transfer of transferable means of payment across EU borders, document 40 of the recommendations against money laundering and 9 of the special recommendations against terrorist financing, adopted by international bodies educated by groups of eight of the world's most developed countries and considered to be the leading authority in the field of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the following international conventions: 1. UN Convention on Anti-Non-Traffic Drug Traffic and Psychotropic Substances, 2. Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Search, Confiscation and Confiscation of Crime Income, 3. UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime with Supplemental Protocols, 4. Criminal Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and 5. The UN Convention against Corruption. Membership of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering in the Egmont Group, an international organisation of financial and intelligence services, under which the administration exchanges data from 108 countries in the world, depends on the recent alignment of our legislation with those international standards, especially in the area of preventing terrorist financing. The adoption of this law prevents the interruption of overall, very intense and disseminating international co-operation and exchange of information. The Council of Europe Committee – Manival will carry out an assessment of the measures and actions the Republic of Serbia is taking in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in May 2009. The process and the assessment that our system will receive are of paramount importance for the state, and it is necessary that the Republic of Serbia adopt this law by the start of the procedure, and that its application be started, in order to assess its positive effects. The benefits expected from the adoption and application of this law are: bonds, banks, other financial institutions and other persons referred to in Article 4. The bill will carry out its obligations depending on the degree of risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, with a specific client, a specific transaction and a product in its possession. Resources will focus on high-risk categories, resulting in a higher number of cases detected by the debtors and a reduced amount of property acquired by criminal acts, which enters financial flows. A very high risk of money laundering and terrorist financing relys on cash in transport. It's so-called. It's a cash economy. The risk will be reduced to a minimum by banning money from paying for goods and services of 15 000 euros or more. In addition, sellers of items of greater value, cars, precious metals and precious stones, vessels, stop being bonds, as they cannot receive payments in cash. The application of this law will also affect strengthening healthy competition, given a number of negative effects that money laundering, but also financing terrorism, has on economic flows. Undermining the stability and transparency and efficiency of the country's financial system, economic disturbance and instability, endangering the reform programme, reducing investment, reducing the country's reputation and jeopardising national security are the consequences of these phenomena, and their reduction affects the overall strengthening of economic activity. The benefits are also expected in the application of the new law, in the case of the debtors, because certain obligations under the Law which is in force have been tempered in accordance with international standards and experiences, which in application of the law had bonds and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. For example. threshold for the identification of the real owner of the legal person, i.e. The identification of a natural person holding at least 10% of the shares in a legal person was raised by the bill to 25%, and the re-identification of a legal person was suspended once a year. The reasons for such regulation are very high costs of applying these provisions to the debtors, while the benefits are negligible. The bill establishes a framework for the prevention and detection of the crime of terrorist financing, no doubt for the security of the state in a comprehensive fight against terrorism. The draft law also establishes a system of comprehensive cash transfer control across the state border, and that requires all cash to be reported to the customs authority, in the amount of 10 000 euros or more, as well as by prescribing sanctions for breach of this obligation. Risks that carry the cash transfer will be reduced by this provision, and more cases of money laundering detected at the state border are also expected. I thank you for your attention and I express my hope that, after the debate in principle and in particular, this bill will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14575	I thank Mrs. Minister. Is there anyone else who's got an opinion that wants a word? Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14576	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes that the adoption of this law relating to co-operation and the provision of international criminal aid was absolutely unnecessary, given that the Code of Criminal Procedure has been sufficiently regulated. However, if it was necessary to comply with certain international legal acts, contracts or conventions, in that case, for the adoption of the upcoming Criminal Procedure Code, another chapter should be provided for to regulate this matter in an appropriate manner. In the light of my opinion, I would like to point out one fact that we should be familiar with, to remind ourselves, in the rule of law, it is not usual for laws to be passed, or to change over one or several cases, or several problems that the state may be facing at a given time. The provisions of the law must have a much more general character than individual character. We cannot pass one law simply because someone should be tried in this country, if he has committed a crime abroad or if he has to deliver someone, if he is a stranger, or if he is to be subject to certain criminal acts. International law represents a synthesis of politics and rights, and I draw attention to the professional public and to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which, in international criminal law, should allow for overcoming the right to politics, as well as its greatest basis on widely accepted grounds and fundamental principles of criminal law. History shows that where politics dominates the right, there is a conflict of politics and rights, which requires certain social deviations. I note that in a concrete case, in the last few years, policy has achieved an advantage over law and that politics mainly dictates that law, law, and a certain norm will be made in a particular area. It is mistakenly believed that positiveism has allowed policy penetration into law, although it is certain that positiveism can be misused for political purposes, it seems, however, that natural law theories largely allow policy penetration in law, even when it tends to set the limits of politics, because natural law makes it even more possible to abuse rights for political purposes. International criminal law related to this bill, as a complex international entity, provides for further development only if it permanently allows the guarantee of the rule of law to prevail over politics. Any opposite development will give the international right the character of the imposed right, because it will do the will of the ruling world power and will not be accepted by law. Therefore, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that when laws like this are passed, and we are witnessing that many laws are proposed and passed, that these laws have no great value, these laws do not apply, you will see later when I speak of the law in principle, that it is conflicting with the Constitution and that it will be in conflict with the application of certain provisions. (President: Time. As far as I'm concerned, Madam Minister, I'll finish my white Schengen visas...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14577	Boris Aleksic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14578	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have singled out my opinion, above all, on the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. I think this law was offered to the state of Serbia without people ever realizing which state they were offering it to. We as a state have 18 years of experience in combating terrorism, fighting terrorist organisations, those financing terrorism, etc. In no word did you mention terrorist organisations and terrorists acting on KIM and other parts of the Republic of Serbia in the law. They're notorious, they're famous. I would like to point out that in 2003, the Government of the Republic of Serbia cited in the White Paper specifically certain terrorist organisations as terrorists with KIM, related to Cypriot terrorism. However, it is even more surprising that you are calling for EU directives and again that old story – everything offered from the EU is good, the EU's terrorist financing directive and your information that the most significant countries that are ahead of the fight against terrorism have given guidance that respects this law. You mentioned EU Member States. I must disappoint you, Mrs. Malovic, because the EU is one of the largest terrorist finances. As you know, they accused each other, the United States and the EU, and you know very well, it's old information, that GNI funded so-called. The Kosovo Liberation Army, the US Central Intelligence Agency after that, but in order not to speak out of my mind, I will provide you with information from the EU. One of the famous professors of modern history at the famous Italian University, Professor Daniel Genzer, among other things, published books of the "Secret NATO Army" with lots of documents. Genzer explains that these armed formations were created throughout Western Europe, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Luxembourg and Turkey. According to the experts, the organisation and equipment provided these armies with CIA and MI6, it is an English intelligence service operating abroad, and NATO, related to Euro-Atlantic integration. The basic method of these paramilitary are so-called. "Strategies of tightness" and terrorist actions so-called "treasury." "false flags," it's a literal translation into Serbian, "false flags" is in English. Notice, Professor Daniel Genzer notes that the "strategy of tightness" and the "false flags" tactics include carrying out terrorist actions and attributing them to someone else, meaning accusing other states. You must remember Markal, Your Miskin, etc. The Genzer in his book reveals that NATO was the core of that terrorist network. He states that the secret committee for planning, abbreviations the CPC and the Allied secret committee, the ACC abbreviations in English, were the foundations of secret armies across Western Europe. Let's remind ourselves that Giulio Andreotti, chairman of the Council of Ministers in 1990, recognised the existence of so-called "the Council of Ministers". "Gladija" as well as his obvious links with the CIA, "MI6" and NATO -- source and report on Operation Gladio, Andreotti on February 26, 1991. Also, the Italian judge, Felix Kason, successfully proved that the assassination in Italy in 1972, committed by Vicenco Vinciger, a member of the "Ordinera Nuovo", was linked precisely to these secret armies funded by the NATO Pact and EU member states, the future. He confessed to the murder with the help of the Italian secret police. Speaking of hunger, this mobster also confirmed that the NATO-controlled paramilitary pact and that its actions during the cold war had resulted in the murder of civilians, women and children. For example, in 1975 85 people were killed by a terrorist attack in Bologna. According to Professor Genzer, such and similar terrorist actions by the secret NATO armies, they were meant to blame the crimes against Moscow and other enemies of the West. Genzer cited another example, in Germany in 1990, representatives of the Socialist Party came up with data on the existence of a NATO secret army in their country, which was contrary to international law and the Constitution of Germany. When they threatened to publicize everything, including links of paramilitary formations with the Democratic Christian Party, they were left behind with information about the involvement of their Willy Brant in the entire operation. During the 1990s, an initiative was launched in the European Parliament to expose NATO, the CIA and "We 6" in creating terrorist groups on Europe's soil. Even sent a letter to the President of the United States to George Bush. However, the United States and most European countries remain silent, only in Italy, Switzerland and Belgium have conducted partial investigations. After all, Professor Daniel Genzer does not rule out the possibility that these terrorist groups are active today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14579	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. Mr. Momir Markovic has his word, please. Mr Markovic gave his opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14580	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, recently when the chairman read what points of the agenda are being combined and who has proposed a merger of the agenda points, I have doubts and I have to share it with you. In fact, knowing that Mrs. Nada Kolundzija had completed the Faculty of Political Sciences, and that one of the basic teachings to which special attention is given to political sciences – logic, it simply did not go into my head that Mrs. Kolundzija proposed a merger of these absolutely illogical points, so I suppose it was someone in her name, and they only gave her to sign at the moment of imprudentity and she put the profession a little under suspicion. Namely, what does the law have to do with preventing money laundering and financing terrorism with the law on international legal aid in criminal matters, except for one law and another, the Ministry of Justice proposes? In particular, what does these two laws have to do with the proposal for a book of origin, of course, and the proposal to be taken into consideration by an emergency procedure? I think this time, Mrs. Kolundji was fooled a little bit, so she signed the proposal, and I believe she'll take care of it in the future at least so that these laws are related, similar, when she proposes a merger. As we have already come to this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic problem that this country thinks has been the adoption of European laws, so that in 2012, as Djelic said in 2020, as Mr Andric or 2045, as I suppose, admitted to the European Union. To avoid this kind of trouble, I suggest you take advantage of the experience of Bulgaria. Bulgarians passed some 167 or 168 laws in English to parliament and said – ladies and gentlemen MPs, please vote. Four-fifths, or five-sixths of Bulgarian parliament MPs, do not speak English, but have passed the laws and thus entered Europe. Of course, before that you must demand that one condition be met when you adopt those laws, regardless of whether they are in English or not compatible with our judiciary, with our climate, with our mentality, with criminal acts that are specific to, say, the territory of Serbia and agree to receive you immediately after that into the European Union. However, it seems to me that it will be possible a little later. You will wait, Mr. Andric said on a committee that he will be 50 when we enter the European Union, and I think Mr. Andric's son or daughter will be 50 years old when we enter the European Union. One of the main problems you will have to worry about at the moment is the fight against crime, corruption, organised crime, whose headquarters are the roots, whose origin is in the ruling coalition and in many parts of the Serbian government. When that law on confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts is passed, half of the ministers will remain a mere poverty. So many newspapers write about it – what everything, how and how they came... The one in two years of politics – 11m euros in the pocket and then now she can tell you, "Let's go, Europe can't wait!" Since I have little time left, let me only commit to this law relating to parent books. Namely, art. 10, 11 and 89 are very problematic. He says: "The parent, i.e. the deputy parent (hereinafter the parent) can be a person who has a higher education acquired at the second-degree studies (diplomic, academic – master... "). That means, ladies and gentlemen, that from now on, the parents will have to have a college, or a master's degree. What about the parents who are in the mountain villages, who have one wedding a month?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14581	Mr. Markovic, you'll have to finish. Time's up. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14582	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I have issued an opinion by two laws regarding the first point, but, to my great satisfaction, the first law on discrimination has been withdrawn, so today I will rely solely on the law on terrorism and money laundering. For two reasons, I've singled out an opinion. I think that this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will also be a dead letter on paper, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think that this law, as well as a set of laws that have been passed over the past few months, is just one of the laws that should serve people in power as easily as possible to control all possible flows of money in the country of Serbia. Besides money, I mean certain opinions, attitudes, political movements, etc. In this case, all legal and physical persons will be controlled. Anything will be possible to control and enter, there will be no business secret under the pretext of tracking money laundering. And why would it be absurd or why is absurd in this law? It is precisely because, as the Minister said, we have received an offer or a recommendation from the European Union to make one of these laws. This European Union reportedly has similar laws or European Union member states have laws in their own countries, they propose this law to us, although we have a really great experience in the fight against terrorism over the past 20, 30 years. That's one. Under two, it is today that the European Union and the international community are keeping under their control and a certain political arrangement between Kosovo and Metohija, that is, part of Serbia's territory. The question now arises how will the state of Serbia implement this law in its territory in Kosovo and Metohija? How will the state of Serbia implement this law in some of the central Serbia's places, say, Velika Trnovac? The international community, the European Union, the NATO Pact, America is right at those points of the globe, in those countries that are the largest producers, the largest drug distributors in the world, that's the first. Second, a huge amount of that money just ends up financing terrorist organizations. How can the European Union help us, to help the state of Serbia implement this law, when this very European Union has managed to bring by its political force certain persons, people, persons known to law enforcement, who are under various arrests, to the level of important political factors? How will the European Union allow, explain or implement the work through co-operation to remove drug lords from Kosovo? In addition to funding through drug money laundering, it is these people who today are leading political figures in Kosovo mentioned through various investigations by the UN tribunal or Europol teams, that they participated in the organisation and trafficking of people and human organs. We see these days that the prosecution is raising great dust about it, as they have only recently come to this knowledge. However, we had this knowledge back in October 1999. I'm saying, the absurd is huge, huge. The state of Serbia brings this law to the recommendation of someone, that someone right through the various international forces on our territory protects drug dealers, drug lords, protects the production of narcotics. The money is used to fund terrorist groups, those terrorist groups that just now named those Western countries as terrorist groups. Their leaders bring to a place where they can rule a quasi state, and we see a very serious streak between international organisations and certain drug lords who are now certain political figures in Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Time. I therefore believe that this is just one of the absurdities in which our country is located and I believe that this law will be a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14583	Mr Ivan Andric first appeared from the representatives of the parliamentary groups, then Mr Palalic, then Mr Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14584	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, it is difficult to start after everything that happened from yesterday to today and it is difficult to appreciate the government's intention to put these laws on the agenda, as well as the way the debate on this agenda is going. So, after a series of suggestions, a session of the Assembly is finally scheduled to discuss the laws needed to put Serbia on the so-called. a white Schengen list, although we don't see any reason why this session isn't scheduled from January 1st to today. The process of European integration and, in general, the process of putting Serbia on that famous white Schengen list, has turned for a long time, in fact, into avoidance of responsibility and the transfer of guilt between the various authorities of the country or between different institutions. First of all, in this debate, we saw the possibility of discussing the whole process of European integration, and we think that this debate is a way to talk about it here, or it was imagined, so to speak, that this session is a session on the white Schengen list and it should be on the agenda that there are two, more or less, technical laws and one pure political law. These two technical laws have also remained on the agenda and are being discussed, and this policy remains without a valid, normal explanation removed from the agenda. First, let's say a few words about these two, in our opinion, more technical than political laws. The law on the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism is in the procedure of the Serbian Parliament, unless I have been wrong since September of last year. At that time, a wave of legislation needed to lift visas or to liberalise Serbia's visa regime was passed. I'll remind you, that's most of the laws the Serbian Parliament had an obligation to pass. Then, just before the session, the law on the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism was removed from the agenda. Several times on the Committee on European Integration, we tried to find out why it was done. Finally, somewhere in December, there are notes, Minister or Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration Bozidar Djelic, informed the Committee on European Integration that the law is not finished, that it is only pro-forms sent to the Assembly, that the Assembly would be responsible for its adoption, and that some amendments to that law will make it more acceptable for the Serbian government. To this day, no changes to that law have been made. I'm not sure if working on these changes was done through the amendments of the ruling majority, I didn't see the amendments being submitted, but there was one bitter taste left, and that proves what I said at the beginning. So the process of European integration in our country has been reduced, more or less, to avoiding responsibility. The meetings of the Committee on European Integration have been turned into a dispute between MPs in the last few months, on the one hand, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, and a representative of the government, over who is responsible for why the laws are not adopted. Through a very intense campaign, the struggle of an opposition parliamentary group is presented, for what they think is their rights, as a reason for the termination or full stagnation of the process of European integration in society. We said it was unacceptable for us at first. The responsibility for the functioning of the state, even in this process, has the ruling majority. It is then imagined that this change in the Rules of Procedure is, in fact, a way or a tool to speed up something that, according to us, is normal and must be faster, but an LDP proposal has been rejected by which the adoption of so-called. European laws put on a special tape, so-called The fast lane, and by which their adoption will be possible, I say, in a much faster procedure. It was then rejected, and the reasons that we could take into account, that this was not legally worked out and, on the other hand, it was said that it was a fundamental change in the Rules of Procedure which is not possible at this time, or that it is working on. We're ready to wait and see when this process ends. Now I'd go back to what's certainly a theme. So, for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list or for liberalising the visa regime, which includes, except for Serbia, Macedonia, Albania and Bosnia, which is under a special regime, all countries in Europe, were made so-called. map of the road. One marketing move, which then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, the unscheduled candidate for prime minister, agreed on the night before the elections, if I am not mistaken, the second round of presidential elections in which Boris Tadic and the presidential candidate then SRS Tomislav Nikolic fought. It was announced on big bells and a paper was drawn up to make it clear what Serbia must do to get on that famous white Schengen list. I'll remind you that was exactly a year ago. What are we interested in today, what are the reasons why something that is clear and declarative has not been adopted and done to this day? We are ready, since we are part of the National Assembly, to accept responsibility for working in the Assembly, but there is a replacement thesis. If we look at these laws that were sent, we'll see that some of these laws were sent last or last Thursday by the government. On the other hand, such identical suggestions exist. The anti-discrimination law exists, we filed it in October 2007, the LDP Parliamentary Group. In order to avoid politicisation or politics, we have taken over the model of the law that worked at the Center for the Promotion of Legal Studies, meaning the informal expert NGO. There were no words then, until today, that the law should come to the Serbian Parliament's agenda. At the same time, the government is forming its expert team, which are just the representatives of the Centre for the Advancement of Legal Studies, and they are proposing more or less the same model of law as we proposed in 2007, identical. Who's responsible for those two years? Mr. Momir Markovic of the SRS quotes our last, not to say a fight, but a debate with Bozidar Djelic. The Serbian government adopted some kind of report on the process of Serbia's European integration. In the report, a general assessment of the European integration process was that 30% of what was planned in the first year was done. Based on a clear bill, if it were to work 100%, Serbia would adapt its legal system to the EU legal system and we would have the same legal system in 2012. If a third is made, it is clear that at this rate we will adapt our system to the EU legal system at the earliest in 2020. That's what Mr. Markovic aims at when he says that I said, it's true that I said that I would be over 50 by then. So it's a responsibility, even though it looks principled and theoretically, it's very direct. Most MPs have children. How old are those kids gonna be then? It's on condition that it's done at the same pace. I would remind you that from 1 January 2009 to 1 March 2009 the Serbian Parliament is in the so-called "Serbian Parliament". an emergency session. This means in real life that a session of the Assembly with certain topics can only be scheduled by MPs of the ruling majority or by the Serbian government. In those two months, what did the Serbian Parliament do? She changed the Rules of Procedure in February, and that's all. There's no talking about European integration. Today we can say that the percentage of the fulfillment of our so-called so-called. a commitment to the European integration process of less than 30%. It's the result of someone's work. We ask the question all the time – of whom? To go back to what is the essence of today's session. So, for placing or throughout the process of European integration, there are two groups of laws. One represents one group of laws and is the alignment of Serbia's legal system so that it is equal to the legal system in the civilized EU countries. These regulations exist more or less through our other laws, and this is about a technical, legal business that means alignment. So, if we want to be part of the EU, we need to have a system -- social, political, legal, any possible, the same as in the EU. On the other hand, Serbia is a country that must make political changes in the European integration process. The law on combating discrimination is a fundamental political change in this fight and in this process. It's a very simple democratic principle, and that's the principle that all people are equal, and that's the essence of that law. All humans are equal, regardless of the personal qualities they have. That's exactly what this law regulates or simplifies. There can be no discrimination because someone is less than 170 centimeters, because someone is a male, and a woman, because someone is disabled, can't even be by her sexual definition, by birth definition, there can be no discrimination. None of these groups can be under the laws of the Serbian state, regardless of the process of European integration, in a worse position than another. It's a civilization achievement. That part also contains protection of minority communities and national, religious and all kinds. It's a second civilization achievement. So it's not democracy the rule of the majority, it's not. It's common to all societies. Most will always rule. Whether she's dictatorial or democratic depends on other things. This depends on respecting the relationship or respecting the minority opinion. It's the essence of democracy. That's another thing that anti-discrimination law regulates. Why in this country is it difficult to pass a law on the fight against discrimination for eight years from the so-called. democratic change? It's a question for each and every one of us and for those who went skiing on the Kopalnik, since first in a certain way they were wasting their time in the government building, now they're the same ones who went to waste time on the Kopalnik. There's no answer to that question. That law was withdrawn from the heart of its democratic procedure last night. It may pass as if nothing had happened, but it was essentially an attack on the rule of law. From a democratic procedure, from institutions, from the tools of democracy. Without the knowledge of these institutions, without saying contrary to the will of these institutions, it was something that was a decision, it was withdrawn from the procedure. I deliberately called it a little banal force. Some force that doesn't have legitimacy, it may have legitimacy in an individual opinion, but it essentially doesn't have one. If it is true that the religious communities demanded that the law be removed, it should not be allowed. I'll tell you why. The opinion of religious communities is very important, not only in the process of passing the law, but because the law had to be widely accepted. In that segment, their opinion is important. The public hearing lasted eight years. The Ministry of Faith, as a representative, participated in the creation of the law in one way, had suggestions, and suggestions were accepted. On the other hand, a multitude of public debates were places where religious community demands could be openly discussed. That didn't happen. The legal order is disrupted. Disturbed! Those institutes worked. This is one of the few cases besides, perhaps, Mr. Markovic's law, that all these democratic institutes were used, so the independent group of experts wrote the law and was at a public hearing once, twice, for the fifth time, to various groups. The government, all the government committees, came into the process of the Serbian Parliament, passed all the competent committees of the Serbian Parliament, and during the night someone removed the law from the procedure. I hope you're aware of the danger such a way of working is in place. The very idea of democracy is building institutions, and that is why we have defended the SRS in the fight for their mandates until one moment. There's got to be a rule. It must not be arbitration. There was the ruling majority's mistake in the part of the SRS mandate. If that rule exists, then it's a rule and we act on it. No one's above the rules. Unfortunately, the process has been narrowed down to the fact that the ruling majority wants to have a comfortable position in which there are no rules, but rather, it arbitrations from case to case, thus gaining that illusion of state leadership. It's an illusion. Look at the results after a year. The political law is important and Serbia cannot skip it. The LDP will support both laws, but we will insist, in every possible political way, that there be a debate on the law on combating discrimination. It is something that will politically place Serbia in the order of civilized countries or show that we are not there yet. The law exists, the provisions of the law and the essence of the law exist in the Constitution of Serbia, there are also in many laws, and that has already been discussed by colleagues. It is necessary to make a roof law and make it clear to the political message that it is something behind which the entire Serbian Parliament, or all parties, stands. If anyone is against it, it is the responsibility of the ruling majority to speak to them and convince them of the necessity of the law. As far as speed goes, there's something else I have to say, often officials blame the Assembly. Let us direct them from here and just in this debate one more question – what is the Assembly? Are the representatives of the Government dissatisfied with the work of the President of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee; the legislative, for European integration, for industry? What's a congregation? That campaign leads to the collapse and the few institutions that we in the state have. If we are talking about European integration, we must not ignore that the basis or essence of the liquid is, the achievement of the EU is the existence of institutions. That means there's no flat rate, the responsibility is individual. I ask a question, and there are representatives of the government, if you say, the Assembly is late, not that -- who doesn't? Name, function, and let us handle it in the best possible way. The general assessment that this debate should take and with which I am fully agreed is that the process of European integration in Serbia is running slowly, incompletely and very selectively. I don't think the result will be great at all. One thing is that the ruling majority will fight marketing with this problem, and another thing, perhaps much more dangerous, at least as far as LDP is concerned, since such actions completely compromise citizens' attitude towards the EU, this false picture of this kind of work being a process of European integration, and that is something that we all have to oppose, the direct result of this is the decline of citizens' confidence in the EU of almost 10% in just a year. That's a direct result. How do you do that? When the European Commission's report comes out in the Serbian Parliament first, it comes in forged, summed up, and by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration. When we fight to get the original text, then we get a few things. Thus, the Assembly is blamed for the slowness of lawmaking, and attention is also drawn to what today’s debate shows. It draws attention that laws cannot be passed only by emergency procedure and through emergency work, as this prevents discussion. We are slowly entering, if we are not now, we will surely be in the next month or two, in another problem, from the slowness of the Law - Making Assembly, so bring them, therefore, to the problem of implementing these laws because they are not clear to anyone. Serbia's parliament does not work for two months, and then a debate is brought together in one or two days, with 17 or 18 points each, so examples of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Minister Milan Markovic or the law on the fight against discrimination are exceptions. Other laws are only seen by MPs when they enter the procedure. We usually have a session a day or two after that. The direct reaction to that is to refuse to accept these laws, they are not clear to anyone. I forgot to mention the Ministry of Justice that makes one contribution to this conversation with the parliamentary groups, as pointless as it may seem, it's important, we're in a position to ask questions, to know what's in the law, but no other ministry is making such a contribution. I'll also mention the government's relationship to that. We have just received notice that the laws set out for the promoters Milan Markovic, Diana Dragutinovic and Mrs Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice. Where's Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic? Is the essence of her work to convince these people here...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14585	Mr. Andric, you'll have to finish. Thank you. The word is from Mr Palalic, the authorised promoter of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14586	President-in-Office, Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind once again, before the debate on these laws begins, that after pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President of our parliamentary group on the reasons for the merger of these three points, we have not received an answer that would be in line with the business reasons set out in Article 142. It is really hard to find an opportunity to explain the merger of dots related to parent books and the financing of terrorism. Any citizen who is now watching the transfer of the National Assembly should try to find a link between the parent books, international legal aid and the financing of terrorism. This can only create an even worse atmosphere about the National Assembly and enter a series of precedents in the next period, so that this Rule of Procedure 142 can be fully unthinked. It's going to be all sorts of things now because we haven't been able to get an answer about the interconnectivity of these laws and on the basis of the opening of the discussion. On this occasion, with all these criticisms, I would like to point out to the majority of the National Assembly that, in the coming period, they are no longer resorting to this because we have a unique case for the united debate to be attended by three ministers from completely different areas. Of course, there is no Minister Dragutinovic who should cover the law on the prevention of money laundering and on the financing of terrorism. What I want to point out at the outset when it comes to all three of these laws, if their provisions are carefully analysed, is something that is already being implemented in the previous laws that we have adopted here and which will be confirmed more or less in the next period, that is inapplicability. In the good part, apart from perhaps the law on parent books, which I will speak of in one aspect when it comes to the issue of a second copy of the parent books, these two laws, in particular the law on the prevention of money laundering and on the financing of terrorism, will be absolutely inapplicable, as it will prove, despite serious and long-term discussions in the National Assembly, that the laws, which was defended by Minister Malovic here, which should reform Serbia's justice system are absolutely inadmissible. You will see, here, we are all MPs here, that by 31 December 2009, a law will be passed where the deadline for the application of these laws is shifted, because these laws are defined, how the network of courts is adopted, how the holders of judicial functions will be elected, is something that cannot be implemented in the next nine months. There is absolutely certainly a connection between these two laws, providing international legal assistance in criminal matters, and the law on preventing money laundering and financing terrorism is the fight against crime. The book code has absolutely no touch point with it. The fight against crime is something that has been declared in this society and in the National Assembly, more or less in all the governments that have presented their programmes. It has become a common civilizational fluid in all countries and there is no doubt that there is a need for mutual assistance and co-operation in the fight against crime, especially in the fight against money laundering and terrorism as a modern monster, which has shown itself in several cases, in recent times, in the most drastic form in the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in KIM, where the people who are terrorists exercise power with the support of the international community, therefore, requires a mutual fight against a monster who needs to get in the way. Fighting crime is something that should be the basic principle of every responsible government. In his exposé, the Prime Minister defined those six priorities, I think he put the fifth in the fight against crime and corruption. A very important role in the fight against crime and corruption should be played by the judicial system, the holders of judicial functions, and we will see whether at this point a very suspicious way of choosing and protecting their independence will be sufficient to ensure that the fight against crime and corruption is fought. As far as the law on international legal aid in criminal matters is concerned, I think it rightly raises the question of why this law is passed, given that as a state, we have adopted the Convention on mutually providing legal assistance in criminal matters, which more or less defines these issues in the good part. In the light of this law, it would like to state that it regulates certain parts of this international legal aid more precisely. We think that even in this Convention, especially in the criminal regulations in the Republic of Serbia, these areas are more or less well covered. I would not like to repeat that all aspects of this international legal aid have been defined here for the extradition of the accused, the execution and the takeover of criminal prosecution, but there are several things I would like to point out and to which the DSS Group has submitted amendments. Article 8(2) raises the question of reciprocity, i.e. the existence of reciprocity. It is stated here, someone will say it is a legal standard, and we know that it exists in that law that regulates issues of conflict resolution of jurisdiction, if there is no data of reciprocity, there is supposed to be reciprocity. We wanted through our amendment to draw attention to a rule that is becoming more and more excellent for these authorities, in the new segments, which is that Serbia is starting to apply unilaterally some decisions and, simply, it becomes a rule. We had the opportunity to see how Serbia had joined the Stabilisation and Association Agreement without having had any reciprocity at all. There's no interrelationship! The EU said we do not want to apply it, we do not want to apply the Transition Trade Agreement, we set up a series of political conditions for you, and then we took off, we ran to apply the Transitional SAA. Now, we just want to point out that we want to finally put an end to whether there's reciprocity somewhere and try to make this government understand that it respects this country's dignity, to say no, if there's no data of reciprocity in application, in the assumptions of providing international legal assistance. If there's no data, then there's no interrelationship and there's no such thing as until it's established whether there was this kind of goodwill from another country to us. We have to respect our national dignity a little bit, we have to respect the dignity of the state. As for Article 22, we consider it inadmissible for a year when it comes to detention. The detention of a year in these cases is absolutely huge, and we believe that it should be adapted to our legal regulations, and we have indicated by our amendment that it should be six months. Article 91 regulates the possibility for a foreign body to participate and effectively take procedural action in our country – it is a very sensitive matter and the question is whether this provision is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why has it been accepted to allow foreign authorities to participate in certain procedural actions?- I'm sorry. We asked to delete this part. I want to remind you of one thing. When a ultimatum was delivered to Serbia by Austria in the event of an assassination in Sarajevo, those 14 points, the only point Serbia would not accept was that the competent state authorities of Austria conducted procedures on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And now we in Article 91 are going to allow some state authorities to carry out these proceedings. We will discuss this more when the amendments are made, but in any case, it would be good for the government's representatives to consider this. The law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is, according to us, absolutely inapplicable law. It had to be taken care of what institutes were offered here. Unquestionably, this is an important law, a required law, Serbia needs in every way possible to fight money laundering and terrorist financing, but the solutions that are offered here, certain provisions, are intruding not only to constitutionality, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but to some serious professions. I'm talking specifically about law enforcement here, and I'm going to talk more about it when it comes to this law, because this law here, I'm going to say it freely, it's made by lawyers by system informants. A lawyer's profession in Serbia has a long tradition, has a reputation. All of us, and here in the National Assembly, there are a lot of lawyers, we know how important the trust established between lawyers and clients is, how important this link is for the need to provide legal assistance, for the exercise of citizens' rights. Now, by this law in Chapter III, lawyers are asked to take information from them when establishing a business relationship and providing legal assistance to clients and to report these data to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. It goes to the point where a lawyer must determine the origin of the party's assets in the proceedings and report it, and it is even more dangerous that lawyers, accounting workers, especially lawyers, are required to assess whether it is suspicious when it comes to financing terrorism. That's what the law says about preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. He's even asked a lawyer to create some kind of indicator based on which someone, when they show up at the door, will immediately be suspicious. Maybe to say, here, based on the teachings of Cesara Lambroza, we know what kind of criminogenic type it is – as soon as I see it at the door he's suspicious, he's brought in certain funds, as soon as he's brought in a certain amount of funds he's suspicious, I'll report it immediately, and I can't say I reported it because it's official secret. I'm asking you to seriously consider this. The DSS has tabled amendments, asked for these provisions to be deleted, because it seriously violates the reputation of the law profession, and I'd like to hear where all the countries were brought in, and where was this carried out? These are serious things to discuss and the question is whether the issue has been consulted by the Law Chamber of Serbia and other legal chambers, the Vojvodina Bar and all others, means making a list of indicators and even hiring an authorised person in the Bar, as well as other debtors, who will only be involved in monitoring these transactions. The question arises whether the Constitution is being violated here and whether a law that regulates the position of a legal profession is being violated? These are things that need very serious access, because they can create consequences that can have a very bad impact on overall relations and on the application of rights in our society. And here's the part about real estate traffic. No one else, when they read this bill, will come to the law firm to close his real estate contract. We're going to encourage corruption because these people are going to talk to the nadirs, trained lawyers, all those who work in various parts of the judicial administration, and that's what happens, they're going to make real estate contracts. As soon as the party finds out that the lawyer is going to question her, shake her out of her skin, with all the background data, about the property, about her personal data, about her family, because she can report it to the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, I don't think anyone's going to come to the law office. It's a matter that needs to be talked about seriously. Here are things that aren't fully worked out. When it comes to trading operations, it is said that, in the event of transactions in exchange offices being carried out, more than 5,000 euros, all of this is being conducted, whether there are presumed possible frauds that can happen then, let's say, that someone will not come and change 5,000, but will change several times. There are a thousand things here unsaid, although I say, this law is extremely important and it is necessary to bring it, but not with these institutes and not with these solutions. I'm afraid it'll just get into a series of laws that will, on the one hand, be applicable, and on the other hand, make huge changes in society. The question arises – should such laws meet the condition to just say we adopted them, put us on the white Schengen list. The effects of their application should be analysed and not only that, but what political and social consequences they produce when applied in society. We've heard big words in the opening part of the government's representative that these laws are due to the white Schengen list, that they can't be found without them on the white Schengen list. Let's not kid ourselves! On the white Schengen list, even if we adopt these laws, we will not be put in place until political conditions are realized, and we all know what political conditions are here. They refer to our policy towards KIM and what they said, politics towards The Hague tribunal. But I think even the policy of the commitment they impose on The Hague tribunal is in the shadow and the condition of what concerns the fact that we should give up our fight to preserve territorial integrity. You will see, although the government said in its exposé that by the end of 2008, Serbia will be on the white Schengen list, it will not be in 2009 or 2010, as long as the Eulex mission does not fully realise its objectives under the Martti Ahtisaari plan and until Serbia has established good neighbourly relations with KIM, it will be conditions for the white Schengen list. What about the candidacy?- I'm sorry. A colleague, Andric, said in 2020, exactly as Cobel said, if and then he did. As far as the Law on Parent Books is concerned, this law is basically a good law, in the good part regulates the things that were missing in previous regulations that regulated the area of the parent books and complies with the legal rules that were passed after the state of the state had ceased to exist and after the constitution was adopted. Here, as the biggest newspaper, the fact is that a second copy of the parent books will be conducted and that, in fact, by promoting the electronic administration, there will be networking in all Serbia of all data relating to the personal state of the citizens, and that the citizen in each parent area will be able to take a copy of the parent books, regardless of whether this is the parent area where it is registered. That's good, if that happens. I'm trying to point out one thing here, what is the situation when it comes to the capacity of local self-government in Serbia to apply this law. We didn't hear in the discussion a serious strategy, in which way this will be realized and how much funding it takes to realize this. In any case, this law is a shift, but the part relating to a difficult material state, the administrative state in local self-government, will well slow down the implementation of this regulation. Finally, I would like to, since I started with the situation in the judiciary and the problems in the functioning of the judiciary, and here we are pleased to be attended by the minister of justice and the minister of local self-government, to point out Minister Malovic to one case, simply to pay attention to how certain courts solve some problems concerning local self-government. See examples of decision-making in the Uzic District Court when it comes to the functioning of local self-government, in the case of Koseric and Prepolje. A completely different decision on the same legal situation. The issue of citizens' trust in Prepolje or Koseric is raised when they learn that two different decisions have been made by one and the same court, and it was about whether or not the committee's verification can be carried out in a situation where there is no quorum in the Assembly. Perhaps, if Minister Markovic himself were there, he would say – how many such cases were there. However, legal practice needs to be evened out in order not to lead to the instability of certain local self-government, although the courts in most cases managed to implement this practice, and we have cases like this. Now we have a similar case in Nova Varosha, it's about a councilman, whether he signed or didn't sign a blank resignation, these days he'll be re-deposing himself at the Uzic District Court. You're interested, please, that, if possible, in your authority, this case-law is unique. No Minister Markovic, at one point in his life, spoke about the rationalization of the municipal administration, simply to ask him about all these events happening in the Assembly of the City of Leskovec, one committee member was leaving, the other one was coming – is it true that one committeeman, who allegedly left the assembly majority, was extremely employed in a republican inspection in the area of Jablani County? In the end, I want to say that these laws are not applicable, that they will create serious problems, especially the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. As for the law on international legal aid, it is more or less defined in the European Convention that we have signed, but the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, to seriously consult, primarily, the bar of law in Serbia, can this law create serious problems in the functioning of this extremely respectable and important profession in the application of rights and the realisation of basic rights of citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14587	Thank you, Mr. Palaic. The President of the Minority Group, Mr Balint Pastor, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14588	Madam President, Mrs Malovic, the respected representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the agenda, we have laws that are necessary, whose adoption is necessary in order to put our country on the white Schengen list and this information speaks enough about the need to adopt these laws as soon as possible. But these laws should not only be passed for reasons that are a condition for introducing a visa-free regime for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but these laws should be adopted because they will modernise social relations in those areas they regulate. First of all, I'm going to talk about the book code. For the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and for SVM, the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters is not controversial and we absolutely support these bill proposals. We're very sorry, but I won't talk about it much longer, since at the beginning of the working day I put it out, which we don't have a draft law on the agenda today, because the Assembly of these days can't complete the process of adopting the laws necessary for the purpose of putting or in the interest of putting Serbia on the White Schengen list. I therefore referred a parliamentary question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and I would not want to talk about it any longer, but I must stress only in one sentence that we consider it scandalous that at the request of a church or any church, or any church, a particular bill could be withdrawn from the assembly procedure only a few hours before the start of the new session of the Assembly, when this bill was the first on the agenda of the National Assembly. On the other hand, it is very bad that by March 15th, we will not be able to meet all the conditions for putting Serbia on the White Schengen list, which was the intention when this session is being prepared as of today. To return to the proposal for a law on parent books, we believe that this bill is modern and that in a modern and good way it regulates these issues. When we know that the current laws that regulate this area originate in 1973 and 1990, then it is not necessary to say that these laws are now fully anachronous regulations and that the adoption of a new, modern law is necessary. For us, the fact that so-called will be introduced is of paramount importance. "e" or "e" the parent's books. The second copy of the parent book will be guided by the use of electronic data processing and storage means and this is one big step towards modernising our entire administration. It is also very good that this will allow access to certain international contracts, and even more importantly, what is derived from the parent books will not have a limited period of validity since the entry into force of this law. For the citizens, it is certainly of first-class importance and the fact that the mother of one home area of one particular municipality will be able to issue copies of the parent book run for other parent areas of the municipality or other municipality, or another city in the Republic of Serbia. This will certainly facilitate and speed up the publication of copies from the parent book. It's just that we're not clear and we're given an explanation why it takes so long to introduce that so-called. "e" of the parent's books. From the transitional and final provisions of this Bill proposal, we can see that it will only be possible from 1 January 2012, according to plans, to conduct a second copy of the book of origin in electronic form, and we believe that this deadline is a little long, but surely the Ministry has assessed how long it will take to introduce such a newspaper into our legal system. The Alliance of Duke Hungarians has submitted one amendment, which we hope will be adopted. It refers to the registration of the personal name of members of national minorities in the parent book. We believe that the current situation, according to the current law, is not uniform and that the current law now provides an opportunity for different interpretations of the current law. If this amendment was not adopted, then this different practice could remain even after the adoption of this modern law. And that is why we have proposed an amendment, whose adoption would make it unequivocally possible to do what was undoubtedly the Ministry's intention, that members of national minorities should be entitled to sign their personal names according to their own language and spelling, which does not exclude parallel registration of their personal name in both Serbian and Cyrillic letters. This is what members of national minorities have the right to do under Article 79. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on the basis of Article 9. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. The problem is that in current practice there are municipalities where the names of members of the national minorities are entered in Serbian according to the spelling of the Serbian language, the Cyrillic letter in the first place and only the personal names of members of the national minorities are recorded in brackets. This is not a way that corresponds to the rights of members of national minorities from both the Constitution and the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and since we believe that the parent books should be uniform, of course, we just wanted to achieve the result by investing this amendment, in an unequivocal way to resolve this issue, and that national minorities have the right in all municipalities to seek the registration of their personal names in the first place in their native language and then in second place in Serbian, Cyrillic. The adoption of this amendment would fully achieve uniformity, i.e. the achievement of the principle of uniformity of the parent books. We hope that this amendment of ours will be adopted. We hope these laws will be passed in a few days. We also hope that very soon the draft law on associations will be returned to the assembly procedure and that MPs will finally be able to adopt a new law on associations of citizens, and that in a modern way they will finally be regulated and the area of work of the Association of Citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14589	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has a representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Mr Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14590	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the shortest possible, given that much has been said in the past two hours, firstly, when it comes to the bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, the SPS-JS Group supports the objective of achieving the proposed legislative solution, which is to improve the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, on the one hand, and on the other hand, as well as the harmonisation of the law with international standards and conventions in this area. Besides what's been said, I want to say something that I don't think has been said in the past two hours, and we think it's important. It is very important to adopt this legislative proposal, among other things, to retain Serbia's membership in the international organisation of financial-intelligence services, etc. The Egmont Group, which allows the exchange of data with, I think, 108 states of the world. Maintaining full membership in this group is of paramount importance, as money laundering and terrorist financing are, to the greatest extent, international crimes and the fight on the national agenda is really difficult to realise without effective international co-operation. There has been some public information over the past period that unless Serbia adopts this legislative proposal during March 2009, membership in this group will be suspended, which would in fact put an end to very intense international co-operation and exchange of information, which we believe is not positive and is not in the interest. The assessment of measures and actions Serbia is taking in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing will be carried out by the Council of Europe Committee, or Manival. It has actually manipulated the Council of Europe's body dealing with the assessment of the consistency of national money laundering systems and the financing of terrorism by the Member States of the Council of Europe with international standards. Once again, I would like to point out, it should always be pointed out, that the adoption and adoption of this law is one of the preconditions for abolishing the visa regime with the European Union. As regards the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, the adoption of this legislative proposal would first regulate the way and procedure for providing international legal assistance in criminal matters and thus regulate this area legally, and on the other hand, the co-operation of Serbia and other states in criminal courts would be improved and the procedure would be accelerated when it comes to acts of transnational character. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will also support the proposal for a law on parent books, because we want to support the goal that is intended to be achieved, which is easier and faster to exercise citizens' rights. As could be heard for this assembly speaker by representatives, the adoption and adoption of this bill should enable the keeping of parent books in accordance with the needs of society, European standards and principles adopted by international acts. Therefore, full automation of the parent books, i.e. the keeping of a second copy, is envisaged by means exclusively of electronic processing and data storage. The basic newspaper is that citizens will be able to obtain copies regardless of the birthplace, or place of birth. Namely, the parent of each parent area will be able to issue a copy of the birth certificate for any parent area. In order for this to be realised, it is necessary to establish a central information system at the level of the Republic and this proposal, it seems to me, that bodies providing for the management of parent books should be given a five-year period to provide electronic data records. Also, another newspaper is the publication of a copy of the parent books that will not have a limited duration, that was said, but, of course, the person who puts it in legal traffic is responsible for the use of birth certificates copies. We are convinced and we really want to believe that this provision will facilitate the accumulated procedure of issuing copies and reduce the costs of citizens in a certain way. Of course, we also support the intention that this legislative proposal, in a certain way, seems to us for the first time, to arrange conditions for the performance of the work of the mothermaker, that is, the work of the deputy mothermaker. We think this is a good way to implement the principle of depoliticalization and professionalization of the administration. Finally, I would like to say once again, it should be noted and not to be forgotten, I point out in a positive context, that the area of parent books in Serbia, as has already been said for this assembly speaker today, has been governed by the Law on Fundamental Data from the 1973 book of origin, which was brought to the former federal level, as well as the 1990 Law on Parent Books, as a republican regulation. So, it is evident that there is another fundamental discrepancy, i.e. inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is more reason to support this legislative proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14591	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Mr. Jojic, representative of the SRS, will be the first speaker after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. We are currently in session when the right to the word is given by the presidents or by authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14593	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has its opinion on this law regarding the provision of legal assistance in international co-operation in this area. The principle issue - the procedure for providing international assistance in criminal matters is now regulated under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the proposal for a law on international assistance in criminal matters provides for the separation of that substance from the CAP (Head HHHII and HHHIII) and its regulation of this special law. Such a solution is legitimate, but it does not accomplish anything in particular. It's about ordinary "normal cosmetics," which is not in the spirit of our tradition. It is not a new legal solution, since the largest number of provisions are taken from the Code of Criminal Procedure. So it's about copying certain provisions, and most of the provisions are from the Code of Criminal Procedure. Aid granted at the request of the International Criminal Court, the court is established by the Rome Statute, because this matter needs to be regulated by a special law. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 paragraph 3 does not specify whether the minister responsible for the judiciary "decises" or just "gives an opinion", but also the other one stands parallelly, so the provision in that section is unclear and inapplicable. I repeat, the norm cannot stand for the minister to decide or only give an opinion, but it stands for both in this norm, so the provision in this section is unclear and absolutely inapplicable. As for Article 8(2), the false assumption is that: "If there is no data on reciprocity, there is supposed to be reciprocity. "That's illogical. Nowhere in the world is such a thing prescribed, nor can it be treated as some binding norm. Article 8 paragraph 2 wrongly formulates the assumption that "if there is no data", which I was saying, that there is reciprocity, it is not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, because then international legal aid would be provided even when it is not needed, and could also be printed with high costs. This assumption or should be completely omitted, given that it is difficult to imagine the case that there is no data on the existence or absence of reciprocity. What kind of reciprocity if there is no reciprocity and that it is strictly defined and written should be formulated completely opposite, and Article 8(2) should therefore be read as follows: "If there is no data on reciprocity, there is no assumption that reciprocity exists. ''When there is no evidence that there is interrelationship, it is assumed that it was not at all, until the opposite is established in accordance with the position of the first member, or while the state is praying to submit evidence of the existence of reciprocity. As regards Article 9, the words "or the administrative procedure" in Article 2, as explained earlier, should be left out. Why international aid in criminal matters and administrative proceedings? Why criminal co-operation, if it's a administrative procedure? As regards Article 15, this article was to be inserted into point (1) of point (1) into the brackets and "result DNA analysis". The DNA results of the analysis reliably determine the identity and origin of the individual. Today, such analyses are considered far more reliable ways of identifying, from earlier standard identification techniques, such as, for example, fingerprints, which are explicitly listed here. Article 16(7), style correction. Why is this a style correction? Instead of saying "the state is asking for guarantees", the proposer proposes a norm, it should stand "to guarantee the state of prayer", because when it is said that the state guarantees, it is a stronger norm than proposed, a firm opportunity for the state to be given the championship, in order to avoid arbitration and abuse when it comes to so-called. Competitive requirements, which are now possible, as only criteria are listed in this Article, but are not determined by their order, but are left to their own discretion, which is contrary to the principle of legal certainty and does not have any particular purpose, except that it enables some countries, or vice versa, to subsidise other countries. So, if someone on the side of us is going to make some standard and some law, we have to bring it, which the SRS absolutely disagrees with and opposes. It is particularly pointless, fellow lawyers sitting in this Parliament and lawyers, a decision to determine the state to which the championship is given, because it is a "empty norm", since there is no specific legal remedy, nor a consensus for the wrong, or an irrational decision on the determination of a country whose request is given the championship. Also, it is not clear what is thought when it is first said that several states of prayer have submitted "at the same time", and then "the order of submission" is listed as a special criterion. There's a serious contradiction here. As regards Article 17, the text of the article should read the same as Article 551. The CAP, so that basically the priority is given to the request of a state whose citizen is that person. As regards Article 20(2), it is necessary to add that the defence attorney should be appointed in accordance with the order laid down in the list given to the President of the competent court by a competent bar, unless we want this standard to allow the beneficiaries of the law to be granted, to be privileged and thus to participate in certain bodies where they should not be, which means that the attorney has to respect the code, first of all, the Statute and must respect the order, and the order is given by the bar of attorneys. As regards Article 22 paragraph 1 of that Article, the grounds for detention should be regulated in the same way as in the Code of Criminal Procedure, that the concealment or escape in Article 22 paragraph 1(1) should be linked to the interference of the procedure of decision-making on the application, just as it is illogical that the reason referred to in Article 22(1) of point (2) comes down only to the "distribution of the collection of evidence". This is one thing, this is a hollow story. Instead of using a better formulation from the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates the problem of evidence obstruction, either in relation to material evidence, or in relation to the so-called colusive dangers. It is necessary to formulate the grounds for detention similar to those laid down in Article 142 paragraph 2. 1) and 2) The Code of Criminal Procedure. On the day of today, Article 26, paragraph 2, point 1), a period of 18 days is completely unorthodox for our legislation, and it is necessary to introduce a more normal deadline, for example, for 15 days, a month and so on. I didn't have a chance to see this in my professional practice, and here is Mr. Palalić, who is a lawyer, there is Mr. Ratkovic, also a lawyer, there are lawyers Boris Aleksic, Munic, and I don't list here, and there is a minister of justice, a lawyer and an expert lawyer who can in any case confirm my fact and my claim that it is an inappropriate period of 18 days. There's no regulation about that. The deadlines are set for three days, eight days, 15 days and 30 days. Here this provision is concise and should not stand for 18 days, because it is indeed in our practice that should be respected absolutely unacceptable and has never been applied. As regards Article 35, this article should be deleted. Be careful what it refers to - temporary extradition, it makes no sense, and it may be contrary to Serbia's interests, and especially to the interests of the damaged citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is difficult to imagine the possibility that such a thing can be in the interest of our country in which a parallel criminal procedure would be conducted, which would then have to continue in the absence of a person, who was temporarily extradited. Such a possibility is totally contrary to the assumptions set out in Article 16(3) of the Bill, which in this part is not in agreement with itself. As for Article 51. The draft law is a better solution already contained in Article 536. The Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure should be maintained because, among other things, it better protects the interest of the injured who is our citizen, and does not allow criminal prosecution to be committed for the most serious crimes, as is otherwise possible under Article 51. A bill of this law. Otherwise, Article 51 is confusing, because when realistically it can happen as said in Article 51 paragraph 1(2), "the person in the requested state maintains the prison sentence or other criminal sanctions consisting of the deprivement of freedom" and that there is also the possibility of resisting criminal prosecution by Serbia. What does this mean?- I'm sorry. This is extremely conflicting and confusing and it is not good for application, and it is a damage if citizens of Serbia and foreign citizens are found, because our Serbia must also guarantee foreign citizens all international rights recognised by certain conventions, charters and other norms. Then, Article 52 paragraph 1 point 3) what is "an off-quick bigger"?- I'm sorry. Our Code of Criminal Procedure, which is valid, which is still in force, is our primary source of criminal procedural law, uses the term "out-of-law bigger". Does anyone here introduce foreign terminology, who knows where and when it's prescribed, maybe? Article 52(2) speaks of "the suspect", and in the entire text of the bill either mentions "persons" or "guilty", and otherwise the term "guilty" is general meaning. Article 58 says it should be possible for non-citizens of Serbia to also be able, at their own request, to maintain a sentence in Serbia. This would be particularly important for Serbs in Croatian prisons. This is very important, and this one should be insisted. In Article 62(2), it is necessary to introduce the possibility that, in the sentence of the judgment of the local court, not always have to be entered, please be careful, a dangerous thing, very immoral, very harmful, "a full sentence of the foreign criminal verdict". Now let me explain to you what can happen in practice, what we can experience and what Serbs can experience. For example, in the judgments of Croatian courts in relation to the Krajina Serbs, it is often referred to terms such as "big Serb aggression", "cetical aggression" and the like, and then automatically implies it by our courts, which is pointless and humiliating. For Serbs absolutely humiliating! This norm, this provision is not right and it is at the expense of the Serbs! In Article 62(2), the following wording should be inserted after the word "state of prayer": "a full sentence of the party to a criminal conviction, unless for important reasons it is not celibate or would be contrary to the interests of fair criminal proceedings and morals. "In point 1) of Article 83, it is also necessary to include: "DNA analysis", which has already been explained, but is repeated in the provision of Article 83. In point 3) of Article 83, the "forming of joint investigative teams" should be deleted, as this is not in line with the Criminal Procedure Code, it is a vague formulation, and, as a rule, it would be lunched with the principle of state sovereignty and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, a point 4 of Article 83 should be deleted, as why a person deprived of freedom in Serbia "should be temporarily lectured for questioning in front of the competent authorities of the state of prayer", if the hearing could be conducted in our country as well. That's your first drop-off step. What are the guarantees that this person would ever be returned to our country if we delivered him to be heard temporarily by someone there? Nothing is said here about that person's citizenship, which would mean that so "temporary" can also be handed over to Serbian citizens, and then can be their actual extradition. For a previously explained reason, Article 92, which also allows for abuses, should also be deleted. In this regard, Article 93 and Article 95 should also be deleted, which is only a further development of this kind of "temporary surrender". Article 96 is to be deleted from this proposed standard. Dear colleagues, there's no legal basis for joint investigation teams. What are we going to do together to investigate with some foreign teams? There are also possible abuses. Serbia refused the ultimatum of Austro-Hungarian in its own time in 1914 and then entered the war because it refused to allow foreign authorities to conduct an investigation on its territory, so there is no reason why something similar is now being made possible through the so-called 'joint investigation teams'. Therefore, the SRS is against such norms and such joint investigation or joint teams. This doesn't accomplish anything. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as the draft law on money laundering and terrorist financing, Article 46, "Works and measures taken by lawyers" is one dangerous, scandalous, unseen, unauthorized, not to use other terms, norms. What are these lawyers going to do now? What role do lawyers play? To be informants, to be protected by witnesses?- I'm sorry. Did the promoter consider that this is about abuse of trust if lawyers were to comply with the provisions of this article? Under the provisions of Article 46, a lawyer is required to carry out measures and actions to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing in the following cases – when helping to plan or execute a transaction for the party in connection with this. What difference does it make to question and listen to a person who will use money if he buys real estate? Care, buying or selling real estate or a company? Lawyership is part of the legal system. The lawyer can't tell the secret of the client who came to his office and told him that, too. The lawyer isn't responsible for him. We can't force a lawyer to be subordinated to a party's policy. We can't let that happen. It's forbidden. Please, Madam Minister, if you would be a lawyer tomorrow and your party wants to buy an apartment in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Pancheva and says, please form a contract for me – and you take the name and address of his apartment, you have no right to investigate, further to determine his identity. His identity can only be determined by the police or the police by jurisdiction or by an investigative judge's solution. This isn't allowed, please, this is dangerous! I don't know if you had the consent, did she give her opinion on this by a law firm, which means the Republic Bar of Law, the District and the Regional Chamber? The party's property management? What do I have to do with being a lawyer now how the party is going to manage her property if I make up a real estate transport contract? It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14594	People's MP, you've been used 20 minutes of your time as an authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14595	Thank you. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14596	The word is from MP Vlatko Ratkovic, authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14597	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, transnational crime is changing the modes of its operation, but what is one common thread in this sui generis, let me say, is money laundering, is terrorism, and often money laundering and terrorism are complementary, or terrorism is mostly financed from suspicious, problematic transactions, financial transactions with assets, etc. The relevant international documents of the UN, the Council of Europe, are one legal framework for the adoption of laws on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. On the other hand, practice in the last few years also imposes the need to have one system law, a clear normative framework and I mean that one of the qualities of this law is that it strictly norms and material legal provisions and those that are procedural in nature. Three are the key concepts or institutes to be mentioned about this law. It's bonds, parties and risk analysis. In short, I would refer to all these three institutes. So, what was necessary in changing the existing legislation is to expand the circle of taxpayers who follow and act preventively in this system of money laundering control and investment funds of the fund management company that manages voluntary pension insurance. It was also necessary to extend the circle of taxpayers to those institutions that provide money transfer services, which provide bail-giving services, also, what we talked about today, and to lawyers, to law offices and partner law firms. What's important to point out in this law is that the parties are in some way the objects of this law, the subjects of this law. It is also an extended circle of these parties, and starting with a group of risks. Therefore, the obligor in this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing must go from several important moments when a risk analysis is carried out, when it comes to money laundering, these are three groups – the risk of the party, the risk of service, the risk of the country and the previous experience of taxpayers with the party. The party's risk, I'll remind you, according to the model offered here for discussion and adoption are politically exposed persons, when the party is not present in identifying and verifying identity, transactions involving large cash transactions, there are some transactions that do not have economic logic, etc. The second component is the risk of service provided by the obligor in the context of its activity. It's also a very significant risk for the country. The first is countries with a weak system of protection and control of financial transactions, as well as previous experience of taxpayers with the party. What is the quality of this law is also the norm of the relationship between the administration to prevent money laundering and taxpayers, on the one hand, as well as the communication of administrations and other state bodies, the state prosecutor's office, courts and other state institutions. I don't think the solutions in this law leave any gap in interpretation. They're strictly standardizing this correlation between all these institutions. On this line, I will continue briefly on international legal aid in criminal matters. So tomorrow, national institutions, transnational institutions and the UN and the Council of Europe simply impose their relevant documents on us to have one system law, one round law like this here that lies before us. This makes us an active factor both in Europe and in the wider world in this very important area, and especially because so far the solutions that exist in the Criminal Procedure Act are not consistently implemented, provided the basis for different interpretations, different application of the plea, in terms of extradition, in terms of detention, etc. This law in our normative system will certainly be valuable, and especially its implementation. In short, I will also look back on the third law that lies in a united debate, so on this law on parent books. So far, the solutions we have heard from the promoters, we have heard from representatives of the parliamentary groups, they are dispersive, they are not found in one place, they are anachron and termnological, they are anachron in a fundamental sense. The parent books, the minister said, may not be a politically attractive topic, but they are very important to our citizens. From my personal experience, I have asked myself, and I believe all of you, for years and decades ago, for those famous six months of the validity of one document, and on various counters and in courts or in front of the authorities of the administration, in which the regulation states that a particular document, for example, a copy of the birth certificate or a copy of the book of marriage should not "be" more than six months old. So it's one established practice, there was no regulation. This law definitely breaks up with this practice and allows citizens to use a document representing a copy of the birth certificate, whether born, married or dead, regardless of when the document is issued. The quality of this law is also what we talked about during the morning, and that is the electronic form of publishing parent books, and that is double-booking, and it is necessary to meet these technological assumptions, material, etc. It was given here in the bill of law that financial resources are needed. We have several pilot projects in Serbia, Belgrade, where every citizen can access data or take a document, a birth certificate and a place where he doesn't belong, either at birth, or at the time of his marriage. The mother data is very important and the etymology of this syntagma itself – the parent book, says it is the basic data from which all other data originate. We've got one rounded system and we've got it in terms of parent books. In the debate on amendments, we will analyse the individual institutes proposed by these laws. We'll try to get to the best of solutions. In any case, I call on all MPs, it is noticeable that MPs from MP groups who belong to the opposition have also supported many of the solutions of these three laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14598	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the NS MP Group, the LDP Parliamentary Group, the DSS Group, the SRS Parliamentary Group, as well as the SNS Parliamentary Group. On the basis of Article 100(7), I would like to inform you that the time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 64 minutes and 28 seconds. The first of the people's MPs, according to the application for a word, is Elvira Kovač, and after that, MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14599	Dear Madam Minister, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we of the SVM advocate the adoption of regulations and all other measures to remove our visas from the EU as quickly as possible. By passing these three draft laws that are in front of us, but at first I must express my great regret that the fourth law that was planned, that we are discussing it today, the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, is not here and that it is withdrawn from the procedure, we are opposed, as we have heard, to the proposal for a law on international legal aid and criminal matters, the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as well as the most concrete, which our citizens are most interested in, the proposal for a law on parent books, so they will meet the necessary conditions in the EU accession process and we hope that we will soon adopt a law on the prohibition of discrimination. In short, I will talk about the first two draft laws, only to explain, by the ruling majority, by those who support the adoption of these laws, what they are about. The adoption of the first law on international legal aid in criminal matters will regulate the procedure for providing international legal assistance, improve the co-operation of our country, the Republic of Serbia, with other countries in criminal matters, and in this way will be possible, i.e. to speed up the criminal proceedings conducted for very significant, major crimes of organised crime. As a full member of the UN, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to bring its legislation into line with the ratified conventions of these and other international organisations, such as the Council of Europe, etc. Once again, I stress, the party I belong to, the SVM advocates full membership of our country in the EU and the SVM MPs and the Minority Group will always vote to comply and adapt legislation to EU standards. The aim of the second law, the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, is to improve the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and to bring international standards back together in this area. Once again, I would like to stress that the adoption of these laws that we are discussing today is one of the preconditions and priorities in order to abolish the visa regime by the EU. For the longest time, however, I would like to refer to the proposal for a law on parent books, since most likely our citizens are most interested in editing the areas of the parent books. For all of us, it is important to finally determine the uniqueness and authenticity of the parent books, because of the request for copies from the same. One of the newspapers, which is in this proposal for a law on parent books, is that this proposal prescribes the use of language and letter in the process of entering data in the parent books and that, as far as we are concerned, is the entry of a personal name in the language, according to the law of members of national minorities. In his presentation, the Head of the Minority Group, Mr Balint Pastor, mentioned that we have proposed the amendment together, and I am very sorry that Mr. Minister is not currently in the O.R. We hope that he will have heard of our amendment, which we want to avoid negative practice, that is, what is happening in practice, to be a concrete provision for the law by which the names of persons who want to be able to enroll in their language, according to the spelling of that national minority, of course, and the Cyrillic, but it should be emphasized, that there are no obstacles, or misunderstandings, as the article actually applies. On the other hand, there are several other newspapers that several speakers have already mentioned today. I would like to stress that the SVM welcomes the management of this second copy of the parent book, the use of electronic data processing and storage means, precisely because this is finally in line with the development of the information system and the information society, and all of this represents one very important step in the radical change of that old, traditional implementation of administrative procedures. It will certainly speed up the publication of birth certificates and make the job much easier, as well as the demands of all citizens. The tendency is to form a database, of these parent books in electronic form, which would mean, we've heard that several times, plans are to network the organs, which will finally ensure that the release of copies from the parent books is not only built on one organ. So no matter where we look for a copy, no matter where we were born, we got married, etc. We'll get a copy of where we're looking. This will certainly make the lives of our citizens easier and therefore we support this provision. The other thing that wasn't in any way regulated, but somehow it came into practice, that they were considered valid only copies of the parent books that weren't over six months old, that's what some have been looking for, some don't. Now finally, by this new law, it is explicitly determined that the copies of the parent books do not have a period of validity, which means they do not have to look for a new one. Of course, if some changes occur in the meantime and in the legal traffic releases of non-modified data, then the person responsible for not using the new copy will be held responsible in this case. In light of the end of these draft laws, it will take a long time to complete everything planned, to build these electronic data processing systems, to network, etc. We hope, however, that this will happen in the near future, that we won't have to wait years for citizens to really feel the effects of this new law. Once again, SVM MPs will vote in favour of the bill's proposals, first because thanks to them we will arrive as soon as possible on the White Schengen list, and on the other hand, because we think that we finally need to regulate the parent books this way. Once again, I hope the government will hear of our amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14600	The People's Messenger Zoran Bortic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14601	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the esteemed fellow MPs, in addition to the constitutional basis for the adoption of a set of laws, also requires their adoption of full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the organisation of the UN and in other international organisations and associations. The need for new legal solutions in this area also rests on the fact that our legislation is adapted to modern norms established by the EU, whose membership our country is seeking. With the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all the issues which discuss the proposals for legislative solutions set out in this set have been regulated in principle, which the European Commission has also given its assessment for 2008, which states that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has legally established all the issues, but that framework laws have not yet been adopted, leading to the Commission's report on abuse in practice. Therefore, the Republic of Serbia as a legally responsible and regulated state needs to regulate these issues and therefore the set of these laws needs to be adopted. We therefore believe that, in accordance with the abovementioned standards, the legal regulation and issue of international legal assistance in criminal matters involving the extradition of the accused and convicted, the takeover and the imposition of criminal prosecution, the execution of a criminal conviction in a foreign state, as well as other forms of international legal aid must be regulated. This law will permanently eliminate many misunderstandings and misunderstandings, which characterize our reality over the past years. At the same time, the adoption of this law in the best possible way will develop constitutional principles that regulate this area. In the area of international standards for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is necessary to bring our legislation into line with the UN Convention, against the illicit trafficking of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances from 1988, the Convention against Organized Transnational Crime of 2000, the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which the Republic of Serbia confirmed in July 2002. The Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Confiscation and Confiscation of Crime Income from 1990, which was ratified in 2002, as well as the 2005 Warsaw Convention, signed by the Republic of Serbia the same year. In the opinion of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is fully in line with those conventions and is in line with the highest standards in this area by regulating complex issues of the modern world. Finally, I would like to point out that so far the legislation on parent books has been passed in a significantly different legal arrangement and that many of the laws that regulate this area, especially in the part relating to the establishment of family legal status of children, citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, etc., have been quite inconsistencies. In this respect, the proposal for this law eliminates all the non-compliance mentioned, and the area of entry in the parent books, their keeping and issuing copies are regulated in accordance with the highest standards of modern legislation. The SPS-JS parliamentary group believes that the adoption of this law will best regulate the issue of parent books. At the same time, all the laws mentioned in this set have significantly improved our legal legislation, and therefore our parliamentary group will support the proposals of this law in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14602	The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister and members of the Government, New Serbia, has a lot of objections, first of all, to this procedure of calling for a session and the fact that the law on discrimination is so clear, so inexplicable, and so we say in one bold way removed from the agenda, and for four years it has been very serious and we all know that this is one of the laws that is a condition for this famous white Schengen list. It had previously happened similarly with environmental laws, and they were removed from the already scheduled session, i.e. the already scheduled session, where they were the topic of the agenda. Amendments were handed over, and everything was ready to really get into one serious discussion. A little earlier that happened with the Association Act. What is now becoming a practice, and it should actually be precedentd that it is these European laws, which should be a bridge towards entering Europe that we swear to, and we argue that Europe has no alternative, and yet I think Serbia has no alternative, at least for us, that these laws are placed on the agenda and not every time some of them get away with it, put out of reach of the public, get out of public sight for any reason, and then it is a delay in what we are saying has to happen and what we stand for. I expect that at least these laws that we have somehow encouraged to be ahead of us, be seriously considered, that amendments be seriously and considered by the promoters and adopted, at least those guaranteeing that the law will be better. I believe that as a parliamentary group, we have been very constructive so far. We have proposed amendments that were both quality and necessary, proof of that is precisely what many have adopted. So we did this time and I expect, indeed, understanding, first of all, Mr. Minister Markovic because we have submitted important amendments to the law on parent books. I see that similar thinking has been held by other parliamentary groups. What in these laws, at least at this first point of the agenda, we have to notice, is that there are several shortcomings, although we can't argue that the laws are quite good quality. In the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, there is one essential item that had to be regulated differently, which is the sustainability of data storage. It's stipulated by the law to be at least 10 years old, and there's no telling how much it's the most. Such data must be kept permanently, at least in one place, because of everything that will later happen, because of any possible monitoring, because of all the events we have had in the near past, which Europe has in its experience, it would be important that we regulated these data by law to be kept permanently. As far as the parent books are concerned, the parent books are national treasures. The parent books contain what is most important, the most important data that makes us a people and that is what determines us. I welcome these changes in the adoption of the law on parent books. Some solutions are highly decorated. We've submitted two amendments. I expect both of them to be accepted by the minister, even when they are explained, because it is similar to the amendment that we have submitted to Article 18 as a parliamentary group, an amendment concerning the printing of data for persons born in another country, another city, that the data is not only written in Cyrillic letter and Serbian language, but rather that such data, the name of the state, the name of the city, and in the language and the letter of the state in which the person was born. Because you will admit there are many countries in the world where our citizens live, where they are born, where they register as our citizens, they are kept in our books of origin, in books born, in books of marriage, in books of the dead, and some names are pretty funny if we write them with Cyrillic. Also, we had an amendment to article 44 concerning the destruction or disappearance of parent books. It's something that requires serious work. A lot of this law is foreseen, a lot of it will be regulated and sublegal acts, and I think it's very serious and has been approached in the making of the law, but what we thought is important to predict is that in the renewal of destroyed or missing books, I think it's totally acceptable, following a document of the restored parent book must be a record, a file that speaks of conditions, details, about the perpetrators who caused or all those circumstances under which the disappearance or destruction of the parent books occurred. Because parent books are, above all, important documents for the history of a nation, of a country, and these documents talk about it. Exactly the case of Kosovo and the 6th member, which was taken over from the previous Law on Parent Books, therefore, continued, talks on it. We have to keep the parent books out of some territory precisely because we want to avoid them disappearing, destroying them, because the parent books are one of the most important documentation resources of a nation. Indeed, I am sorry that Minister Markovic is not here, I know that he is very closely following and very responsible for this approach. I expect that understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14604	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14605	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, in front of the SPS-JS Group, will be based on this set of laws more on the bill to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the necessity to prevent adverse consequences for the work of authorities and organisations responsible for combating money laundering, terrorist financing and other forms of crime, and above all organised, financial crime and corruption. Namely, our membership in the Egemont Group, an international organisation for financial intelligence, under which the administration exchanges data with another 108 countries in the world, implies that legislation is agreed with international standards as soon as possible, especially in the area of preventing terrorist financing. Maintaining full membership in the Egemont Group is crucial for the work of all authorities responsible for the fight against crime, given that money laundering and terrorist financing are to the greatest extent international crimes and that the fight against them on the national agenda cannot be imagined without more effective international co-operation. If the Republic of Serbia does not pass a law prescribing preventive measures in the fight against terrorist financing and international data exchange on the plan, members of the Management of the "Egemont" group will be suspended, thus suspending the overall very intense and divergent international co-operation and exchange of information. And staying in the Egemont Group depends on the adoption of laws that will cover preventive measures against terrorist financing and give Serbia the opportunity to exchange data with foreign financial-intelligence services. The Council of Europe Committee "Manival" will carry out an assessment of the measures and actions that the Republic of Serbia is taking in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The process of evaluation and evaluation that our system will receive is of paramount importance for the state, and it is necessary that the Republic of Serbia adopt this law as well as that its application begin, in order to assess its positive effects. In addition, the adoption of a new law is one of the preconditions and priorities set out in the procedure for the adoption of a set of laws to abolish the visa regime with the European Union, and for these reasons, they are proposed to adopt them as urgently as possible. I must stress that as a full member of the United Nations, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to bring its legislation into line with the ratified conventions of that international organisation. The bill does not provide for the education of new ones, but for the use of existing resources and capacities by competent state authorities. The implementation of this bill requires the provision of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As our country's definition of full membership in the European Union, Serbia is in the process of harmonising and adapting legislation, with requirements and standards of the European Union. The proposal for this law is fully in line with the standards, i.e. the rules of the European Union. The main objective of adopting a new law is to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, which is to improve existing systems of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and to bring the law into line with all international standards in this area. So the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this law, in principle, as well as the other laws of this set. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14606	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14607	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, as representative of the LDP, I will underline once more, the LDP will support this set of laws. The reasons for this are more than clear, are contained in what is called the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what is called the interpretation of the texts of these draft laws, namely, it stands explicit – the confirmation of the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Extraditation, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the United Nations Convention against the Illegal Transport of Drug and Psychotropic Substances, the Convention against Organized Transnational Crime, and that I do not list further and that I do not repeat the argument, therefore, no strategy for joining European Integrations, without this set of laws. Maybe I can underline some inconsistencies about the role of attorney in one of these laws, but we don't think that's essential. We may also be able to criticise the debate in this package about the law on parent books, but it is not essential either. It's just that we're bound by Article 16. The Constitution and it is necessary to abide by it. Of course, I would also point out that we are sorry that the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were no longer taken into account by the proposals of the LDP, because we are just apropo of what I was talking about now had amendments that speed up the lawmaking process concerning European integration. So we regret that the government has not heard of what is rightly in favor and that it helps to do this job more effectively, which we have all agreed on today and gathered together. Regarding what I was talking about, which is what my colleague Andric was talking about, is also something that can be called the paradoxes of the LDP. I would not only call it the paradoxes of the LDP, but the paradoxes of the entire political public of the Serbian state. Namely, we who ran an anti-constitutional campaign, and even now we always claim that this constitution is disastrously bad, insist on upholding constitutional norms and respecting the Constitution, because no matter how it is, it is the only one and we are obliged to respect it and it is necessary to respect it. Accordingly, the question, if we are already insisting on the respect of Article 16, why should we not insist on the respect of Article 21 of this Constitution regarding the prohibition of discrimination and which points to the necessity, therefore, necessity, direct application of constitutional norms? Similarly, the question of the ruling coalition and government – what unknown forces have affected the withdrawal of the law on discrimination, when is it also the place in the package of these laws that we are discussing today? I would add the correctness of the Justice Department. In an extremely correct and detailed way, the representative of the Justice Ministry has provided explanations about what we are doing today, taking into account the law on discrimination. Yesterday on the Legislative Committee, where, Malten, a consensus was reached on all these issues, even on the law on discrimination, there were no separate opinions, and hence so many surprises, which led to the withdrawal of this law. Of course, the appeal and question of the ruling majority – why is the Ministry of Justice allowed to be a 'one straw among the storms', and then, in a magical way, a law is withdrawn without which there is no European integration?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14608	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, and after that, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the United States, before I begin to analyse the draft laws that are on the agenda today, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that today's agenda points that should not have been merged, primarily because they are not joined together by anything in common. What does the law on the prohibition of discrimination, which, for the sake of truth, has to do with preventing money laundering, or financing terrorism, or what does the law on parent books have to do with providing international legal assistance in criminal matters? Of course there could be a reason for joining the dots. It was perfectly logical for me that they were joined, for example, by law on the provision of international legal aid in criminal matters with the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and with all other conventions that are on the agenda today, because it would be part of the same continent and would, in the end, be logical to merge. At the very least, the aim of such laws and the adoption of such laws is to bring them into line with international standards and in general with all existing international conventions in this area. Before I refer to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, I would ask the competent minister to answer my question – which court will be in charge of acting on international pleas, the issue concerns Belgrade courts, given the fact that so far it was the First Municipal Court and he still has such jurisdiction? The issue is raised primarily because of the fact that the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors is yet to be applied. For that very reason, I believe that we have no answer to this question and that it would not be bad if the minister in charge gave us that answer. When looking at the bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, what first falls into the eyes is its abundance and in certain situations its ambiguity that requires and requires further interpretations. In order for one law to be easily enforceable in practice, it is necessary for its provisions to be clear, that there is no need for additional interpretations and what is worst in this case, it is that there is no need for one member to point to another, or to a third member, as is the case with these laws in several places. First of all, I think what needs to be avoided is the creation of confusion in the person who needs to apply this law. We better do it now than when it's too late. The law, in addition to preventing money laundering, deals with and prevents terrorist financing, but I would say very modestly, only through the practical definition of a terrorist organisation and persons who are under the influence of a poet. So we don't have any more serious access to this matter and that's why it seems, at least to me that he's been brought in pro-forma in this case. One of the major objections to this proposal, the law at least as regards the DSS Group, is Chapter 3 relating to the actions and measures that lawyers and law firms are obliged to take in relation to the detection, that is, the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. I don't think lawyers and law firms should be equalized with bonds within the meaning of this law. They cannot be forced to take these measures, primarily because it can be important to reflect the integrity of their call, primarily given the nature of the lawyer's call and the specific relationship between the lawyer and his client. On the other hand, I'd only be putting out a few grudges when it comes to individual members of this law. Time does not allow me to go too deep into this analysis, because, as I said, you have combined the incompatible and MPs of the DSS in this way are unable to access the analysis of these legal proposals in a more serious way. First of all, when it comes to Article 3, he deals with defining the concepts which apply in this law. I'm thinking that your place in defining concepts should have the Department of Prevention of Money Laundering. This term was necessary to add and clearly define its role. I don't think the concept of property is comprehensively regulated. It would be good, therefore, if he had been extended by a concept such as: precious metals, works of art, and valuables, because in this way his interpretation would have been more comprehensive. Also, I don't think the term "quasibank" or "pro form bank" is adequate. In fact, it is about banks established in one state, but they physically do not exist or perform their work. In the banking language, they're called "Kel Banks." I believe that it should be consulted by someone who is professional and whether the Secretariat of Law or any other competent state authority may be able to contribute to finding an adequate term for the name of such banks. When it comes to Article 13, he can confuse us because he defines how to identify a person, with the mandatory presence of a person whose identification is carried out. I believe that this member is in collegiate with Article 31, where it is said that identity can also be established without the party's physical presence. If we were to start from interpreting Article 13, it would lead us to, in fact, make it impossible for any business co-operation to exist, unless the party is physically present. I think this would lead to major confusion and at all the inability to do a valid job and therefore I believe that this member should also be defined. Finally, in Article 77, I don't think the deadlines are adequately set. It's too long to keep a record. They've been assigned here for 10 years. I think this deadline should be met with a European directive that speaks of a period of "not less than five years". I don't see any reason for these long deadlines for keeping records, and I think this should change. On the other hand, I have already said that DSS MPs have been prevented from accessing these legal proposals even more seriously in one way. With this I will take part in the discussion of the details, and I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Minister for his attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14610	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that the representatives of the government won't be very moved by the fact that you know it yourself, which is that our parent books were born much thinner than those books of parenting died in. Each year in the state of Serbia, a city of 25 to 30,000 people disappears. For that, almost none of you care, sometimes that, though, is mentioned, but everything remains on it. The only thing that seems important to you is to combine what is incompatible and to adopt as many laws as possible by an emergency procedure as possible, just to get some positive opinion from a European Commission again. There's one rule he says, it's really painful to see a blind man led to a break-in by a man who sees and his killer. However, it is also difficult to see a blind man led by another blind man pretending to see. That's exactly what's happening to us. What you're doing to us, making us copy some Western values, which are actually absolutely impossible to copy in our terms, is actually that story. He who wrote the bill on parent books tried to write it in his own way. However, I suppose he also had problems with some order to do this job as quickly as possible, by emergency procedure. As a result, this law has quite an indetermination, quite a bit of error, there are some things that need to be added and corrected, etc. It's no problem to do that if you have a bit of good faith and a little less vanity. If there is a reasonable doubt that the incorrect information entered in the parent’s book is required to verify it prior to enrolment. What if the parent doesn't realize that some data he's writing is incorrect? What if he just thinks for a moment that there's a reasonable doubt, so he thinks you're gone and he doesn't do that before he logs in? Why not let someone else report that flaw? That's why we're asking that prior to enrolment, a parent should carry out a data check that was incorrectly pointed at by an interested person. I think that increases the accuracy of parent books and improves legal certainty and ultimately, it's in everyone's best interests at all. Besides, you say enrolment can be delayed for verification and that's good. However, we wonder, can this enrolment be delayed by someone's will for a month, two, three, five, six, or what? Is it possible to give a parent or perhaps to one of his executives or chiefs a discretionary right to decide for himself what time limit it will be for him to postpone enrolment in the parent book? That's why we're asking for a stay of enrolment to check out the weapons. Maybe it seems a little harmless, in practice it's really necessary. However, how can you believe that these seemingly harmless things should be corrected when at every opportunity and in every place you create the impression of a generalized absurdity? In that absurdity, average normal man loses ground under his feet. It's no longer clear to him whether what's happening to him is a dream or a public one. To be clear, here's a simple example of that absurde you agree to. Imagine a movie where the house burns, and the family gathers to celebrate the birthday, smoke rolls all over the place and they sit there like nothing's going on. Absurd that there's no bigger, even, says, in one corner, the mother puts the child to sleep in a cradle that's under the burning beam. Imagine that absurd. Do you see the similarity of this event, of this film, of the events that happen to us, as state and society? Some pretend to see nothing, yet they convince us that everything will be fine just to join the EU, there are billions of dollars waiting for us, there is prosperity, etc. Do you see the absurdity of today's decision of the Administrative Committee? Imagine what's going on? This will enter the annals of the Assembly – violation of the Constitution, violation of the law, violation of the Rules of Procedure. There's terror and dictatorship of one party and one man here. However, this will be even more said by my colleagues who attended the Administrative Committee. There's one more thing about books of origin. You're saying that the errors in the parent's books observed after the entry is completed can only be corrected by the parent's decision of the competent authority. When does he fix them? Is it the same thing to fix them right now or after six months? That is why we ask that these mistakes that the parent encountered after the entry was completed, he corrects immediately, and no later than seven days after receiving a solution from the competent authority. Or, on the refusal of a request for insight into the parent books, as well as the files on the basis of which the entry into the parent books was made, the competent authority shall adopt a solution in accordance with the law governing the general administrative procedure. According to this proposal, if an entry is refused once, the application cannot be submitted anymore. What if, after some time, new circumstances arise that did not exist or did not stand out in the original request? Surely, in some time after a judicial solution and after such facts and circumstances that arise, it is necessary to allow for insight into the parent’s books. Otherwise, they are not public documents in the right sense, but they only look at all the haughtiness and self-will of the government. We are quite used to this haughtiness and self-will by the authorities so far; mafia privatisations, millions of unemployed, an increase in unemployment, and thus increases the number of murders, suicides, prisoners and mental patients, etc. Hundreds of thousands of social cases, you've made the population a poor woman who has nothing to eat, and her mouth and stomach are known to be the greatest enemies of poverty. Unfortunately, there's one exact saying about this, he says, when a poor man and a hungry man eats a chicken, one of them is sick. Indeed, you have made a sick nation and a sick state. And contrary to them, a small, marginalized group of people, some of them we saw on the Kopalnik, overnight she grabbed most of the capital, has an excessive desire to control the entire government in the state. There's a nice Latin saying, many of these should know it, he says. The one who got rich in a year was supposed to hang 12 months ago. It's a really, really nice saying. You say, if death occurred under extraordinary circumstances, the fact of death is recorded in the home book of the inhabited place where death is buried. What are the circumstances? Who determines when these extraordinary circumstances occurred? We ask that the Ministry of Parent Book Management determine that, therefore, which are extraordinary circumstances and who determines them. It seems to me that the ministry that determines what these extraordinary circumstances are in the next period will have a lot of work to do. There is a great responsibility for you from the ruling majority. Don't forget that at the point of happiness, they say, they drive four, one goes up, the other goes down, the third goes up, and the fourth goes down. You've turned that wheel of happiness, you're seemingly on top, but I'm saying, you turned it around and watch where it stops. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14612	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The time available to the NS parliamentary group is four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the reason why this agenda is ahead of us and this set of laws is, above all, a white Schengen list, but it is unacceptable that there are no economic matters here in front of us, because the state is in a major crisis. It's just amazing that there's no law on the National Assembly, because it's a constitutional obligation. So all we can tell the citizens of Serbia is that we're going to pass some laws where the white Schengen list will improve everyone's life. Of course, Serbian citizens should travel freely, without various burdens and without various visas, but whether this is the first thing at the moment, that is the question to which the answer will be in some days to come. If we are talking about a set of laws that are before us, especially when we talk about criminal aid, surely that law should establish some reciprocity between states, some reciprocity. Madam Minister, the NS MPs will have amendments that you should accept, especially those relating to Article 65, where you give consent, we think that the six-month deadline is too long and should be reduced to three months. It may not mean anything to anyone, but there are often incidents at the end of the sentence, and I think there's room for you to think about. What I would especially like to point out is that the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing applies, above all, to law enforcement. These suggestions are scandalous. One of the basic principles of law enforcement is keeping secret clients and those people in need of defence, and basically lawyers are forced here to be some spies, some state detectives, and that's all unacceptable. I would particularly point out in Article 49, of this law, that if certain things do not have a clear character, practically, that if a lawyer notices anything, he should be written to inform the Administration of the reasons for which he did not act in accordance with the request of the Administration. Stav (3) says: ''The lawyer is not obliged to provide data on cash transactions referred to in Article 37(1) of this Act, unless there is a basis for suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing in relation to a person or transaction. '"What's a lawyer supposed to be practically in something like this? Is there at the same time supposed to be an investigative judge, to run the process of whether it's money laundering, whether all lawyers are always able to assess whether it's money laundering or not? Is that why a lawyer should be sanctioned? Is tomorrow's bar for overcoming that sanction supposed to ban him from working? Madam Minister, what is this about? It is an integral part of the justice system, I will remind you that Bozidar Djelic was an advocate in 2001 to restrict the freedom of work for lawyers, that they cannot receive pensions at the same time and do their job. It fell in the Constitutional Court, Madam Minister. This will certainly fall in the Constitutional Court as well. This is something that's inapplicable. Don't be over the imaginary future uncertain circumstances, such as the white Schengen list, that you bring confusion here when it comes to law enforcement. We have knowledge, one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14614	The People's Parliament time available to your MP's group has been used. Thank you. The Members of Parliament, the application of the Rules of Procedure and the definitions in all members on time are very clear, both for members of your parliamentary group and for all other MPs, members of any other parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14615	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the honourable colleague addressed the Minister of Justice to Mrs Malovic, and the law you spoke of was from the section of the Ministry of Finance, we believe that the objections you made are the remarks that need to be discussed well. Mrs. Malovic and I will draw special attention to the finance minister to pay attention to what you have said, about lawyers and the measures that should be taken. So be sure that Mrs Malovic and I will pass on all this that we have now discussed with the finance minister. Either something will change or you'll get some other assurance from the finance minister who would be in favour if this was the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14616	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, and after it is the word of Parliament MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14617	The Honorable Presidency, Ms. Minister, MPs and MPs, the LDP will support these laws on today's agenda in voting day. Normally, we will support these laws since we consider them the same from the so-called. a set of European laws. We would especially note the fact that we like to hear when it comes to harmonising domestic rules with EU rules. We like to hear something about the government trying to continue on the white Schengen list. So it keeps repeating itself as a mantra harmonisation of regulations and a white Schengen list. Then what's going on? It happens that a few hours before the debate on a serious law, such as the anti-discrimination law, will be withdrawn from the procedure. If we really think about this harmonisation and this white Schengen list, then it is unclear what reasons the government has been conducting to remove this law of discrimination from the procedure. We've heard some arguments. The explanation is that it was done at the request of religious communities. In particular, I would draw attention to the honourable MPs, that he is a member of the 11th. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that Serbia is a world state, and it is also foreseen that churches and religious communities are separate from the state. If that's true, then how could it have happened that the completely non-institutional religious communities were affecting the government's proposal and withdrawing this law from the procedure? With whom do we think we are harmonising regulations, whether with the EU and its regulations or with the interests of religious communities? If we're interested in a white Schengen list, then why are we withdrawing from the procedure a law that is one of the essential conditions for us to be a visa-free regime. So these are two key questions for this law, which is obviously missing from today's debate, and it is obvious that MPs have noticed some gap in today's discussion, because this law is important for that white Schengen list. As far as these other laws are concerned, I would just like to read the reasons for the government's passing of laws on international legal aid in criminal matters. He says: "By confirming the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Extradition and the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to implement those documents in its legal system. ". If so, then a little dissonantly sounds Article 16(1) and point 3 of this law. Why? Because this law provides for a ban on the extradition of domestic citizens or in case a criminal case has been brought against a domestic citizen in connection with a criminal offence for which extradition is sought. I note that this article is a 16th fact-finding relic of 19th-century European political nationalism, with us simply being able to install one guarantee in this provision, one possibility that, instead of a general ban on the extradition of its own citizens, it is predicted that citizens will not be extradited in the event that there are serious reasons that foresee the possibility of a trial that would not be fair, so that even international agreements, in terms of human rights, also provide some guarantee for such cases. Otherwise, our Code of Criminal Procedure in Article 548(2) provides for the same possibility, because this provision is in direct contrast and is completely contradictory to this reasoning of the law, as well as to these conventions on extradition and human rights contracts. Therefore, we believe that a certain correction should be made in respect of this law, and in the rest of the way, we believe that all these laws, which are on the agenda today, are fully acceptable to the LDP and that they justify what the government is saying, are the same pro-European and aim at harmonising domestic rules with EU rules, as well as that Serbia finally experiences the visa regime being abolished. Normally, with that fence, we cannot do it with restraints and we cannot keep calling only on the fact that we meet the conditions, above all, have to do it in the interest of our legal regulations, in the interest of our citizens, in the interest of modernising our legal system and accepting certain values that have shown that they have certain civilizational significance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14618	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, under article 101, to reply to the presentation of Minister Milan Markovic, and based on the assessment of the MP, there was an error of interpretation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using this right of my own, thanking Mr. Secretary who recognized from my exposure to the problems that may arise. First of all, problems would arise because legal action, Mr. Minister, would be completely questioned. It would practically mean that lawyers could bring up secrets, if someone confided in them for some crime, for some defense, it would be a total legal mess, and I'm glad that you got out right after my exposure. It is another proof that New Serbia's MPs are correct in their remarks, and that they want to fix the laws, that we rightly criticise something that is not good. I think you've protected law enforcement in this way from a lot of naddrifiers who appear in all of Serbia's cities, because any lawyer, if they were forced to investigate these things during a procedure, money laundering, or something like that, then basically lawyers would come into a situation to get away from any sales contract, because they would have to face some things that aren't in their job description. I think it's covered by that Warsaw convention. You should be extremely careful, Madam Minister. I think a lawyer is an integral part, and it is, a judicial system, and it doesn't need to be implemented like this. It's dangerous, both for legal activity and for the entire legal system. I thank you again, and I hope we know the outcome of your exposure here very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14620	The word has a People's MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic. The time available for the DSS Parliamentary Group is 16 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14621	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the very fact that a united debate on the three legislative proposals is being held is causing one misunderstanding among most opposition MPs. So, the first two draft laws, the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters and the bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, have nothing to do with the bill on parent books. These laws are important, but there were certainly more important topics and more important things in this country to discuss in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. But how difficult it is to conduct this kind of united debate, with regard to laws that do not have any points of contact with each other, I will refer to the proposal for a law on parent books. This law is, above all, a technical law and has its foothold in the Constitution, it's an art. 42nd and 97th. The constitution and that law have its own good and bad sides. It is good in this law that citizens will no longer have to go back to taking out a copy of the birth certificate, married, which has expired a period of importance of six months or a year, and it is good that this law will be brought into line with some basic laws, and the fact is that the Law on Parent Books has not been harmonised for years and in reasons for the law to be passed is explained, that these laws that regulate this area have divided us for more than 25 years, even 30 years, and in some things ten or fifteen years. The DSS has tabled three amendments to this bill and I'm going to say something about these amendments, as they apply. Certainly, the aim of the amendment is to fix this law, not to change its meaning, not to change it, that it has no purpose, but to fix it. It's about art. 15 and 72, especially a member of 72, of which there is talk of the management of parent books in diplomatic and consular representations. There are supposed to be two copies of these books. One copy is kept in diplomatic and consular representations, and the other in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We suggest that there is also a third copy of these parent books to be kept in the authority of the state administration, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. What does it matter? Because that way, first of all, we'll sort out the voter list. Because we will allow citizens living outside the borders of this country to, in a far easier way, get the requested document in the real body dealing with this type of problem, not to address the copy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think it's more natural, and I think it's certainly more important that there's one central register about parent books. That's why we asked for the introduction of a third copy of the parent books. The third thing I would like to talk about is the last part of this bill, these are the financial resources provided for in this law. The sum of sumarum is provided for in the financial resources in 2010 and the following years and in the initial part of the implementation of the law 430 million dinars. So, looking, I get the impression and I'm convinced that these are insufficient means to enforce one of these serious laws, especially if you see how these funds will be provided. It is predicted that one part of the funds is provided from the budget, the other from the NIP, and the third from local self-government, and I think that's the biggest problem. But not to return the story, and it's not bad to mention it, to return the story around the budget, and to see how much funding is allocated to the various users of the budget, and to one such important law and to equip one such serious service, which is the parent service, I'm afraid the funds will not be provided. We're getting into trouble, the problem is the law can't be implemented. This law should represent one serious thing and should in some way encourage and strengthen the state, that the state be responsible for its citizens, but I fear that in the funds and budgets as it has been designed and as it has been made, it will not be. All in all, I hope that in the decision-making day, the proposing representative will accept the reasons, but I don't see him here right now, he probably hasn't heard these concerns about these two members, but I hope that he will consider introducing a third copy of the parent books into diplomatic and consular representations, or that this third copy is kept in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14622	Thank you. Mr. Boris Aleksic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to say a few words concerning the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. I think there's a very difficult article 62 here, i.e. the acceptance of parts of the judgments of foreign states and their inclusion in the judgments of domestic courts. What's this about? Let me give you a concrete example of what all this can lead to. It is a verdict reached on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the County Court in Gospić, number K-4/03-185, the verdict of Serbia's returnee, Svetozar Karan, home number 110595335, etc. The son of Branko Karan and Ranka, born Karan with the residence of the 9th Guard Brigade bb, Korenica, born in Kestenovac on 11 May 1950, the municipality of Vojnic, a Serb by nationality. He is guilty and sentenced to 13 years in prison for some involvement in a fight, and the judgment of the County Court, that is the District Court, contains the following parts: "... because Croatia is certainly on the basis of the assessment of those on the outside before the collapse, which is the moment when the memorandum can be filled in as a whole, which we are, there was little lack of fulfillment." I quote all of this: "Vojvodina, Srijem and half of Bosnia are busy, and the other half will be easy to solve, only the line Virovitica, Karlovac, Karlobag, and for this reason all the criminals who committed crimes in Croatia are returning, and in fact they have committed genocide against the Croats, not only in this war, but together with others, have done so for over 500 years, since the arrival of the Turks, when the Croats came and destroyed them, and since they have planted these parts of Yugoslavia and practically destroyed them in certain areas, and now they want to take what is left of the remains of Croatia. In addition, despite the crime the defendant committed, it was practically rewarded. He took everything he had to Serbia, destroyed half of Croatia with the others, and returned to be rewarded by the state of Croatia. These, if anything is damaged, Croatia needs to restore it, while Croatia also neglects its volunteers who have fought for freedom and those refugees who have fled before it is known by whom, and it is rare to command the people who return, which is besides the others and the accused," that I no longer read this morbidity. It is again the verdict of the County County County Court in Gospić against the Serb returnee, Svetozar Karan. The verdict was made in 2003. Can you believe that something like this can be found in the judgments of Serbian courts, to be prescribed. I can't imagine it, but we can get into a situation like that. Such are their courts, for example. I also spoke earlier about the bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. I didn't get all the details to tell you. Once again, I would like to remind myself that I think the great failure of this law is because it does not specify us specifically, since we are a state that has been experienced in the fight against terrorism for more than 18 years, terrorist organizations with which we have had problems, specifically terrorists with whom we have had problems, and that is primarily Shiptarian terrorism. But remember, according to the Commission Report 9-11, which was formed after the September 11th terrorist attacks on the United States, that the report also included data that two main organisers of these terrorist attacks, Muhammad Ata and Halid Sheikh Muhamed, were involved in terrorist activities against the Serb people in KIM and BiH. This is one very interesting thing, and I don't think we should have overwritten some of the standards that exist in the EU in this way, because, in particular, once again, we have a great deal of experience with the fight against terrorism. I would also like to remind you, regarding the reasons for the adoption of this law, Mrs Malovic said that the EU is a leader in the fight against terrorism, that her standards are also very important in this regard, I would remind you that the EU has had major problems, among other things, with secret CIA prisons, that an investigation has been launched in the European Parliament, that this investigation has not led to anything, that these are very serious accusations, because people who have kidnapped certain citizens who are members of the EU have dealt with, among other things, terrorist activity. I remind you once again that Italian Professor Daniel Genzer, a professor of modern history, published a book entitled "The Secret NATO Army". He explained that NATO's secret armies existed in the nature of the terrorist group and exist in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Luxembourg, as well as in Turkey. According to his claims, they are trained and equipped by the CIA, "We 6" and NATO. Their basic strategy was a strategy of tightening and false flags, so-called. "false flags". What's this strategy about? Certain terrorist attacks, terrorist actions are being carried out, and other nations and other nations are being accused of these terrorist actions. In his book, Genzer discovered that NATO was the core of the terrorist network, and data related to the "Secret NATO Army" was also published by the "Geopoliticals". Genzer said the secret committee for the planning of the North Atlantic Alliance of the CPC and the Allied secret ACC committee were the foundations of secret armies across Western Europe. We remind you of the report by Julie Andreotti, president of the 1990 Council of Ministers, who recognised the existence of the so-called so-called Council of Ministers. "Hungry," as well as his obvious ties with the CIA "We 6" and NATO. It's a report on Operation Gladio, Andreotti, February 26, 1991, an official Italian government document. Also, Judge Felice Kason successfully proved that assassins in Italy in 1972 were members of the terrorist organisation "Ordinera Nuovo", among them Vincigera. He confessed to the murder with the help of the Italian secret police. Speaking of "Glady", this mobster confirmed that this militia was controlled by the NATO Pact and that its actions during the Cold War had resulted in the murder of civilians, women and children. It happened in 1985 in Bologna, when 85 people died. The biggest problem with all this is that Professor Genzer thinks these secret groups are still active. So he's a scientist, a professor of modern history. During the 1990s, an initiative was launched in the European Parliament to expose NATO, the CIA and the MI6 roles in creating secret terrorist groups on Europe's soil, and, of course, it was not implemented until the end. A letter was sent to George Bush, however, only partially conducted in Italy, Switzerland and Belgium. Professor Genzer mentions that there are data on the existence of a secret army called P 26 in Switzerland from 1990. He points out that all of this was warned by Francois Mitteran and that there was a famous controversy between Miteran and Andreotti on this issue. In the end, Admiral Pierre Lakost, former head of the French secret service, revealed information about the existence of secret armies in France and their involvement in the assassinations. Daniel Genzer does not rule out, therefore, the possibility that NATO paramilitary formations are still active and explains that NATO refuses today to talk about the strategy of tightness, as well as to publish information about "Gladija" for example. Look at the next situation. Under this law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, a certain functioning of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering is foreseen as a financial-intelligence service. Everyone knows that by fighting terrorism, even by financing terrorism, it's primarily the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Security. We could ask a very important question here. Dragan Filipovic, in his book, was otherwise a third man of the BIA, a security portfolio, published data that the BIA Intelligence Authority has existed since 2003, i.e. That intelligence doesn't deal with intelligence. I ask the question – is it true? Also, I ask the question – is it true that persons employed by the Intelligence Authority do not have the authority of an official? That means they can't even ID anyone. On the other hand, the secret police of the state in our region are engaged in intelligence work, so-called intelligence. the border work and the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You know very well that there are both active and Croatian intelligence, Slovenian intelligence and other services. So our security service has a serious fail-safe that can't even make up for financial intelligence -- the service, as you called it. So this situation would have to be rectified. I'm also asking you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14624	Thank you. The MP, Mr. Miroslav Petkovic, has a word. Your task force has nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14625	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS MPs during today's debate suggest that you have succeeded in bringing together what is incompatible and that this is an act of parliamentary debate. What you do every day is to play life in Serbia, but you will have the opportunity to explain it to Serbian citizens in some future period. The only thing I was able to find that could link these two laws, primarily related to international legal aid and to preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, is an explanation, though, for this first law, it was packed on four sides, like that, all compressed into one pile, and your associates, Mrs. Malovic, have made an effort for this second law to deliver to us tax-delivery and it really looks much better. In this last paragraph, it is mentioned in the explanation that these laws are necessary for EU accession, that they are necessary to achieve all that Mr Bozidar Djelic has announced in so-called. a road map to the EU and visa reliefs for Serbian citizens. The fact is, if Serbia gets those visa reliefs, it's the only pre-election promise that will be fulfilled this year, though, personally, I don't believe in it at all. We can hand over the EU bid, Ollie Rehn will certainly pack that candidacy in some drawer and end up in some basement, in some basement in some plot, and there's nothing in the next period, but if you think that's good, then let it serve the government of Mr Cvetkovic. The minister said that this substance that regulates international legal aid is regulated, in part, by the criminal code and, of course, that this matter should be better defined. What is the paper in this law is that this area of law enforcement is being extended to certain actions before the authorities of the administration that have consequences for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and that is what I see as a particular newspaper in this law. What is the objection of the DSS MP, which our authorised representative spoke of in his discussion today, is that communication of domestic judicial authorities with the blurred state takes place through the Ministry of Justice, but so on. direct communication, under the condition of reciprocity. Article 8 of the proposed law provides for something very, very unusual, namely, that if there is no interrelationship, we consider it to be present and we have asked our amendment to change it, so it does not. Also, what's very strange is about the length of detention that's scheduled for the longest one year. We want an effective judiciary, and we're sure that if you represent it like that, the judiciary can do that job in six months, so we've submitted an amendment asking that that deadline be reduced to six months. Also, in Article 91, we think it is inadmissible that in no way can it contribute to a better resolution of matters, that representatives of the foreign judicial authority are involved and present at the taking of certain procedural actions in the Republic of Serbia. I think the law provides for sufficient authority for representatives of foreign judicial authorities to participate in certain procedures, but no way did you foresee it in Article 91. It is a very short time, I will try to look back on this second law and the biggest regret, which has given us a series of e-mails and messages, from the DSS parliamentary group, which primarily refers to Chapter III of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which are provisions, meaning members from 46th to 49th and a number of other members who are further under discussion and the position of the law profession in Serbia, as you see it in the future period. Unfortunately, in this House, lawyers did not rebel against it, and I know that there are many people among you who deal with this honorable profession, and we think that it is completely abnormal, that as a colleague called me this morning and said: from now on, my firm will have a lawyer, Petrovic, and below, a spy and a stalker will write. That's totally inadmissible. I want to believe, Mrs. Malovic, that you didn't write this law, that it was written by Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic. Obviously, she didn't get along with the budget or the budget rebalances, but we'll have a chance to ask her about it when she came in March or April of the month and tried to explain the budget rebalance. The fact is, at least I want to believe you wouldn't let something like this stand in this bill. Therefore, the DSS Parliamentary Group proposes that the entire Chapter III be deleted from this law. What is also scandalous is provided for in Article 50 of this law, that a list of indicators for facial recognition and transactions that are suspected of money laundering are drawn up by lawyers. Please, colleague Markovic is also a lawyer, perhaps a future lawyer, will not be Minister of Life, suggests you change this, accept the DSS amendment and thus try to avoid this because in the whole tax code, the tax administration has not received any of this authority. The Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering has no new authority. We even suggested that we avoid this in some way, that jurisdiction be transferred to them and that the Money Laundering Prevention Authority deal with this business. I'm afraid you used today's session to pass some laws that shouldn't exist in this form. I can congratulate the ruling coalition on exceptional courage. You've shown the last three days in the bathroom that you have a big heart. The economy, the economy and the banking system of this country are falling apart. Some ministers, who hang around the government of the Republic of Serbia, are sitting in Kopalnik. You take pictures, skis, snowballs. Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic had a ski derby last night with a representative of a foreign state under the reflectors, which is why the final session at the meeting is moving. What I can tell you is that Serbian citizens are increasingly talking about some flights. I don't think they mean ski boards. They mention poles, and they're not ski sticks, and they're more often referred to as some fairies. Think carefully in the next period as to how you behave and what you do. You can sleep, you can hide, you can fly fishing, you can ski in winter, but the citizens of Serbia will have absolutely no use for that. The map of the road and the whole process that needs to go through that road map is run by a leader who is obviously not able to see 100 meters ahead of him, let alone a few years ahead. I think Prime Minister Cvetkovic and this incompetent and irresponsible government are leading us into a deep abyss from which it will take a long time to get this country out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14626	Mr. Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. Your task force has 44 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14627	Dear Presidency, colleagues, for the second time today I am talking about this law on money laundering and the prevention of terrorism. Indeed, the law is more than a strange, confusing, absurd and ambience that you create and that you create with several sets of laws that you have passed over the past few months is more than absurd. Some of these laws will not be applicable, some will be only applicable in parts, but you are only doing so to enlist the EU, to rewrite as many of their laws as possible, to bring as many of their laws here, to meet some of their conditions for fulfilling the various political wishes that come to us from Western Europe. This law on financing terrorism through money laundering, which is one crime that arises from many other crimes, such as drug trafficking, people, organs, all of which, unfortunately for us, we have had here to experience, there are several more very serious issues, where you literally turn this society into a Balkan spy. What fellow lawyers have been saying through these shops and measures that should be taken by law offices or lawyers, to see what some of their clients are doing and whether these people will be their clients if this law comes into force, it raises one big question. I'm just going to quote a few of the selected actions and measures that you've proposed with this law. He says: "Knowledge of the party and follow-up of its business (hereinafter referred to as: knowledge and monitoring of the party), regular vocational education, training and training of party monitoring employees. ''Is it the law offices to become intelligence or counterintelligence centres, that lawyers lead to some kind of security seminars of their interns, their coffee cooks, their cleaners, so that they can scan at all levels that their business partner or client who shows up at the door of their law firm? They're really amazing nonsensions. "Providing regular internal control and enforcement of the obligation under this law." So, this lawyer is required to check his interns, associates, assistants, coffee cooks and cleaners, do they regularly scan every one of their clients when they show up at the door of their office? "Keeping records, protecting and keeping data from these records, verifying the identity of the party based on documents, data or information obtained from reliable and credible sources." What does this mean? Whenever a client comes to some lawyer's office, his lawyer takes his ID and calls someone at the police station to check his file? That's really amazing. He says: "he regularly monitors business and checks the compliance of the party's activities with the nature of the business relationship and the usual size and type of business of the party". As I said in my first presentation today, this is one law from several sets of laws that you've passed over the past six months, where you want to put everything and everyone under certain control. With this law you want to put all legal and physical persons under control. This is an excuse to control the last yellow bank running between some people in some business. Second, another absurd. How do you plan to implement this law in the entire territory of the Serbian state? How do you plan to implement it with the help or cooperation of foreign or world organizations? Just one part of Serbia's territory is controlled by world organisations: the UN, Eulex, I don't know what's not there, and just for those 10 years, as for the previous 20 years, there is a booming drug trafficking, there are dozens of laboratories, there is a major distribution centre towards Europe. Europol's data from a few years ago say this: Kosovo, Albania, Western Macedonia, each moment is up to seven billion euros of narcotics ready to go to the European market. In Albania, 80% of farmland was planted with marijuana in 2002. Who do you think is using it? Do you think it wasn't sold somewhere? Where did he end up with that money? How are the ANA, KLA, UCK and Kosovo's security forces financed? It was these international forces today or these few years ago that led drug dealers put them in a position to become very serious political factors on KIM. How do you plan to implement this law with such international world organizations? You have some territories, some places, some cities and in Serbia itself where you have no chance of implementing this law. Go to Velika Trnovac, the 2004 data is that there are up to a billion euros in Veliko Trnovac that are ready for the European market. Simply, these international organisations protect this criminal drug-mafia state in every way possible. Those poor people who aren't in controlled money flows and narcotics get arrested. Currently, 23,000 Albanians from Kosovo live in European prisons or European countries' prisons. Multiply it by a minimum of four, five people, as a criminal group on average, you'll get a very serious number. Some were insubordination, so they ended up there, but most of them who are obedient and who work very seriously, are in Kosovo, are located across the EU and finance a drug-state. One very serious indicator of the operations of these international organisations is that exactly where NATO is located, where the United States military is located, there is either the production of narcotics or the processing and distribution centre for further. In Afghanistan, they have been in place for several years, reducing the agricultural area on which they plant a maximum of opium, by one quarter, but the production of macaque has increased by 40 times. What do you think – where most of these products go from Afghanistan to the EU. You think these organizations are going to enforce this law with you? This is more than funny. Absurd for absurdity, laws are passed and laws remain a dead letter on paper. We had an absurd today on the Administrative Committee where the ruling majority did not want to respect the resignations that we made, asking for some special representatives. It's about having to protect some of your operations, so if one of them came and said, "I'm resigning," you'd tell him, well, we don't accept, you have to sit there. Get out of this darkness a little bit of this maze and go some serious way, because this is where you're leading us really doesn't lead anything. This is amazing. The country will not be called Serbia in the future, it will be called 'absurdistan'. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14628	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14629	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the bill on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism that is under discussion today, I must repeat once again, in a fairly illogical order, however much less or more bad, the greatest temptation will have, like all previous legislative proposals, in practical application, if for that, I hope it is not already late. In fact, the phenomenon of money laundering is present all over the world, of course, there is no exception to Serbia either. Some relevant estimates suggest that today are washed from 2% to 5% of the world's total social product, or translated into figures, from 590 billion to even 1.5 billion dollars a year. In Serbia, the situation is similar. That percentage is about 5%. What is certainly imposed is the logical thinking that, above all, the mafia privatisation of enterprises in the largest extent influenced this kind of parameter, but money laundering was also made possible through already well-known phantom companies, i.e. using fictitious legal entities. In Serbia, it is one of the modes and traffic of immovableity which is an undisputed activity and is suitable for money acquired in an illegal manner to be placed in legal financial flows. This one should be mentioned so-called. Simulated transactions when, for example, contracts to manufacture textiles for export, and instead of re-compromisations that were to be obtained abroad, are actually imports of original goods that are the final product and then sold here. Or simulate production in the most primitive conditions, create some sort of manifesto and seemingly produce goods, and actually push through such jobs large cash. Also, legalisation of suspicious capital through the construction of various facilities is evident, given that cash appears in quite a number. The point of money laundering is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that illegally earned money is translated into legal property or legal work. Other ways are used through famous offshore companies, a real tax paradise, which clouds the origin of money and avoids paying taxes. Such transactions, of course, do not enter the country's payment turnover and it is very difficult to see their flow. Examples from the recent past are shiny and I will only remind myself of that famous duo Janjušević – Kolesar. On this occasion, I would like to point out in particular that this bill provides for banks to play an active role in this story. I am sorry that Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not attend this session today, I think this is the topic in which she would certainly be the most competent. Unfortunately, thanks to economic policy and the very doing of the current regime, this banking system in Serbia, if it still exists, faces risks, such as credit risk, fraud risk, the risk of endangering the reputation, which causes both serious legal and financial difficulties. The need to launder money, i.e. income from criminal activities through the financial system, is vital to success and criminal activity. The increased integration of global financial systems and the removal of barriers to the free movement of capital, in the end, allowed the money to be made more easily washed through criminal means and made it difficult to monitor such activities. There's simply no such thing as a unique way to launder money. Of which these revenues are usually in the form of cash that should enter the financial system in some way. Despite the diversity of methods used, the money laundering process is carried out in three stages, accommodation, decomposition, integration, and the most common form is overlapping these steps. What would be a bill like this to prevent, and I'm not sure it's going to work, is actually identifying those points where money laundering activities might be more exposed. First of all, there is a view of the entry of cash, or cash into the financial system, the international flow of money, transfers to the financial system, as well as transfers of the financial system. In the context of this fight against money laundering under the new legislative framework, an interinstitutional system for the prevention and control of money laundering should be established. The formation of an institution for the collection of relevant information that would collect and exchange financial information at domestic and international level, for the purpose of controlling and preventing money laundering, would likely achieve more significant results. It might be good to set up some kind of inter-resor working group that would gather all agencies and institutions involved in curbing money laundering, to regularly test and evaluate their work and discuss adaptation to new challenges. Certainly, since we have already mentioned banks as one of the key parameters of this legal framework, it is necessary to impose some programming harmonisation of the work of banks and other financial institutions and institutions that must be respected in order to ensure that standards for the identification of financial transactions work and allow the monitoring of real account users. The measures to be taken in the fight against terrorist financing are similar to those taken against money laundering. But for this monster, we need to have a concrete strategy, not some kind of, so to speak, an ad hoc variant that has been realized since the 9/11 of 2001, when the United States, world cop number one, declared war on terrorism. In opposing money laundering and terrorist financing, the stock of effective fighting is a strong national, financial and banking and regulatory system and state institutions. Whether you want to admit it or not, the state of Serbia doesn't own it today. For example, last year, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority opened 76 cases. It's a good thing Mrs. Malovic's here. The point is, in the end, all of this needs to be processed. Courts judge whether or not a crime has been committed. Unfortunately, the data shows that there is insufficient number of judicial verdicts in money laundering procedures. Finally, to implement the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is clear that it is necessary to provide certain resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We're definitely in for a rebalancing. We will determine during the year whether Serbia will bypass the recession. A law like this will be passed. The question arises from the beginning – isn't it too late for all of this? Because, as we obviously need international legal aid in certain criminal matters, the basic problem remains in the fact that in one unscrupulous way neither the legal provisions nor the Serbian Constitution are still respected. The best example may be today's session of the Administrative Committee at which the rule of law has been replaced by the rule of law, in this case, the DS. So as long as these anomalies happen, Serbia won't, without a basis for adoption so-called. the pro-European laws to be even a pedal closer to your so-loved EU. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14630	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. There's 26 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, in this regular meeting of the National Assembly, we should consider three legislative projects concerning the accelerated process of visa liberalisation and six legislative projects on the validation, or ratification of conventions in this area. By the government's decision, one of the laws has been withdrawn from the procedure. No matter what we say and promise, that we want to speed up liberalisation, come to the white Schengen list, we show these moves that it's not our primary task. We have heard in this congregation home a lot of criticism about the opposition, which is like blocking, slowing down, etc., and here it is clear that you do not want to speed up the process. We can support this with several data, one of them is that as early as 2004, the government adopted and adopted an Action Plan on harmonising the relationship of the legal system with the EU legal system, which determines the dynamics, deadlines, projects, matter that needs to be harmonised. One or more laws and legal projects in this area are also these laws provided for today's debate, including the law on the prohibition of discrimination. We've been aware for five years that this law and these laws must be passed, but we haven't done anything to adopt it and remove it from the agenda. Under the legal nomenclature of the European Union, it is not enough to pass laws only, we must adopt sublaws, various administrative regulations, technical and technologically imported systems, and only then do we meet the conditions. One commission finished the job the other day, and I was informed that, by order of the European Commission, it was prohibited to provide information on what it found. Imagine what she's found? If we have not met the legal issues, we are neither sublegal nor technical or technological and all others that are scheduled on the map of the road and in the map of the road for EU accession. It is an interesting explanation of why one of the laws we are discussing is the law on international legal aid in criminal matters, it is adopted in order to confirm the European Convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, then the European Convention on Extradition, the United Nations Conventions, etc., because the Republic of Serbia has assumed the obligation to implement those documents in its legal system. Here we have received four reasons why it is necessary to enter into the adoption of this law, and in the explanation of the minister of justice, he said that it is harmonisation of the rules with EU rules, then liberalisation of the visa regime, the installation of the EU and the UN conventions that have been adopted and which will be passed in a few days, these six conventions we are talking about, and harmonisation of the legal rules of the Republic of Serbia. So, four reasons and in the light of the law itself, we see only one reason that's listed here, which says that the Justice Department didn't participate in the making of this law, that someone else was doing it and the other didn't coordinate work with the Justice Department. It speaks of the absence of seriousness in the work, because if there are already reasons, they are justified in any case and we must accept everything that has been said by the minister of justice, but it has not been introduced into these reasons for passing the law. When we talk about the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters – whether to go into the adoption of a special law or one of the legal options was to install it into the Code of Criminal Procedure, as was present and now, or to bring a unique Lex specialis law on international legal aid, which will cover all legal assistance in the mutual correspondence of modern states that cover both criminal matters, and administrative matters, and social policy, and telecommunications policy and traffic policy, etc. From the point of view of the SRS, you have chosen the worst solution because now that you have introduced the practice of particularly regulating this area, then you have to pass a special law on international legal aid in social policy, it is very important, because of social security, from all aspects of which social policy and social security arises, in addition, you have to pass a legal regulation, or law on international legal co-operation in foreign affairs, in internal affairs, etc. And we're going to get a bunch of legal projects that are more or less repeated. This is the best legal-technical solution. Given the times, I will ask here the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska in exile, on behalf of many associations of Krajisnik, to assist refugee associations, refugees, in terms of the achievement of individual and collective rights which Serbs, in particular Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, have and cannot achieve. That's one thing. This applies to pensions, it applies to disabled persons, it refers to the return of immovable things, houses, apartments, we know that more than 50,000 dwellings in social property and no apartment has been returned, as well as numerous other property, social and other rights. In addition, you know for a fact that Croats have filed more than 70,000 charges against Serbs during the 1991-1995 war. In 1999, the Law on Amnesty was passed, and all those who did not commit more serious crimes were amnesty. However, in the legal practice of the Republic of Croatia, what they forgave, amnesty does not mean anything because they instead of qualifications on these charges of large-scale Serbian aggression or armed rebellion now say – war crimes against the civilian population or other legal qualifications and arrests, bring in etc. and condemn. I will take this opportunity to hand over, given that it is in the process of preparing the suit against Croatia, to hand over one material that has worked for the "Retirement Association" of Croatia with President Jovan Kablar, that is one material on 20 pages, relating to acquired rights or pensions and all elements related to the inability to achieve pensions and the inability to achieve the rights that Serbs have acquired in Croatia by 1991, and that right has been denied from 1991 until 1998, have no opportunity to achieve it, here is this material, so look at you, look at the Serbs and allow them to obtain the right they have achieved according to legal projects and achievements. I am handing over the material that worked "The Association for Refugees and Exiled From Croatia", her President Mile Dakic, then "The Association of Nikola Tesla" and President Dusan Kundak, then "The Association of Citizens Returns of Persecuted Krajisnik", signed by Professor Dr Dusan Banjac, then "The Association of Banished Serbs from Republika Srpska, Republic of Croatia" and President Branko Lubovac. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14632	Thank you. National MP Mr. Ivan Andric. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14633	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like to use these three minutes to inform the Assembly that an incredible thing has happened, and I will ask the present ministers to confirm it. So at its session today, the government decided to return the bill against discrimination in the same text to the Assembly. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that the pressure has brought fruit and yet there are people out there who think in a normal way and understand the importance of it. On the other hand, it's amazing how insecure it is for people who have made that decision. I don't mean you, I believe it's a phone session, but the idea of dealing with a law that's in the process, a law that's so important, then, to go through all of this, first yesterday, then today, so that no one knows why this law is withdrawn from the procedure. Of course, we will never know the reasons why it was returned to the procedure, whose responsibility, who did it, with which it was intended, why all the laws needed to liberalise the visa regime were adopted at a session at the end of the week, and which would allow Serbia, or the Serbian Parliament, to adopt all the necessary laws by the end of the week, so that those negotiating on our behalf could ask us to put ourselves on the white Schengen list. I apologize for taking the time, but I had to be under the impression of this thing, which I really think is amazing and that from October 5th to today, it's certainly not happened, and if it's previously, I can't remember, in any case, it remains that bitter taste, and we're going to lose more time. I hope that law comes on the agenda as soon as possible, given that it is not possible at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14634	National MP, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, since Mrs. Pop-Lazic is not here. You have 15 minutes left, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is a trend, when it comes to law-making in the criminal justice area over the last few years, is that our criminal legislation is being broken, disintegrated. Today we have a whole series of laws that regulate criminal matter. You probably know, Madam Minister, the principle that applies in all well-organised countries to ensure that criminal legislation is as codified as possible, that it should be reduced to a minimum of some rules that will be comprehensive, fundamental and fully regulated by criminal law, that this principle has been valid in the Republic of Serbia for many years, or in the former Socialist Yugoslavia. So there were two basic criminal laws: a criminal law that regulated the material part of criminal law and there was a procedural part that was contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the last few years, our criminal legislation has been completely broken. The passing of this law continues this trend of sharing our criminal legislation and its disintegration and now criminal matter in the Republic of Serbia will be arranged with a whole series of laws. There will be, as so far, a Criminal Code, there will be a Code of Criminal Procedure, and yet you will have one very broad, mutually inconsistencies, so on. Subsidious criminal legislation. I doubt that, Madam Minister, and you know what criminal laws exist in the Republic of Serbia and what their contents are. Now we're going to get, these days, you're going to vote it, the law on the fight against money laundering, against terrorism. We already have the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law of Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. These days we will also receive a draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. This, Mrs. Malovic, is a typical criminal trial matter and has so far been regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I couldn't figure out why you in the Code of Criminal Procedure were pulling out a piece of him and turning him into a special and independent law. You tried to explain that at the beginning of the reasoning of the bill. Here's what you said - the Code of Criminal Procedure has partly regulated the matter of international legal aid in criminal matters, but the following issues have emerged in the application of this law: the role of the Ministry of Justice in the process of handing over accused and convicted persons, the jurisdiction and authority of domestic judicial authorities in providing international legal aid, the way in which they communicate with foreign authorities in this process, and the costs of the international legal aid procedure. Just to remind you, Mrs Malovic, the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted in 2001 and was later changed several times and completed in 2001, 2004, 2005 and 2007. What is the problem with you, as Government, not only these but all Dosovian governments in various aggregate states, since 2001, is the following – whenever you pass one law, and this is the case with this law, you announce it as a miracle unseen, there is no such thing anywhere in Europe, anywhere in the world, excellent law, precise, comprehensive, there are no gaps, conditions for our approach to the EU. When that law starts to apply in practice, let's face something that's quite the opposite of what you said. You say yourself, remember the atmosphere in which the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed, in 2001 – euphoria, in 2000 DOS assumed power, we enter Europe in 2004, we bring reform regulations, compliance with European standards, etc. It was 2001. You are now telling us, at the beginning of 2009, – matter is partially regulated, issues have arisen, from the role of the justice ministry to the cost of the international legal aid procedure. You didn't tell us in 2001 that the code was flawed and that there would be problems in application. Every law you propose is excellent, there's no such thing in the world. It doesn't pass a year or two, a whole series of problems. Mrs. Malovic, in 2001, you are, I don't mean personally, don't be offended, but this furniture that's been in power since 2000, in 2001 you passed the Code of Criminal Procedure, you changed it already in 2001. So in the year in which you brought this "miracle-unseen" code, you had already changed it because it was inadequate, so you changed it in 2004, then in 2005 twice, then in 2007. Every time you've passed the basic code, that is, the amendments and the additions, you've made a pompous announcement, that it's something that no one in the world has, great law, let's vote it out and join the EU. Someone has to explain, Mrs. Malovic, why various governments have been cheating on Serbian citizens since 2000 that the laws they provide are excellent, when they are not like that, and you admit it yourself. But you say that after a certain amount of time has passed. You don't say when you pass the code, the code isn't good. That's what the opposition says, that's what the SRS says. You and this code claim to be perfect. What if by the end of 2009, it's confirmed that it's not like that, that we're going to have to change this code too? Who's going to be responsible for the changes in our laws in the year they're passed, which doesn't even go two or three years and the code changes five times? Will someone bear responsibility for proposing bad laws to the congregation and for adopting bad laws? That's the first question. Second question, if the Code of Criminal Procedure is not good, as you say, in this part, why did you not approach the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Why are you tearing up our criminal legislation? Now you, Mrs Malovic, will come to the next situation – the criminal law in our country is completely broken. I doubt that as a minister, in all respect of your expertise, you would know which criminal laws exist in the Republic of Serbia. We all know there's a Criminal Code, there's a Code of Criminal Procedure. When we come to the field of subsidiary criminal law, a man has to sit down, check out the law packages, and then see what happens, what doesn't apply, and what laws exist. That's not good. Our laws, Mrs. Malovic, are inconsistencies. Our laws are impractical. You'll also have a problem with the application of this law. The courts will have a problem. Why? One says in Criminal Law, one says in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the other says in the law, the third says in the law on the prevention of money rights, the fifth says in the law on the prevention of terrorism, the tenth says here. You will have a problem with the application of mutually unconformed laws, instead of having two basic criminal laws, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and then making it clear what and how the matter is arranged. You've completely broken it. You have dozens of criminal laws, mutually inconsistencies, and you will need to change this law very quickly. Furthermore, there is a question here why this law should be passed by emergency procedure? Whenever the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of these so-called pro-European laws, it proposes that they be adopted according to an urgent procedure and any proposal for the so-called European law follows the same reasoning. It is also said here: "It is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure, in order to avoid harmful consequences and create all the necessary conditions for the work of the state authorities in the process of providing international legal assistance in criminal matters," and then that famous sentence which has the character of the political mantra, 'and thus meet the necessary conditions in the process of joining the European Union'. Mrs. Malovic, your government is not consistent. It is almost identical explanation, contained in the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. The end of the world will be if that law is not passed. Olli Rehn insists on passing the law, Javier Solana, NATO Pact, the Council of Europe, all living Europeans. If no law on the ban on discrimination is passed, the world is going down, so you wrote it in an explanation. Suddenly today you magically withdraw this bill from the congregation procedure. So it's not so urgent, it's not such a necessary condition for joining the EU. Now we hear from your LDP colleagues that you're returning it to congregation procedure in unaltered form. You're playing with the National Assembly. Something is urgent, something is not urgent, something is European, something is not European, etc. All of what you say in the Reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure is extremely casual, because we see from practice that it is not so urgent and that it is not very important for Serbia to enter the EU, because that is not how the laws would be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. Mrs. Malovic, let me also inform you, as minister of justice, of a phenomenon that is very dangerous. Today, Mrs. Malovic, the Administrative Board has become a quasi-sud. So far, it has been a practice for the Administrative Board to conclude that the resignations of Members of Parliament have been submitted and, under the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments, to establish the termination of the mandate and to enable one political party to replace the MP to whom he has suspended his mandate, with another MP. Ms. Malovic, I apologize for interrupting your chat with the ruling coalition MPs, but it is an important matter. Today, Madam Ministers and gentlemen of the European Democratic bloc, the Administrative Committee has been transformed into some kind of political tribunal. Now it's not enough to have a resignation, it's not enough that the man the resignation is referring to says - people, that's my signature. No, now it is necessary to bring to the meeting of the Administrative Committee a National MP who resigned and who says - it is my signature, although yesterday they claimed that the signatures were forged. It is necessary to establish itself as in the court of the two sides, a party that has resigned and a party that allegedly considers that there is a problem. It is necessary to determine the circumstances under which the resignations were signed, who attended the signing of the resignations, what kind of tie was the one that had signed the resignation, and what kind of shoes the resignations were signed in, and then, when we need the court experts, we need archaeologists, we need experts for the pyramids in the lower Nile, we need experts for the Vincan culture, when, at the moment the resignation was signed, when the ink was dried on that resignation, and then the DS representative in the Administrative Committee says, we need it, Mrs Malovic, I didn't know it until Mr. Bosco Ristic at the session of the Administrative Committee explained it, it's not enough that you have a resignation, it's not enough for the MP to say it's my signature – what it takes, therefore, that the authorized face of one party has the special power to hand over the resignations in a special case! Today, we have asked the ruling coalition in the Administrative Committee to explain to us where it says in the Law on the Selection of MPs that there should be some special power of attorney and how it is possible, Madam Minister, to violate Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says it is forbidden to discriminate against people, including political confidence. How is it that when the Democratic Party resigns for its MPs, no experts, no archaeologists, no experts are required to know what. No, it's enough to resign. That's what happens, and the job ends in five minutes. Today's session of the Administrative Board, Mrs Malovic, began at 12:00 hours, was closed after two hours of debate, although you had a statement from one of the MPs who resigned – yes, people, it's my signature. Yesterday they say it's not their signature. Today they say it is our signature. Then you have a statement from one part of this new party, this part that is in charge of weddings and dancing, in that party you have those who are in charge of weddings and dances and those who are in charge of funerals, the one who is in charge of weddings said - the signatures are either forged or they're from 2000. Today, their MPs, from their party for weddings and funerals, say they are my signature, but not in 2000, but in 2004. Imagine how long that's been going on since then, instead of the Governing Board doing what it's been doing so far. He took resignations, his own signatures, the date on his resignations, nothing is disputed. (President: Time. ) I end up, I apologize, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, I know that you are tolerated, in ten seconds, instead of doing so, the Administrative Board is turning into a tribunal, so concepts such as means of proof, experts, crimes, counterfeits etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14636	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the Prosperity Group Forward, Serbia has 20 minutes, but we are working until 18:00 hours, which means you have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you are still not reacting to the insults of the unmistakable political fascism that a political party here represents to its rivals, something like this pleases you again. Today was the meeting of the Administrative Committee. The SRS parliamentary group removed some resignations from the archives for several SRS MPs, for no more, because they were ancient resignations, and tried to convince members of the Administrative Committee that, as LDP MP Christmas-Bata said, he visited the SRS tonight and brought Tomislav Nikolic's resignation gift. So, there's a lot of us in charge. Since I'm in charge of that other part, the uglier part of the funeral of political rivals, I'm telling you, you probably found out, you have more important jobs, as of today, in the fight for Zemun, temporary measures have been introduced, you've been bad at Zemun, you've stolen a lot in Zemun, you've hired your activists in Zemun, at the expense of Zemun's budget, you've hired your party officials, you've kidnapped your country in Zemun. Everything I've taken, come here with a note and I'm no longer on the political scene, so let your president of the parliamentary group, if he's really kidnapped, come out here and say he's not on the political scene anymore. It's all public here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again let me tell you who are following orders, not my brain and my mind, my mandate is my mandate. You want me to give it to you? Let him stand up from you who deserved to get my mandate, just to see him. You're not here. You know very well how values in politics are determined. So, I am a People's MP, proud of being a People's MP, proud that the Prosperity Group, Serbia from now on, will work less here, and much more on the preparations for the elections that are a question of survival, be it or not, and for us another opportunity to prove to you how right we were and how wrong your path is. I reminded you, I gave you advice, I'm the oldest of you here, you didn't want to listen, you listened to only one voice, it wasn't good, you live outside this world, you do one thing and the other you think, you think completely different and what's happening to you right now happens to you. It's nice that you throw, that you order me to do this or that, except that you don't have any evidence, and this morning I pointed out to you the differences in views in The Hague and the different judgments of Serbs and what you can't mention, that whoever makes the arrangements is slightly more condemned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14638	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14639	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the draft laws on the agenda are in some way some kind of lex specialise in the areas they organize. I can understand what my colleague Martinovic said, in countries with regulated legal systems, is seeking codification, not particularism in the area of law, in general, we are talking about criminal legislation here, but codification. There are several reasons why it has been difficult for Serbia to carry out one criminal codification, as the ultimate goal to pursue in this matter. In just ten years, we've had a transition from one-party to a multiparty system, from dictatorship and authoritarian regime to democracy. We had a second level, the disappearance of the federal state, the Code of Criminal Procedure that was mentioned, was an act passed by the Federal Assembly, meaning an act at the level of the federal state. The SRJ has disappeared, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has fallen apart, despite the fact that the previous government, as the first priority in its coalition agreement, envisioned the preservation and strengthening of Montenegro's state union, when it fell apart, those who advocated it did not find it appropriate to resign. A third level that makes codification difficult is necessary to synchronise and type-approval with EU regulations and legislation. The fourth level, the fourth dimension, has changed the importance of certain safeguards in terms of their priorities. That's why I support these proposals on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I think that these are some things, that I will present to the Minister of Justice, necessary to change the amendments, I think there are even certain provisions that are discriminatory with the position and agreement with the Constitution, but then on that. Anyway, this is the way we have to go. When we arrange all areas for these individual areas, I would say, Lex specialises in the laws and when Serbia truly becomes a modern European and legal state, then what is really necessary, a comprehensive codification of legislation in general, and therefore criminal legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14640	Miss Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member of Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14641	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I saw that you were closely following Mr. Martinovic's discussion, a respected magistrate, SRS MP. However, when you gave the next speaker a word, it was by Article 103. Rules of Procedure to warn him, because he wasn't talking about a subject that was on the agenda at all. Such a Rules of Procedure as it is completely restrictive, we really claim that it is the introduction of dictatorship into the National Assembly and that our right, as the main opposition parties, is to fight to bring out everything that voters ask of us here. But someone can't go out without knowing, or he may know, but he's not interested, but he's looking for the word as a representative of that phantom MP group and he's talking about what he wants, and the truth, because if the gentleman, if that's what he can call it, and I don't think he can, he knew that point one is a united debate, a bill on international legal aid in criminal matters, no idea he doesn't have – what to talk about, he doesn't have a mild connection, because he never did? To know that the second item of the agenda is the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, this for terrorism, you know, it's politically already possible, it's some new fashion, money laundering, and how it's known and accountable in court, and that it's prepared for the bill on confirming the Convention on High-Technological Crime, it can't already, because beyond that game of cards and composing on the computer has not gone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-05-0.u14642	Mr Nikolic mentioned the law, and within the time available he spoke, I will look at the stenogram again, but I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right to Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters; a bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and a proposal for a law on parent books. We will continue work tomorrow, March 6, 2009 at 10:00 p.m. I thank you for your participation in the work. I especially thank Mrs. Malovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Donka Banovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I called on the sittings to attend: Mr Branko Radosevic, Assistant Foreign Minister Vladimir Djeklic, Adviser at the Ministry of Justice, and Ms Minister. I welcome them. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the High Technology Crime (Common Single Search 3 - 9th Points of the Agenda) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint Single Search on Proposals for the Laws of the Agenda under points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, and before the opening of the Common Single Search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 152 of Article 3, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups on these agenda points are MPs, and that is: MP Dejan Mirovic (Srain Group SRS), MP Milisav Petronijevic (Salanica Group SPS-JS), MP Nebojsa Rangelovic (Salanica Group LDP), MP Elvira Kovac (Salanica Group of Minorities) and MP Milica Vojić-Markovic (Salanica Group of DSS-Vojislav Kostunica). According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on High-Technology Crime, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Search, Confiscation and Abuse of Income acquired by crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the Incrimination of the Part of the Rastistic and Xenophobic Nature Done Through Computer Systems, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trade, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Proposal for a Law on Facilitated Procedures for the issue of Visas. Are the representatives of the promoter, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister, above all, the first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic, but he is busy today and will not be with us... So, does Mrs. Malovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
