ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19537	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, a group of 121 MPs submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting on the basis of a decision of the Committee on Culture and Information, held on 26 February 2009, under which the Committee concludes that it is necessary to initiate a procedure for amending and supplementing the provisions of the Law on Broadcasting which regulate the choice of advice and the procedure for proposing candidates, as irregularities in that part of the Law have been observed, and also to organise a meeting with authorised proposings in order to agree on the draft text of the law. Namely, it's about the next one. On the basis of the fact that for the two members of the Broadcasting Agency Council, the mandate has expired and that the Assembly has initiated the procedure under the law to propose new candidates, we have come to the situation that the proposed proposals have authorised the proposings, who had an obligation, under the Law, to agree their proposals and to propose two candidates of all candidates, on the basis of which the Committee proposes the selection of two candidates to the Assembly... It happened that authorised proposings were not able to agree on their proposals, and they requested that the Assembly Committee, or the Assembly, be on the basis of a number of proposals than prescribed by law, elect representatives of the Broadcasting Agency Council. Since the Law on the Broadcasting Agency did not provide for the possibility that in such a situation the Committee would shorten or change the list of authorised proposings, after a long procedure which lasted from February to this day, we have come into the situation that the only solution to this situation is the only way to avoid blocking the work of the Broadcasting Agency Council's work to amend the Broadcasting Act, which is precisely in the part that regulates issues related to the selection of members of the Broadcasting Agency Council. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is found in Article 97(10) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates, provides, inter alia, with a system in the field of public information. These amendments to the Law refer exclusively to the process of proposing members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council and creating the possibility that, if the situations were repeated that authorised proposings were unable to comply with their proposals, the committee responsible may do so. At the same time, this law shortened deadlines in the process of proposing and electing members of the Broadcasting Agency, as it proved that in the event of a sudden termination of the mandate of a member of the Broadcasting Agency Council, the process of proposing and selecting candidates has been taking too long to question the effectiveness and possibility of working of the Radiodifuge Agency Council. As it really is about the changes that need to enable this very important independent institution to work in accordance with the law and there is no problem in selecting its members, I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this bill, because this will really enable the Council of the Broadcasting Agency to always be in full shape and to work in accordance with the law of what its powers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19538	I thank you and I would like to inform you that MP Nenad Prokic will represent the LDP Parliamentary Group at this point in the agenda. Do the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Nenad Prokic. Here you go. (National MPs of the SRS keep their passwords in English all the time: "Biden, you fassist scum, go home. ")
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19539	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I would just like to point out the mistakes in the procedure, because the political party in power did not want the Committee to be a patron and to judge between more than two candidates, and now it does, on a legal basis. So the changes and additions may technically solve this problem, due to inactivity or publicisation of the ruling party, it has arisen, but it will essentially not solve any problems in broadcasting. This continues with one tension between the state and the Assembly, which is scheduled to elect members of the RRA, and the various authorised proposings, which the state itself has given to be authorised by the proposings. So it's an aggressive intrusion and a state interference. I can't help feeling like it's happening because they're not... Or they've forgotten that they have a candidate among these RRA promoters. They forgot they had a candidate and now the whole process is being restarted for having him, because they forgot. I don't see any other reason. Our opinion on the work of independent regulatory bodies is generally negative, precisely because of the state's interference with their work. After moves like this, where is the independence in the work of these bodies? Where's the independence and where's the responsibility? What if they don't propose again the way you imagined? Are we going to repeat the whole procedure or are we going to be cartridges, what we're trying not to be this time? Now, all I'm warning you is that this basic idea of the independence of these regulatory bodies is simply erased in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19540	Thank you. He has Mrs. Hope Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19541	Therefore, there is a difference if the law does not provide and gives no possibility for the Committee to arbitration in the proposals, i.e. that the Committee shortens the list and chooses if the list is not made in accordance with the law. So this law that is now in force leaves no possibility. If the Committee had taken over, if the Assembly had taken over itself that out of several candidates who were not in accordance with the law she chose two candidates, then we would have broken the law. So there's a difference between the fact that we want in a legitimate way to settle this important issue and that if these situations happen again... We hope that it will not happen again and that the authorised proposings in future will, in their interest, propose and bring solutions into line. It's not our intention to interfere with their proposals and us to arbitration with their proposals. Our intention is to respect the law. In the event that the proposal process was unable to comply with the law until the end, the only intention is to create legal opportunities not to block the work of such an important institution at that time. So, it's just that we have had a situation that since August of the month, the process of proposing candidates, when the president of the Assembly sent a letter to all the law-authorized promoters to highlight the mandate of the two members of the RRA Council. Since then, the process has been under way and since then authorised proposings have been unable to agree and fully propose solutions. It has been requested that the Committee pass the law, so by breaking the law, do so for them. We think it's inadmissible and that if we assume that these situations can block work, we need to take care of it legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19542	Thank you. The word is Mr. Shami. Excuse me, Mr. Prokic wanted to say something like a replica, did he? Yeah. ) You have to put the card back on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19543	I don't see what greater democracy is to choose between three candidates, but two, only if that's some reason why the procedure is repeated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19544	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19545	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately, on the law I'll do something later, in order to... Excuse me, could something be done about this noise? The bell. ) So, on the law itself, I'm going to go a little later, but the trouble is that the proposal of this law... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, please be quiet, distract Mr. Shami. Please be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Shami. ) (Bell. ) In order to understand what this story is about, it must be opened elsewhere — why could the congregation committee, who wanted to do its job, not do its job? Why, as the people say, is the problem with who's going to be and who's not going to be a member of this agency? The answer to these questions lies in that other domain, and that is, what has this agency done and what has it done in recent years? About a year and a half ago, in the last assembly of the congregation, I once spoke of it on a committee responsible for this problem. That's when I pointed out a series of work-related problems, or rather, the RRA's unhappiness. Since then, not that anything's been fixed, but we've arrived where we've arrived. What's the problem? At the time, the agency proposed a TV price list, which the government then accepted and which is such that it practically shuts down television. Let me explain what this is about. The annual fee, for example, that one regional television should pay about 200,000 euros. How's that in other countries? It is enough to tell you that this same tax in Bosnia is about 18,000 euros and in Croatia about 20,000 euros. So we have ten times as many. I don't have to convince you, there's more problems here right now, I'm going to make them think that whoever wants to do the right thing, who doesn't have any other donations that price, that money can't make money. As a result, Serbia currently faces more than 35 and perhaps all 50 TVs, mostly regional ones. As a result, practically only some state television can survive in our space. When I say "let the state television" I mean, first of all, the televisions that our country's funding. Of these more famous it is, of course, a public service, but, on the other hand, there is Studio B, which, contrary to any law, is not yet privatized. The privatisation of numerous regional televisions has also not been carried out, although it has been prescribed by law. That's not all. The Republic Broadcasting Agency has done nothing to take care of the situation on the cable. The coverage of some televisions that aren't even registered in our cable is very high. To make things worse, cable TV has no competition and practically one operator (which, by the way, Soros) commands a complete cable in the country of Serbia. That's not all. Television and foreign programs translated into Serbian that are on cable take a large part of the cookies from the commercials. State television, our public service, against all good customs across Europe, also has no limit on how much advertising can have, and it is customary that state television, which citizens pay for their extras, does not have a large number of commercials. No one thinks to limit them. When you add it all up and take it away, you come to what I said – I can only get some state television. Of course, there is also television owned abroad, as euphemistically said, majority capital is foreign, but it is clear that some foreign interests are behind them. It is perfectly natural for them to defend the interests of the country from which the capital comes, not the interests of the Serbian state. At the same time, RRA employs over 70 people. Where does he spend all this money? I'll tell you, for example, a yearly salary for renting 1,100 square meters of space about 400,000 euros; to whom and how, I'm not going to open that question right now. So it is clear that if there is, I would agree with Mr Prokic, some regulatory body that does not do its job, but does it contrary to the interests of the country of Serbia, it is the RRA. That's why, gentlemen, the problem is who will be inside and who won't be inside. That's why different people got up, so they can't agree, they're big interests. Unfortunately, personal interests or group interests, not the interests of the Serbian state. That's why there was a problem, Mrs. Kolundjia. As far as this law is concerned, I don't think it's a good law. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the motion that it miscounts the views of Article 24 of the existing law and that it must... Check it out, it's not my place to correct you, but obviously you counted for one item in Article 24; it's usually a member of your first law. I'm just going to comment on one item. In the first position of Article 1. The law deletes the word "obligation". The word "mandatory" refers to the fact that in the existing law there was a provision that there must be more candidates than the number to be elected. Now it's "must" off. Why is he taking off his clothes? So instead of transparency, instead of the Assembly deciding... I also, Mr. Prokicu, see no logic that it is greater democracy if I choose one from one, but if I choose one from 15. What kind of democracy is that? What, we're illiterate to assess which candidate is good, and who's less good, or bad? I have to say that only one word in a certain way completely invalidates the logic of the existing law. So now some groups behind the scenes are going to agree that some Pera or Mike or Zika will be a member of the RRA, and then, my God, without any problem, the ruling majority, whatever it is... I'm not in favour of the ruling majority voting, but I'm in favour of getting a list of candidates, but obviously there's nothing. During the elections for the National Educational Council, we saw how the whole thing ended – the Committee did not want one word to say about any candidate, he delivered everything to the Assembly, and then the ruling majority agreed to each other and chose the candidates they chose. Some are fortunately good, and some, unfortunately, are not good, but that's another thing now. So, to get back to the beginning, it's high time for the government of the Republic of Serbia to court the Agency, it's high time it stopped doing damage to this country. We, gentlemen, will otherwise, in addition to privileged public service, have, I fear, in a few months only some foreign television and what the owner of a monopoly operator in cable TV intends to release to the citizens of Serbia, and nothing more. The state is more than alarming. Please, whether you belong to the ruling coalition or the opposition, we are seriously considering this. This is one of Serbia's vital interests. I'm calling the press associations... One of them, the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, has been thinking little about problems with the RRA, but I think this time both journalists must deal very seriously with this issue. As a result of all these problems, the closure of regional televisions, the closure of authentic televisions that work in certain places, the result is the terrible unprofessionalness of journalists themselves who are clearly fully conditioned by their bosses, starting with our public service, to some other televisions whose bosses do not live in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19546	Thank you. Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19547	I would like to say at the very beginning that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, as one of the signatories and promoters of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting, will support this proposal, because above all we consider this to be the only way to overcome the current situation when it comes to the composition of the Broadcasting Agency. As has already been said, when it comes to two members of the Council, we find ourselves in a situation that their term of office expired on 17 February 2009. Prior to the end of the term of office, proceedings under the law were carried out, but the situation took place that authorised proposings had not acted in accordance with Article 24(7). The law on broadcasting, and the competent committee of the Assembly under the applicable law, does not have the right to propose a list of candidates independently of the list of candidates submitted pursuant to Article 24(1). The law on broadcasting. This is very precise in the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting. Therefore, the adoption of these amendments and additions give certain rights to the competent committee of the Assembly to submit a proposal for a list on the basis of proposals already submitted and that is the essence of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting. So, explanations, explanations and reasons that can be defined as necessary in order to overcome the situation in which we are currently in place when it comes to the Broadcasting Agency Council. They are acceptable, both as a driver and as one of the legislators and signatories of the SPS-JS initiative, will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. In the follow-up to today's presentation on this agenda, I would like to say that the application of the Law on Broadcasting has already shown some good and some bad side of the Law. The good side of the law is that its application puts a considerable number of order into the chaos that reigned on the air. The number of electronic media is halved. A large number of wild radios and TV stations are legalized. Now there are no more radios or television stations that are not registered and that don't pay rent for the frequency. This has also affected the regulation of the advertising market and the introduction of order in that part. The number of media abuses is significantly reduced, which is extremely positive. However, this law has its shortcomings in several segments. First of all, two organizations, Sokoya and OFFS, according to which all electronic broadcasters have a obligation to pay so-called. The taxi and which are introduced by this law as mandatory for all broadcasters, their relationship and their way of working, in our opinion, do not deserve this status. It must be more precise to determine their role. The money they earn from a minority, one monopoly position isn't small. The very large burdens of these organizations and television and radio stations, especially local character, are very difficult to pay. There is no need to spend words on an analysis of the situation in which electronic media is located, especially electronic media of local character. A very difficult financial situation, a poor position of media employees, gives us the right to ask that these two organisations be put under control. So the question is, where is this money being poured out, who and why? The control of that money must be much more rigid and much stricter. Their relationship with other users is also not adequate, it is about catering facilities, shops and who has not yet been under attack. Of course, this often causes a completely justified citizen revolt. The important segment that needs to be changed is the control of the emitter's operation. The instructions RRA gives to emitters and which are one way of directing media work often remain a dead letter on paper, and it simply has to change. I believe that criminal policy must be sharpened based on this. A very important segment is monitoring the work of the emitter when it comes to the programming scheme. It has been a long time since the entry into force of this law, so I believe that the benefits and consequences of its application can be considered objectively. Media imbalance per geographical unit is observed. I believe that one important factor has been ignored in the allocation of frequencies for one area, which is the financial potential of that area. Especially for television. This could now be corrected in a certain way. The privatisation of media owned by local self-government has not been completed. A number of local media are now in the sky or on earth – they expect privatisation, living in the budgets of municipalities or cities and their status is not resolved. And this question has to be taken by a certain attitude. I think the law must explain in a certain way the involvement of local self-government in the financing of private media. It is not clear in which and what conditions local self-government can finance private media. For this reason, there is an abuse and thus the privatisation effect that is to be achieved is annulled. Because local self-government, along with the fact that some media can finance, and some don't have to, and without clear and precise criteria, those that are financially helpful in a certain way can be kept under control. One of the segments in which shortcomings were observed is, as I said at the very beginning of the presentation, the choice of members of the RRA, which is removed by the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting. That is why we support this proposal and it must not be stopped, but this law must continue to be perfected by new proposals. In this way we will certainly contribute to better functioning and work in this and what a significant area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19548	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19549	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I remember well when I was ordered by the EU as Minister of Telecommunications to form an agency as an independent regulatory body that will fully control media space. The conditions were as follows: in this agency cannot be people who are party-oriented and have given certain criteria that agencies and agency members must meet. We all looked forward to it, counting on the chaos that ruled in Serbia's media space. However, by creating the Agency, as well as today's changes, we have turned the Agency into a full party agency, so that the party that exercises power is fully controlled by the Agency; all members of the Agency who oppose party decisions will be slowly replaced, removed and party people brought in. The idea created is completely depraved, destroyed and currently in Serbia we have general chaos in the media. I remember perfectly when the Agency was ordered by the then government to shut down BK TV because Bogoljub Karic founded a political party. Now many leaders of political parties have television, not regional, not municipal, but national. They got on the satellite, they're in the media room, they're doing whatever they want. Of course, the stations registered to members of their families, friends, etc. Many parties have entered electronic media and have caused general chaos in electronic media. No one's opposed that. The agency's quiet. To make the accident bigger, there you have left one unfortunate bishop, who, behold, today intercedes to come to this visit in the Great Decians. Imagine the bishop who got into all these waters and gave befel for all this, all of this is signed, and all the politicians responsible for the Agency say – you know, it's not in our power. I believe that all of this should be returned to parliament, criteria should be established for how to create an agency, to redecorate everything that has been done so far and should be chosen by people who will really be impartial, impartial and who will do this job properly. No more local media, no more regional media, all the media became national media. Why? They got on the satellite. Now I would ask a very important question: who introduced cable television, who was chairman of the Telecom Management Board when the largest Serbian resource in terms of telecommunications was given to international gangsters, people of suspicious origin, to enter our media using the installations and sewerage that was set up by Telekom? They entered every home, entered both with the Internet and with cable television, so the largest Serbian resource in telecommunications was given for free. As much as my memory serves, I remember that the chairman of the committee that was then signed by the current President of the Republic. Who allowed Sorosha, all the others, to enter all our homes, into all our institutions, with the possibility of listening, to fully develop the system of their telecommunications, to God, with cable television? They didn't settle for cable television. They completely mastered telecommunications, and our Telekom financed it all. They got all this for free, using state resources. I have another very important question – why are we now paying a subscription to RTS when in all cities the lords of cable TV? If you don't pay cable TV, they shut you down, you can't even watch RTS, which citizens pay neatly. Therefore, I will make sure that New Serbia initiates a broad signature collection action to remove this obligation to pay RTS, and that RTS and the state and government are being tried with cable TV owners. Let them regulate it in their own way. How is it possible that cable TV collects large funds and has not invested anything? I repeat, she entered our system completely free of charge, with the silent approval of our politicians. So now they use these media as much as they want and give a warrant to cable TVs that our local and regional televisions will put on the satellite. Now you've got TV, they've all got satellites. Ten thousand euros you pay a monthly fee and you can use the satellite as much as you want. Thus, the creation of the Agency created such a media chaos that nothing is known – neither who is on the satellite, nor who uses any frequency, nor who is the local medium, who is regional, who is national. You have as many national TVs as you want. All the media houses that had money went from local and regional level to satellite, they moved to Belgrade, and here they have their studies, and now we don't even know what's going to happen. I would ask you to start an action to change all of this and start from scratch to create an agency, which will put this total media chaos in order, put out all this stuff that doesn't have a license, there's no approval. I remember perfectly well, then as minister, I was ordered by the government to have inspectors appear and turn off the televisions of those who are party-defined and run political parties because they can't have an electronic medium. I remember perfectly well that everyone who went from regional and municipal level to satellite was shut down. Therefore, those on the satellite with national media could take over part of the programme if they were interested, not in this way – pay and slaughter, as our people say. And, to launch a broad action in Serbia... Comićka, Vice President, don't always get upset. You may mind my discussion, but do me the courtesy and listen until I finish my discussion. I repeat, I'm launching an initiative to cancel the RTS subscription, because RTS has no authority whatsoever, it has cable TV above it. If you don't pay cable TV, they totally shut you down. So you can't watch the RTS program unless you're paying for a neat cable TV. Who's the boss in our media? The cable TV, which came from outside, which has outside dads, and they set the criteria for what they're going to put on a satellite, who they won't, who they're going to include in a programme of certain cities, who they won't. It's simple, they master. Our agency only serves as a party organization, a party firm to cover all of this, so that, of course, everything is regular and in accordance with the law. So I ask you not to accept these small supplements, but to change all this from the root and to bring order to the Serbian media. I repeat, the largest Serbian resource should be used and order should be introduced into telecommunications, an investigation by this parliament and the resolution ministry on who issued the order to cable television, as well as what contracts, to enter into all of Telekom Srbija, to enter every home, into every Serbian institution. That is why we should not accept this, but rather settle it the way Serbia deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19550	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have lost equality and reality... Some people here laugh like crazy at flour. We lost our attitude towards state media after October 5th when Serbia and frogs began to weave. The same MPs who are hypocritically proposing amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting voted in favour of a law that was passed in due time and that has deprived the National Assembly of the right to control RTS, transferred that right to the Broadcasting Agency, whose members are always elected by the ruling majority. I listened to this morning and members of the former ruling majority regret the media space in Serbia, and they created it themselves in these nine years, along with those currently in power. You've done a lot of bad things for these nine years with a public service, a broadcasting agency, cable TV, regional and local TV licenses, and now we're where we are. First of all, you have a lot of politicians who have their own TV. Then you have a lot of television owners who have more frequencies, under this name or that name. Serbia is such a small country that it knows everything. National MP Dragan Markovic Palma sells his television to whoever is in power: when it is needed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, then the TV is fully part of the Democratic Party of Serbia campaign; when it is needed by the Democratic Party, it is in the role of the Democratic Party's campaign. You don't want to fight any law enforcement at all, because you need that TV. You need someone who can bring you voices at that hour by repetitively repeating the contributions in which you are glorified 24 hours a day. And I'm surprised you, too, Madam President of the Assembly, haven't been to the Zoo in Jagodina. That would have been spinning on TV for at least 15 days. It's something that Serbian citizens see and cannot forgive. Don't try to convince us that everything is regulated in Serbia, if there is such a programme. I'd ask you to shut the gentlemen up in your shirts, because this looks like behavior 15 or 20 days ago. I don't throw anyone in this room. Please don't let anyone throw it at me. And whoever loses has the right to be angry. Let them go out, let them smoke and get angry. It really doesn't make sense for me to experience again what I experienced months ago, and all thanks to you, Madam President, because you're trying not to hear me and you don't see what's going on in the assembly. In a nice room like this, which reminds us of past times, there's no room for this kind of behavior. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, please let us take care of the dignity of this house. Please don't throw away, and, Mr. Nikolic, I ask that the comments be appropriated to the dignity of this house. It might be best if I don't comment at all. That would suit you the most, then you wouldn't have to react. (President: Please, your comments occasionally scrambling the reputation of this home. You're turning the subject around, but it doesn't matter. You have the so-called so-called. Public service, once European Serbia, sometimes doesn't write that. When you remember that we should try to introduce ourselves as European Serbia, then it writes on the body of our television, which is very perfiduously favoured by the ruling majority parties, where there is still news exclusively about the government and the president's activities, and the parties' activities in the opposition are monitored in a slow and often with the desire to show what is worst in these parties' activities. I'm not saying that we are not wrong in the opposition, but our mistakes don't cost too much to Serbia, while the mistakes of those in power, which you don't talk about at the public media service, which we all finance, cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia tremendously. It all started when the Government of the Republic of Serbia lost control of the media public space, when it represented Serbia lost that control; a famous Soroshe cable television appeared, without any law and no control, and with two or three good semi-science or scientific programs attracted viewers (and children) and programs that do not correspond at all to the spirit, or morals, or values of our people, and especially do not need our children. Cable TV has entered every house, they don't need any money for it, they don't pay any frequencies, they use our state, national resources, PTT installations. What we've been building for 50 years in Serbia today has been possessed by Soros, that he's salting our minds, and that you don't have any influence on it. It is a media mastodont who will swallow Serbia because no one interferes with what cable TV is doing. You're pushing us to amend two members of the Broadcasting Law, not regulate an entire unregulated space. There's everything in that media space of ours. You cannot drive a car through Vojvodina without hearing Croatian, Hungarian radio stations, you cannot cross the highway to Batocina without hearing Romanian radio stations. In the vicinity of Kragujevac is heard Radio Vukovar. I'm sorry, how he's going to be a elected member of the Broadcasting Agency Council doesn't matter at all, all that matters is how you defend our media space. Why didn't you ever raise your voice against the decibels that the countries in the surrounding areas are splintering all over Serbia and can you give me proof that we can do the same on the territory of their countries? When I hear that you have received some conditions to comply with EU legislation, then I ask why don't you tell that European Union that others in our environment should follow the same rules and that every country keeps its own media space? You don't care about that at all. You wonder what's going on in Vojvodina. And that happens – constant propaganda through the media, especially Croatians; it affects, you know that it affects both children and older people and that our citizens' awareness is slowly changing. It is the same in the environments where the Hungarian animal is mainly – all the media in Hungary are available to them on our media space, not on the internet, not on cable television, in our era, which the state has to control strictly, just like its border. When someone smuggles jeans, drinks, cigarettes, or drugs, if you catch him, they're severely punished. When you're being smuggled in radio and television, you don't make any noise about it, because these are our neighbors, neighbors and friends, we need to hear what's going on with them. We don't need to hear it. The whole world does not hear it, but buys a satellite antenna and sees what is done in the neighbor's room, not to watch what is done on your earth’s antenna. There's a question of whether there's even a state. This country exists. If you started that agency, you didn't just start it because it was written in the paper, did you? Whether there should be a transfer in the Assembly or not, did the RRA order a transfer or not, did they fight, whether they drink there or not? You should have chosen people who understand this media space very widely and everything that is done in it. You kept your mouth shut when Kariæ was closed to BK TV. A lot of people couldn't do anything. Today, after all these years, he gets his license back, in court proves he was right. What do you care? That's the Bogoljub Karic you returned the extra profit to before the time, before the law laid down. What, did you punish him for something later? That was your best associate. Boris Tadic was a member of the board of directors at the "Mobtel", due to the "Mobtel" an international arrest warrant was issued for Karic. Who was protecting the state's interests at the "Mobtel"? Boris Tadic. How did he protect them? By spending all the money, the owner of the "Mobtel" on the run, and Boris Tadic as president of the state. It is so easy to use political influence – you use it to make yourself rich and drive away the one through whom you have become rich so that he will not be able to testify. Bogoljub Karic offered the guarantee to return to the country, to be tried. You refused the guarantee, because it must not return, it must not tell who he was giving all the money to, it must not say why Djelic returned the extra profit before the judicial verdict. That's how you run our media space. Now there were 120 and some MPs to propose to amend the two points of the law. Divination will continue, only we will know how you choose and who do not prevent savagery. You've regulated Serbia a lot now. You hit the heart of the problem. Well done! Why hasn't the government changed those members? Why does it always haunt you, MPs of the ruling majority, to embarrass this National Assembly? Why don't you say, "I'm sorry, give us the whole law to propose." What do we propose here, two or three points, three members? Why should the congregation even propose to regulate it when it is no longer in our jurisdiction? The assembly can no longer control public service, because it is the service of all citizens. Now he's being controlled by all the citizens. As soon as you say that all citizens will control something, it means no one will. Find me a way for the citizens to control it. The problem with the subscription is the one where you won the election in 2000, as well as mobile phone fees, yachts and boats. It was the basis of your struggle to change power in Serbia, because it was the authority that brought such measures and regulations to abuse the people's poverty and watched only to fill the budget. Today it's all regulated by the laws. The same poor thing is re-charging the budget, except it's a legal obligation now. None of you give a shit when you change all the ideologies you performed with when you were in power or in opposition. I'm looking at the former government here, now they're not in the bench, they're always that problem -- while you're in power with one idea, one ideology, as soon as you're in opposition, you're completely against that idea. You're attacking the laws you passed when you were in power. It's that DOS structure. Therefore I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is easy for you, the Hope of Kolundji and a few other MPs to speak, the other people do not know you on the street. They don't like the Assembly, it's in the lowest place of popularity, but none of you are unpopular, because the people don't know you on the street. You don't answer for a word, you don't fight for your ideas, you don't keep your mouth shut and you wait for it to vote. That unpopularity is mostly exposed to us from the opposition. Those of you who are like some bosses... Look at the ministers, they're gone, so they won't be unpopular, because this is where the unpopularity is being achieved. This isn't the place you get out of on the street, so people appreciate you. You convinced Serbian citizens that all evil comes from here; it is not the government's fault because it is a high tax, but because we voted it. Maybe they're right, and that's on your back, gentlemen MPs from the ruling majority. Don't embarrass us from the opposition in the paper, even if we're scratching our noses in the sitting room. Much greater evil is what you do today, every day, day after day, packages of the law. I'll ask if you'll be able to go to the village now that you've forbidden them to bake brandy. I'll ask you. Just spread your hands, I'll ask you what we're gonna do with the sentences. But you have this October 5th frog-snoring manner – everything they bring you translate into Serbian and release it into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why don't you study in Slovenia? For ten years, they did not listen to the European Union, they became a full member for eleven years, they were rich. Today, Triglav Insurance from Kranj buys you all insurance in Serbia, because you have reduced our insurance to zero, and Triglav has become someone who can buy Serbia. It's like a business where banking and insurance go down, so first you shut those jobs down in Serbia and now the media space. You brought those TVs to zero. Now no owner can take the money, sell the TV. What was once the most expensive resource today costs nothing, because Sonja Licht and Soros decide what is seen in Serbia. Privates kill themselves to find an ad, and your TVs only need two or three public enterprises. You've shut down the entire system, you've washed the entire system. All arranged through the laws, no one can hurt you. I hope that when we pass this law, Serbia will move forward. Indeed, if you convince me, when you finally explain, if you convince me that this is decisive for Serbia to move forward, and we will vote for that law. But even after this law, things won't change. So please, Mrs. Kolundjia, if you are so powerful as to gather around you a hundred and twenty-seven, eight MPs, suggest that the Prime Minister propose the disbanding of the National Assembly, that we go out to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, so you beat us freely, if you are so good and so strong. Do not take it out that you currently have a majority, because I saw yesterday what majority you have – whenever you are opposed to five MPs, you must do what they suggest you propose and force Serbia. I expect what happens at the next session. We will not vote for this law. I'd like to see a arranged media space, but it seems to me that in my century it won't be possible because of the interest of politicians, criminals, tycoons and all the others who rule Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19552	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Excuse me, first of all, Mrs. Milosevic Jasmina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19553	I'm very sorry, Mr. Nikolic, I'm going to turn out to be someone's "wood lawyer," and I'm not. It's your custom to speak to people behind your back like that, and it would be very nice to say the same thing when Mr. Palma sits here. Let me remind you, let's just say, in 2005, you were the man who officially opened Palma Plus's studio in Belgrade. You, who whine to follow you wherever you were, owe our journalists ten pairs of shoes, because we followed you wherever you appeared. To call. We had no choice. So, if we're the TV that works in power, it's not true. That also confirms that the other day, when you had a convention in Nis, Mr. Vukic and you called us that we must convey it, all of it. You went on a direct transmission, for free. So, let me remind you that you never paid anything for us and that we respected everything, like everyone else. Another thing, we have newly formed parties, like LDP, at a time when no one followed them, I know because I went there, we followed them. It's completely incorrect that some are favored more. Another thing, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic may not have been in the Zoo, but you don't have to offer her anywhere to go, so let's take a picture of you there for 15 days. What is it that you've created so far in 18 years, where you participated in power, that you created something, let's take a picture of it? I don't know, except my own property maybe; I don't mind and I don't want to get involved in it. Another thing, as far as television is concerned, we can talk about newspapers, about certain newspapers called "Justice"; we know they're funded by public enterprises, and everything's fine. In that paper, I just haven't seen what recipes you like most. There are you from every possible angle. I don't mind, I won't comment on it, it's yours, and you have the right to do it, but I just don't understand why you're commenting on something that you're using, and it's in a negative connotation. I don't think that's right. I can only say for the end that Dragan Markovic Palma can be liked, you may not like it, but what is certain is that he was never a traitor, that he would never be, like you, the godfather of Vujice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19554	The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Kolundji. Just, please, a card again. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19555	I cannot wait for Dragan Markovic Palma to arrive, when it will be a day of voting and when the quorum will be determined, since he is a MP and president of the municipality, which is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But when he can do one, he can do the other. He owns television, and that's not possible under the law. You can't defend that. You're on the payroll of Dragan Markovic Palma, and you don't have to... Please, hold on, it really doesn't make sense. He won't mind if you keep your mouth shut while I speak. Please be a lady. Dragan Markovic Palma is campaigning for every government. It is now in a senseless campaign for the Democratic Party to win in Zemun and Vozdovac, in an unsuspecting campaign. So it was an eerie campaign for Kostunica to win the election, when we had the mayor's election. I'm just saying it. His is television, private, let him do whatever he wants, but he can't own television. It's his right to arrange it however he wants, to release whoever he wants, but he can't, Dragan Markovic Palma, the MP, be the owner of the television. He can have a transport company, he can have a trading company. He can sell all the coal to the military and pass the papers and thus have Milosevic fund the empire he created, and now the rest of you. I don't care about that, but remember what I said a few years ago. If we win, the first TV to be closed will be Palma Plus, whether you tell us or not. You carry what raises your ratings. I don't care if you're gonna pass on our rally. I never asked you to pass it on. Don't lie. Never. (President: E, now – "You're lying"... I have to give my wife my word. I repeat what I said: you, your owner, the editor's policy, the journalist, anyone, I have never called on you to pass on some of our gatherings or to pass on any of my statements. That's what I find an office lie, and you repeat it now, if you're ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19556	Mrs. Jasmina Milosevic, since you said she was lying and insulted her that way, but I ask you to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19557	First of all, I don't know if I'm talking to you before or after 5 September. Wasn't that when you called or were thinking of yourself now, after the fifth, whatever? You may not be yourself, but you have people who do it on your behalf, Mr. Wolfie. He can't do everything on his own, I guess there's some order with you, I guess you're making a deal, or everyone's doing whatever they want, which I wouldn't say. Although, if they follow your example, maybe anyone could do whatever they wanted. Secondly, I am on the payroll "Palma Plus", which stands, but is not the owner of Dragan Markovic Palm. You have it through all the papers, you can check it out. Yeah. Unlike you, I'm not lying, and you can tell yourself that you might be telling false information, maybe that's a little better expression. The second thing, whether he is fighting or not, is known which is our coalition, we have our coalition SPS - The United Pensioners of Serbia - Unique Serbia. We work perfectly normal, we have a campaign just like you, with what, unlike you... In the campaign you tell the people I don't know what you are, how some of you are; those who haven't done it in 18 years, so now suddenly you who are here are rolling. I don't know who other people are. However, unlike you, we have something to show in the campaign, and what we've done, and we've never betrayed, we haven't betrayed anyone's word, we haven't made a promise. I think this is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19558	Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19559	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, I really don't want to compare the media space sometimes now. Anyone who would want to do this seriously would realize that there is a huge difference in favour of what has been done since 2000, and that this media space, which is not ideal and may not be arranged until the end, is much more orderly than the chaos that had existed before. I don't want to defend the RRA either. What I'm saying is that, at the request of the Assembly Committee on Culture, a report has been requested from the RRA, and as soon as that report arrives, the Committee will, and all the MPs who are interested in this topic, which I really find extremely important... It is an important way of working RRA, and it is important that the Assembly assess Serbia's media space and what is happening in that space. The Committee will discuss the subject and all MPs, because it is something important for them, they can participate in it. Here, to some extent, when criticising this bill, there is actually a conflict of opposite attitudes. On the one hand, it is argued - what does it matter, let the Assembly choose if the proposed authority could not agree, why is it less democratic. On the other hand, it claims that the independent body, as well as all other independent bodies, should be depoliticalised as much as possible, as much more than deciding what is the parliamentary majority. On the one hand, the parliamentary majority is accused that it is she who decides who will be a member of the RRA Council, and on the other hand, it is said - yes, but why wouldn't the Assembly decide? I just want to remind you that in 2002, when the Law on Broadcasting was passed, the fundamental intensity of this law was to depolitize that space and that independent institution as much as possible. The only and best way to do this is by law to regulate that those who propose members of that council are outside the policy, so to determine who the proposings are and that they propose under the law, and we believe in the best interests of both the institutions and in the best interests of the Serbian citizens, best for that body. It's precisely because that was the intention of the law that was then passed we now have a situation like this. The fact is that the Assembly did not want to interfere at the time, and therefore there was no provision in the law that would give the congregation body the possibility that it would decide if the authorised proposings did not agree in accordance with the law. We are now trying with this change not to take over the authorised proposings their right to propose them, but that in situations where they cannot agree and agree the problem can still be solved. There have been remarks that erasing the word "mandatory" actually opens up a new space for abuse, so to speak, for political influence. I just want to say that this word refers to the fact that some authorised proposings necessarily propose two candidates, which left doubt to both the committee itself and the request for interpretation of other competent institutions whether that means that it is at least two mandatory, or necessarily two, and if more, then that means that the proposal is not done in accordance with the law. That is the only reason why we suggest that the word "mandatory" be deleted, which means that it remains to be proposed by the author of the proposal by two candidates. Of course, I don't want to break down here right now with various estimates of how our media space is now and how the RRA works. I call on all MPs to include the RRA report at the moment when the Committee on Culture and Information of the Assembly is to discuss, because that is an important issue, that is, the question of meeting the conditions for the creation of a truly democratic society. So the media is the most important factor in creating a democratic society. In that sense, the situation in the media is not something the Assembly should not be touched. As far as the whole of the law and the idea of the whole law changing is concerned, it's a question of the initiative of those who think that this law and this way that these problems are solved is not good. It is legitimate for everyone to launch an initiative for a completely different way to edit this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19560	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19561	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say a few words on behalf of the DHSS. By definition, the Republic Broadcasting Agency is an independent regulatory body. Unfortunately, in Serbia it is neither independent nor regulatory. It is dependent on political parties, is dependent on stakeholders, is dependent on some media tycoons. If they had some moral scruples, all members of the RRA Council would have resigned a long time ago, headed by Prime Minister Porphyri, who hasn't had a seat since the beginning of the RRA Council. This is how he settled his shoulder against those archies that held the disgraceful opera of Zoran Djindjic, who tried to make a coup against the patriarch, who were to be sentenced to pedophile, who had a business escort agency, who took pictures for the erotic magazine, who blessed the Red Beretts site, who held the skull in one hand, and in another machine gun, which thus undermined the reputation of SPC. Only with such an agency does Serbia have such a public service, which is by name, which it certainly does not, because it does not meet most of the programmes that public service should have. Only with such an RRA is a mandatory subscription, which is anti-constitutional and illegal; it is anti-constitutional because what is called public service by law does not meet the conditions for public service, and also cannot be charged with television subscription over electricity numbers. You can't charge for what's not used. Madam President, I ask you to put on the agenda a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting with over 15,000 signatures collected by the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. Madam Vice President, if you would be so kind as not to chat as I address the President of Parliament, I would be grateful to you, and to hear something from you. You talk all the time, don't be surprised. That's rude, rude and beyond the Rules of Procedure. So let's put it on the agenda, because it has nothing to do with the assembly of parliament, these 15,000 signatures were collected in accordance with the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, to abolish the subscription over the electricity counts, because it's against the constitution. This initiative is more than three years old, as well as our request to the Constitutional Court that this provision of the law be declared against the constitution. Only such a broadcasting agency does not reveal huge financial abuses in public service, which have led to a criminal complaint regarding the purchase of the Universal Films package. Only with such a broadcasting agency is there not revealed a circus, but not an abuse that was made in the election of our representative at the Eurovision Song. It seems insignificant, trivial, but these are election rules, declared in the meantime between a semifinal and a final evening. Then why are we surprised to see how we went on Eurovision like barefoot? I hope a whole new Council will be elected, not just two members, but all members, and then there will be conditions to choose a new director of public service according to the law, with professional and moral categories, so that not the director of a public service would not be someone whose name is full of black chronicles, whose name is connected to various criminals and half-worlds, who are physically accounted in courtrooms, courtrooms, in the streets, who insults everyone and anyone who says... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that he commits abuses that point to his haughtiness and all that depicts him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19562	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin the presentation, I must refer to the presentation of some representatives of the parliamentary groups, given the hypocrisy that exists and which violates the dignity of this assembly because it is not telling the truth about certain details. You won't mind if I use a few minutes to comment on it. Mrs Jasmina Milosevic, an example of what a broker who has failed to sell his actions on the market is an example of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. If we take into account the fact that he presented the offer to the Democratic Party in a negative context and that his arrogance and dissatisfaction with that response is now presented through such discussions in the Assembly, do not be surprised that you are the object of the attack, although it has nothing to do with you. The context in which it is spoken, whether from the position or opposition of representatives who are not yet legitimate in this assembly, will prove the next period. What's a fact is that media chaos has people who call on that chaos and point to it. We SRS MPs talked about it when we asked for information on who paid for the transfer of broadcasters to the Serbian Progressive Party's "Sava Center". We've been looking for information under what law, on which basis, and who financed it, and we haven't received any response from the RRA until today. Although it is clear that the broadcasters transferred the rally and broke the law, we have received information that monitoring will show what the broadcasters are talking about. Until today, we haven't received that answer. This was broadcast by TV Avala, and the delayed transmission and footage of the rally was broadcast by several Belgrade TV stations, including cable stations. If we consider what the president of the SNS himself said about cable stations, you'll understand what this is about. What is also evident is that the RRA has issued a warning measure only on Palma Plus TV, not taking into account the facts and behaviour of other television stations. Then don't be surprised why Mr Tomislav Nikolic didn't mention Studio B, or B92, or all those anti-Serbian TVs that worked in the pre-election campaign, exclusively cheering for one, now a parliamentary group, i.e. for the ruling majority, or for DS. If we also consider that the RRA also punished the broadcasters who transferred the scientific conference for the promotion of Dr Vojislav Seselj's book, then you can see the difference between the criminal policy issue of the RRA and who it is rooting for at the moment. Because of this whole jumbus in the media, we ask the question -- who controls the media, does the tycoons, does the Agency, does the government, whether the opposition, which has no access to these media, whether those for whom media darkness has long been a normal phenomenon, whether those who do not have the right to tell any truth, who will not come to any TV screen, or those who have a story that they are fighting against narcotics and the main financier is the biggest drug distributor in the Balkans, exactly that party? Now we ask whether they are clearing the ground for their distributor, whether they are now solving the problem of attacking Palma Plus by opening space for other media, without considering the story of Studio B, B92 and the newspaper "Justice", which function the way they operate. In order not to deal with irrelevant matters and comments of individuals who do not matter, I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting. This law is another one in a series of laws that needs to explain to us that he did everything he played, that media control was done in the best possible way by forming an independent body. The independent body in this case is the Council, without thinking who is proposing it, in what way it proposes, how much a member of the Council is paid and what are his responsibilities. All of this makes it easy to conclude that the congregation is the one proposing, i.e. The ruling majority, and that it is an authorised representative from the DS, that the Assembly is unable to comply with the obligations of this law within the time period itself. I must remind the members of the Committee on Culture that, a month and a half ago, all the proposings on that committee agreed to propose themselves to the Assembly. Now we have this situation because of terminology – it has to be two. What does two have to mean? It can't be one, and it doesn't mean it can't be three and four. Again, it seems to be a concept of democracy being served here. I will remind you of just one simple example of this concept – the elected chairman of the City Committee of the Democratic Party Dragan Gilas. He was the only candidate in those internal elections. The election was held, the vote was cast all weekend, and then he came out and declared victory. That's how it's done right now in this case. You have at least two, because one doesn't have to be chosen. It is known that one vote is enough to choose it, and everything else, three, four, five, does not exist. That's what we absolutely oppose. When SRS MPs adopted this law in the package, not now when they are amended and supplemented, said we would have this problem, that in the assembly procedure there would be a proposal to amend the Law on Broadcasting, a proposal to change the verification of new members of the Council before the end of their mandate, for some unknown reason, and that this is not Serbia's public interest at the moment we have huge problems, we are accused of obstructing media reform in Serbia. Here's what's going on right now -- we have about 60 and some points, the law, where these dots, thank God, are separated from the wine law, from the land, agriculture and everything else that's in the agenda. But again, the promoter is not here and yet we cannot discuss in a way that should be appropriate to this congregation. Another fact that speaks of the law itself is that until the election of new members, the Council has made a fundamental decision in incomplete composition. Another evidence is the urgency of this procedure, because it entered the procedure in such a way, which is not justified if we take into account the fact that the competition opened on 15 August 2008 and that it is happening only today. So that's another proof that the RRA is a political organisation. And if you want to make media control and create an independent body, the ruling majority that has proposed these changes must propose changes to the whole law and then introduce order into Serbia's media space in the way that is necessary. Does the choice of new members of the Council have anything to do with the responsible social government by having their incomes of between 120,000 and 18,000 or by having their boastful behaviour in relation to their jurisdiction so large that they are mostly small emitters, politically undefined, suffering damage? I must again underline that, even now in the draft agenda, the member elected for the RRA Council has a pretty good history, negative in the context of Serbia, negative in the context of action for the media in Serbia, and that in the draft of this law, or that it is presented in the Parliament's proposal in the best possible way, and that this is again the collapse of the media and the misrepresentation of the truth. I must, for the sake of the citizens, draw attention to a few things, which are the roles and responsibilities of the Agency, and remind myself that the financial conditions for the Agency's start of work were provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 and that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 116. The law, since 1 January 2007, the Agency only generates revenue from the compensation paid by the broadcasters for the programme’s broadcasting rights, i.e. it does not benefit from budgetary resources, on the basis of the provision of Article 34(7). The law, and that the extra income goes back to the budget, transfers to the budget. Excess revenue is realised because of the enormous charges and taxis paid by the broadcasters, and local broadcasters. Because of these huge loads and taxis, small emitters have been choked by the media pump of large emitters, controlled by Soros, and we will come up with the connection of Soros to the media, and we are coming into the situation that asphyxiation of the media is in the most brutal way possible. I'm going to give you an example of the SOS channel, I'm going to give you an example of the BK House, I'm going to give you an example of the Constitutional Court ruling that RTL from eight other broadcasters received a court dispute that the competition was not properly and legally implemented. In view of all this, as regards the financial resources defined here in the way they are defined, the 2009 surplus of 223,600,000 is envisioned, which will not be used to help small broadcasters, but will pump into Serbia's budget. This is the biggest reason why this "independent body" is protected as a white bear from all broadcasters, when it comes to legal regulations, competitions and the allocation of everything else in the RRA's jurisdiction. Because of these surpluses provided for by members of the Agency's Council, they live a beautiful life, titled - life on the cost of the emitter. That's what their report on the work in which they say they've been around the world. When we look at that report, we see that they were in Latvia in May 2008, in Madrid in June 2008, that they were in Rome in July 2008, in Rovinj in September, Ireland in Dublin, in Hong Kong in November, Beijing in October, Turkey in Istanbul in December, etc., not to read. If these trips were used to improve the media image and state in Serbia, we might be able to justify these funds to them in some way, but given the fact that only one media house has received public notice, that one radio from Capca, "The Voice of the Church", has been abolished, and that everyone else has done their job honestly, with no offense, respecting the RRA regulations, which is certainly not true... The 2009 financial plan says revenues are planned towards real sources. Real sources, and they don't know how many cells will be shut down, how many stations will be made, how many ads will be, how commercial stations and television stations function. So the real picture here, like every time by the ruling majority, is not represented. What is worth undermining is that expenditure is suited to the basic tasks of the RRA and the need for the Agency to carry out quality and successful tasks. If any jobs are successful, except for the shut-down and asphyxiation of the media, then there's no problem with me agreeing to that. So, one more thing I would draw attention to is the powers of the Council. Since we discussed the Agency's competences, I must also refer to the Council, because the main changes and additions to this law refer to the election of a member of the Council, which has been reduced by deadlines and we have had a discussion by previous speakers. The Council therefore exercises control and takes care of the consistent application of the provisions of this law (consistent application, I said it works, some are being punished, and some are being rewarded), overseeing the work of broadcasters in the Republic of Serbia, is dealing with the analysis (I will talk about the analysis in the second part of my presentation, related to pre-election actions in 2008) and takes appropriate measures according to the broadcasters, in accordance with this law. What appropriate measures have been taken by the broadcasters that broadcast the SNS meeting from the "Sava Center" is still unknown. It is said to prevent broadcasting of programmes containing information that encourages discrimination. We are all witnessing that the Assembly, as the only legislative body, has been exposed to the biggest discrimination in the media in the last few months, and that, of course, it has been done by task, with the control of the media, in which you have daily report on how many MPs eat in a congregation restaurant, how many miles it has passed, what it has been eating, how much it has been dressed, how many daily it has been, how many receipts it receives, etc. The opposition has again been accused of this whole negative context, i.e. In this case, the SRS, I have to stress it, because some people mix themselves with the opposition. Taking into account the fact that members of the Council are the same members from the previous term and have left behind only negative consequences, especially as regards the Constitutional Court's ruling, that they have made statements that no law, no rulings and that they are protected as white bears, we see that only a re-emergence has been done in this session, if I may so express myself, members – that the president and the deputy are now ordinary members, and that the old members are now in office as president and deputy, although they have a six-year term under the law. I must briefly refer to the ruling of the Supreme Court, which was brought on July 10th, with respect to the RTL suit and seven other radios and TV stations and two resolutions of the RRA Council in connection with the allocation of frequencies. What is symptomatic is that no one but President and Deputy President of the Council in that term, Nenad Cekic and Aleksandar Vasic, came forward on those verdicts. And if they hadn't come forward, maybe this wouldn't have been so media-accompanied, but what's important is that the then president and deputy accused both RTL and the Supreme Court of Corruption. Of course, there have been reactions by the president of the court, there have been reactions by RTL, but the very charge of corruption of the Supreme Court of Serbia says the Council is untouchable. They say that despite any rulings by the Supreme Court, RTL will not, while those members of the RRA Council have never been granted permission, no matter what the Serbian Supreme Court ruled -- Vasic, a member of the Council and a vice president, said in a statement delivered to the media. In the same statement, he noted that the Supreme Court is continuing a series of legitimately suspicious and completely illogical decisions, as it has already made in the broadcasting ring. This is a direct charge. However, he scored the next thesis – that it was unclear how many millions of reasons RTL prepared in its lobbying for obtaining the programme's broadcasting license in Serbia affected this Supreme Court verdict. So this is a statement by a member of the Council that is directly accusing of corruption, the Supreme Court of Serbia. In April 2006, a list of stations that have the right to broadcast a programme at national frequencies was announced. Then some emitters who were convinced that they had fulfilled all the conditions remained, so to speak, below the line. It was natural to get angry. On 19 May 2006, the Supreme Court annulled the Council's decision on the temporary ban on broadcasting on BK TV is the same as the Council, which decided otherwise this evening, and said – a new decision on the temporary withdrawal of BK Telekom d.o.o. for a period of 30 days, while at the same time the objections of all other losers were rejected in the competition for the allocation of frequencies. (President: Mr Avramovic, it has been 20 minutes. Will you continue from that time of yours you have or not? I'd go on. (President: Continue, you may. ) So BK TV was finally disabled, and a message was sent to the general public that the Council was invulnerable and that it did not occur to him to reconsider his decisions, even though it was requested by the Supreme Court! The saddest episode here is, in any case, with former Culture Minister Dragan Koadinovic, who rated the results of the frequency allocation contest as odd at least, although many consider them scandalous, a council member said. It is also important to note that they have presented themselves as winners by law, which is absolutely false; they are calling for a Law on Broadcasting which says that he, on the one hand, prescribes that the court can only review Council decisions, suggests possible procedural errors, and, on the other hand, practically enables members of that body to manage their feud for life. The evidence, even from a theoretical point of view, is a Article 29 that says what these measures are, four measures, in a situation where MPs of the National Assembly have the right to resolve a member. We have even changes and additions today. Number one, it's a disease. Two, it's a lie, if it is found that the applicant listed false information about himself or failed to provide information about his political engagement (we will discuss this when there is a next item of the agenda), i.e. connection with the owners of a media house. Under three, it's a change of circumstances. It is if a member becomes politically engaged or linked to a political party or media house in the meantime. Under four, non-response of duty. It's probably if he misses some trip about the cost of the emitter. So, Cekic's group, if it serves the health and political ties it has in the ruling majority, can do whatever and as much as it wants. Nowhere in the law mentions any indifference, unconsciousness, boastiness in public appearances, blood alcohol levels allowed during these events and similar details, which were conducted by the media in public by analysing the behaviour of individual members of the Council. In addition to the law, the RRA Council's behaviour is supported by the winners in the competition, which is somewhat logical, for issuing broadcasting permits, and after meeting with members of the Council on 12 July, it was announced that representatives of Pink, B92, Avala, Happy, Kosha and Fox support the RRA's work, which introduced order in the field of broadcasting. Here, when you see who supported the Broadcasting Agency, it's all clear to you. No matter how much this support is received, it's completely understandable; after millions of investments, it wouldn't be appropriate for any winner to fall into the water after a year. The most difficult thing is to explain the silence of other state institutions. If the owners of this or that television have reason to remain silent or supportive, it is unclear why someone whose word should not be heard with a fist about the table and break anyway too long a history of the RRA Council and finally introduce order into the field of broadcasting. It is true that the law protects members of the Council, as if they were not ordinary people, but at the very least, the only remaining specimens of giant pandas, but it is also true that this law can be changed, done or adapted unless it meets the needs of society. The needs of society certainly are not the needs of an elite media society, such as some political parties have a majority in these societies. For the rest of my time, I would look back, as I said in the opening section, on the monitoring report on the work of the broadcaster in 2008, especially during the pre-election campaign. The difficulties represented circumstances and the fact that in Serbia, contrary to the current Law on Broadcasting, there remain broadcasters whose founders are local, or regional communities, who are now being choked by force, for which the law envisioned the status of public service; public service, I must underline this because it is not the public service of European Serbia, but the public service of Serbia. It is a simple conclusion, because the subscription over the number of electricity is paid by citizens of Serbia, not by citizens of Europe. Please remove the term "European" from this name, especially in the pre-election campaign, because it also goes in favour of those who advocate European values that reverse us. Therefore, in practice, this means that public service broadcasters did not treat all emissions coming out of their legal obligation as pre-election, nor did they label them, although in most cases it was unequivocally pre-election. This is the custom acquired by broadcasters who are not in public service status. The RRA, as predicted, has prescribed that all electoral content, whether mandatory or not, should be marked as such. Disrespect for this obligation poses a danger for broadcasters to favour some lists and candidates by placing them on regular shows, so beyond that part of the programme being treated as a pre-election programme, and thus de facto to make an imbalance among participants in the elections. We have as many examples as you want. Why is that? There's a question. In the campaign for the presidential election, I'm just going to give some examples of how this story of mine would be complete, the broadcasters didn't understand the need for all the shows with pre-election content to be marked as such. That is why the Agency was obliged to recognise the broadcasting obligations and to draw attention to them. The Agency only did so when it comes to "Palma Plus", and for all other media, it did not respect its provision, which it had made, related to the behavior of the broadcaster in the election campaign. A particular difficulty in the campaign was caused by content that had indirect pre-election significance, not great, but in a narrow sense they were not part of the election campaign, broadcasters say, which is absolutely not true. First of all, it is the signing of the SAA with the EU, as well as the signing of a contract between the car factory in Kragujevac and the "Fiyat" and the gas agreement with Russia. Reports and statements of these events and analyses have not been treated as pre-election content, and you know what these three things have brought to the ruling majority today, starting with the assumption that events that could have taken place in a similar way were beyond the pre-election context. Now look at how "out-election contexts" are used in pre-election silence and how much these "out-election contexts" cost Serbian citizens and where "Stava" is today, with what model and mode of action, where today the SAA, which is at our annual level, takes 300m euros, and how other decisions that were past pre-election silence and campaigns work. The Supervisory and Analysis Service only limited itself to recording these events, failing to assess whether it was a breach of pre-election silence. Now we come to the most interesting, which is that violations of the broadcasting of unmarked pre-election content, which is a violation of the general provisions of Article 1(2). The binding instructions, as already indicated, were made by broadcasters and content showing up as pre-election content only when it comes to pre-election activities in the narrow sense of words and performs in streamshows, in which individuals are preceded by more than the theme of the performance, or in the entertainment programme they do not see as a pre-election programme. What is the most common cause of this type of offence? Don't be surprised, after the election or before the election, when politicians have other roles to gain some cheap political point by binding on themselves a mass that may be listening to folk music, which may be listening to fun music, a mass that dances, a mass that supports gay populations, etc. TV station B92 and Radio B92 have seen a lack of affection for some lists and politicians. These are above all (this is set out in the Radiodifuse Agency report) by the SRS and Vojislav Kostunica. However, the conclusion of unequal treatment on this television and radio cannot be carried out on the basis of time representation (see now response), but based on the way the broadcaster dealt with pre-election content, which is certainly a biased way of reporting, choice of guests in shows and other things. These negative phenomena certainly do not have a B92 and Studio B report in the Broadcasting Agency because otherwise they would have to cut their decision, which is to give public notice to that TV and radio, which is certainly not done. As an excerpt in the pre-election report, the regional television house can also be assessed, and according to the list (in one example, the Bosniak list of Sulejman Ugljanin is ten times more represented than all other lists combined) and according to the manner of reporting, since reporting on political opponents takes the media Satanisation situation. That's what we could see in the election campaign. This television is a means of political accounting for the account of the Bosniak List and is a multiple violation of the codes and basic rules governing the behaviour of the broadcaster when it comes to the information programme and the pre-election programme, according to the RRA report. The recommendation of the RRA Council that the pre-election periods paid during the day do not go 90 minutes, or 30 minutes, to the so-called Prime-time, not respected. It's the worst, rude violation that could have recorded the RRA, which is proof that he wasn't doing his job properly. With regard to the general respect for pre-election regulation and the professional level of the information programme, it can be said that there is a difference between television based in Belgrade and television based in some of the towns within Serbia. Even when they go deaf about general journalistic principles in order to help some lists and candidates in the media, Belgrade broadcasters do so in a more subtle way and the violation leaves less impression than a violation in the interior of Serbia, which is certainly not defined as a non-infringement. Now I'd like to look at the individual emitters to get a full picture. Channel RTS 1 – In contributions outside the bloc, it is possible to give some indirect advantage, to use the state functions of the list of ZES which are related to the SAA, to the energy agreement with Russia and to sign the Memorandum of Cooperation "The flag" and "Fiyat", which is the greatest attention given in the pre-election silence itself. It's the most favored on RTS 1. RTS 2 – 2 days before the pre-election silence, although it was not recorded as a violation in the RRA, I must mention, the Euronet weekend show, the Network production group, in which citizens were surveyed whether we would be better off joining the EU. Besides being a clear and clear violation of pre-election silence, this is also a violation of the RRA manual, to which the RRA has not responded and has not issued any kind of warning. Vojvodina Radio-Television – in information shows, as well as in other informative pre-election content, candidates on election lists for the province and local elections in the Vojvodina territory were represented in comparison with other candidates much more. However, this can be explained by different degrees of activity that the candidates had in the area, the justice of RTD. When we take a percentage of the total amount of space used by tv, we see that 37.7% used only the list of ZES, and the rest of the political breaks don't have a third of it. Other days on TV, during the pre-election campaign, in information shows (Vojvodjanska dilogne), contributions were recorded outside the pre-election bloc concerning the regular activities of state and political officials in which there are elements of the pre-election promotion. I've got a stenogram here again, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the percentage of the list's representation, where the list of ZES is mostly preceded. I can't bypass the famous TV house B92, the main media voice of the DS and the ruling majority. Considering who the founder of B92 is, how many Americans have shares in that media house (38.7%), that the list of founders is registered and companies registered in New York, for example, the MDLF, owned by George Soros, and when we look at whose purpose and on whose account and according to which financial resources it works, it is easy to conclude that B92 is the main vote of the Democratic Party. I'll give you proof of that. In election blocks, mainly the activities of the most relevant coalitions and parties have been presented, but with a abstention of critical stance, often with a negative connotation towards representatives of the SRS, with the potential for an alleged post-election co-operation agreement. This is the agency's report. This isn't a report from a forum. Here the pre-election content of the list of ZES (34.1%), are central information emissions; press conference reports – reporters used the "journalists asked" model and thus obtained an exclusive right to choose what they would release and whatnot, in order to compromise the views of some political actors who may have been candidates, particularly by the SRS. In an broadcast contribution, which said Serbian National Council representatives (see now this kind of abuse) in Kosovo and Metohija announced that they would file criminal charges against Boris Tadic, Bozidar Djelic and Vuk Jeremic for the signing of the SAA, Jaksic and Ivanovic, journalists asked whether it was true that they received several hundred thousand dinars per month and whether an invitation for voters to vote for the SRS and DSS was based on privileges granted by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Now look at the paradox, how two types of information are cut, and how whoever gave quality and real information, for good reason, is demoted by facts that are not at all the subject of pre-election flow and facts that are absolutely untrue. This has not been answered by any representative of the ruling majority, has not responded either to the RRA and has not been warned to anyone. I would like to list a few more examples of the basic violation of the code, especially by the Democratic Party – the visit of Dragan Djilas to Ivica Lazovic, wounded during the 1996 SPS countermitting. The irony, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, is that you are together today in power with such people. Unmarked archives of wounded Lazovic, a pre-election block dominated by a pool of blood on the sidewalk, are used, which is a possible violation of the code, item 2. item 5, which speaks of accuracy. So the countermitting did not create the Socialist Party of Serbia. This gentleman, Ivica Lazovic, was not in a pool of blood and the recording was not archived or marked, nor was he talking about. This violation of the Democratic Party's basic code of conduct, in the form of a party's promotion by visiting Dragan Gilas, speaks sufficiently of the RRA never mentioning a similar situation, not punishing or public warning. However, the signing of the SAA with the EU pays great attention beyond the pre-election event. In addition, various occasions, such as the signing of the SAA, the Fijata Agreement and the flag, the reaction of top state officials (including the main representatives of the campaign of the list of ZES), Boris Tadic, Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic (now they are all listed) were broadcast 34 times in a central information show outside the pre-election blocs. I'm still talking about B92. At the same time, representatives of the authorities gathered in the DSS and NS Aleksandar Popovic, Vojislav Kostunica, Velimir Ilic, Andrija Mladenovic were only broadcast eight times, and opposition representatives of the SRS, Gordana Pop-Lazic and others, only five times. So this report says enough in favor of my thesis that B92 did not comply with the provisions of the Broadcasting Agency, and that the RRA never responded to it. Representatives of the LDP (Kedomir Jovanovic) and SPS (Ivica Dacic) outside the electoral bloc have only been broadcast to the central information show once. Therefore, the fact is also shown in this table that 49.6% of the informational pre-election content of the central information emissions was used exclusively by the list of ZES. I'd like to draw a conclusion on the B92 report in the election campaign. This is the final assessment of where codes and instructions 1 and 3 of the provisions 2, 12 and 2 of the Codes must be considered which states that it is prohibited under the form of an information programme and any other programme to run a pre-election campaign for any benefit or discrimination against the party or candidates. Given that participants in their broadcaster's election programmes had unequivocally equal terms, it is no wonder that the deception and manipulation of Serbian citizens is so high. Since I don't have much time, let me say a few more things about the B92 media house. So, one of the biggest shareholders in the B92 media house, George Soros, is widely known as the founder of the Open Society Institute, which finance democratic change throughout Europe, throughout the East, and we felt these democratic changes right through that media house. A similar example is the October 5th coup, which was made and organized so that this building in which we are sitting today was damaged to that extent that only Soros could have paid for it. The International Crisis Group is receiving money from Soroše's organisations, with the goal of destabilising the region in the world. In addition, the consequences of Soroshe's humanism – an example of a $200 billion Polish debt; an advocate for abortion and propaganda of homosexualism in the countries of Eastern Europe, thanks to the domination of Soros. Afterwards, we wonder who holds a cable in Serbia, which finances certain media houses. Both the example and the evidence are best seen in Serbia. George Soros is one of the signatories of the Serbian bombing petition. Nobody's gonna say that. He publicly supported the breaking of the SFRY on several occasions, giving money to Slovenian, Croatian, Muslim and Shiptarian separatists in order to support this breaking. He financed the exploitation of Russian resources and the poverty of the Russian Federation, which is widely known. He financed and financed media that are carriers of Serbia's phobia. It finances independent Kosovo and Metohija and a wild exploitation of Serbian resources in the southern Serbian province. I'll tell you later about candidates from Kosovo and Metohija. I would give another example of the Satanization of Radio B92 towards political insinuators – leading a negative campaign against the DSS-NS and the SRS coalition by trying to politically compromise representatives of the same lists under the cover of pre-election reports. How? Out of election blocks, the broadcaster followed statements by Boris Tadic, Djelic, Dinkic, Jeremic and others as state activities, with very often those statements clearly in the campaign's direct function. One of the famous examples of abuse is information that the leader of "Stroja" supported the DSS and the SRS, noting that their leader was sentenced to one year in prison for dissipating religious and national hatred. See what the abuse of one radio can be seen in. I'd refer to Studio B, so-called. The Belgrade-based house, which was funded by Belgrade's citizens, which was publicly reported by the City Assembly again by the DS, who incorrectly reported the abduction of the Zemun municipality, which passed on the reports of the city's session in the manner it was responding to, which did not call for guests and real treatment, gave priority to the opposition's guests over the issues of the viewers, who fixed the questions and answers that the guest should give during the broadcast, prepared people who would be participants and prepared questions. Then we came to the conclusion that citizens are quite familiar with the work of the City Assembly, which has no direct transmission, and the City Assembly is banned from entering ordinary citizens, according to the new rules of procedure, unless they are announced by some special visa regime to enter the building of the Belgrade City Assembly, as if it were the assembly of the Democratic Party, not the citizens of Belgrade. So, the conclusion, on the basis of this example, is that it is a political television Studio B. Regional Television Novi Pazar, as no other television which was the object of surveillance, according to a statement, has been converted into a pre-election instrument of a party, and this is the Bosniak list for the European Sandzak. 29 hours and 43 minutes were spent on the pre-election program, more than on any television. In a single day, 8 / 8 5, the Bosniak List had six hours and 45 minutes of the pre-election programme, about half an hour of the Single Serb List pre-election programme, and the other contents were attached to the Bosniak list for the European Sandzak. On this television, it was broadcast about the Bosniak List ten times more content than on all the other lists combined, and that's 93.8% of your total lease, according to the RRA report. Spot ZES, picture number one: photo of Vuk Draskovic, the latest date, with three fingers raised; under the logo in which he writes – coalition ZES number 1, and signed Tadic, Draskovic and Ljajic. By voting for number one you vote for, then there goes the unrealisticity that is presented. Image number two: still remains the signature, followed by the video ton-mounted, unmarked as archival – says Vuk Draskovic at a rally in Raško in 1990. So the unsigned speech is in the video of the list of ZES. In 1990 it was the year in which Vuk Draskovic was so-called The opposition, and now the coalition has contributed to finding him even in the video, related to the 1990s. Third image: Boris Tadic and Ljajic's latest recording from a rally and again at the beginning and end of the video of the paintings from the beginning, the photo of Vuk Draskovic, to finish the recording of Tadic applauding, and finally again Draskovic from the beginning, with the signature of Tadic coalition, Draskovic, Ljajic, vote for 1. Since this wasn't clear enough, I'm obliged to explain it a little bit. The speeches of Vuk Draskovic are not marked as archival material, which is a violation of the code passed by the RRA Council. The material has proved to be unequivocal about malignancies. It's not named whose spot, nor who paid for his broadcast. The same question was raised at the time, and the same question was asked by us – who paid for the broadcasting of the founding assembly at the "Sava Center" of newly formed English and American parties, which injured the broadcasting code, Annex 2 to point 2) and Annex 1 to point 4)? The Sandzak Democratic Party's video begins with a video of material that has been pointed out that it is not recommended for people under the age of 18. In a gathering in Tutin Rasim Ljajic says – please do not attack anyone other than SDA in this campaign, followed by a mounted video of 10. Nine. In 2006, news that says: a parliamentary candidate of SDA Ruzdija Durovic was killed at the polling post, and then a picture of the murder scene, a tape of the funeral, and -- for the murder of convicted security officers of SDP President Rasim Ljajic. Film – bomb on SDA activist Mahmuda Hajrovic's house 14. 11. In 2006, mounted footage; for the murder and attempted murder were convicted members of SDP security of SDP Rasim Ljajic; SDA member Sandzak Hasan Duvavik was fuelled and burned – a mounted footage. Imagine what political parties are serving in election campaigns to attribute to themselves some political point! This is the most cruel spread of hatred towards each other, no matter what list it is and what nationality, but the RRA Council did not react to this video and did not give a warning. Another thing that is very important, which I must point out is that regional television has interfered with the dispute between TV Tutin and SDP over SDP's dissatisfaction with the way their rally is shown on TV Tutin. TV Tutin's reaction shows itself incorrect and gives the impression that the SDP is dominated by supporters of the Bosniak list for the European Sandzak. This is in the RRA report. An interview with Bajram Omeragic, a representative of the Bosniak List and president of the government's Council for Equal Economic Development, is said to be in an unmarked pre-election programme, and the content of the interview is largely a negative campaign compared to other SDP, LDP, DSS and G 17 plus parties, which is certainly a violation of the code of point 4 (no party presence) and instructions (direct political propaganda). From this whole story, it is clear that the regional television programme represents a fundamental violation of pre-election broadcasting, and it is clear that there has been no warning. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we take into account that the RRA has one member of the Council from Kosovo and Metohija and that member of the Council is presented as being from Kosovo and Metohija, although everyone in Kosovo and Metohija knows that this is not true, that it is a candidate of Živojin Rakočević, who is an editor of KIM Radio, who is known for not playing Serbian folk music until 11 March 2006 and that on the day of the death of former President of the Republic of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic on the radio KIM, the folk music, which has been favored for the next three days, and if we take into account the fact that the news of Rug's death on that radio was three days of mourning and the fact of who is the founder, more specifically who is the fundier of this radio, which is American, English and German representatives in Kosovo and Metohija, it is obvious that during the news that there are not having to be the main control of the media. His co-operation was particularly achieved with B 92 radio and television. Otherwise, it's about a person born and originating in Moraca, Montenegro. He is one of the four people who destroyed the largest media national project aimed at the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. I particularly underline that this was the KIM radio, "The Hair Network" and "The Voice of the South", that the values of these public texts that were to function in Serbian favour were several million euros without today being of absolute value, because they are seeking assistance from representatives of America, England and Germany so that they can issue statements proposed by the government of Kosovo and Metohija. I have to mention the following people who are participants in the breaking of this project: Mr. Živojin Rakočević from Moraca from Montenegro, Goran Avramovic from Kragujevac, Predrag Radonjic from Užica, who lives in Belgrade, and Nektaria, now Isak Vorgučić, otherwise former director and current owner of KIM Radio. It is a monk who broke down in 2005 and served Kosovo and Metohija citizens on the other hand that it was the church's voice and that it was the priest's voice, which is why also the bishop of Artemia left this post. Taking into account the fact that, according to the surveys, the percentage of listening to KIM radios is very low, that the "Glass of the South" has not issued any papers in the last year and a half, except in the past month, a number that speaks more about the Shiparian government than Serbs and the state of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, it is clear that this RRA commission or advice has used the ruling majority, under inscription – in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where it appoints a member, to have some milder version. We in the SRS absolutely agree that there should be representation in the region, but we know very well the opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija and we all know that there is no direct notification from Kosovo Metohija, that there is no direct inclusion, that there are no lines, that under other media houses down there are registered so that the government of Kosovo will not choke them, that they have problems with financing, that their equipment is bad, that they have no rooms, that they use their official vehicles, that they use phones privately to bring some information that will be released under question on Serbia's public media service. Taking into account the fact that Tijanic himself knows how many people in Kosovo and Metohija are paid in front of RTS, and works in the Kosovo administration, such as editor Marjan Ljubic, who works in the administration of Kosovo and Metohija, he is a worker of the Cypriot administration as director of the Department of Education and Culture for the Municipality of Strpce and receives a salary in RTS, and RTS has not made any contributions to that municipality in the last four years... And, if he made a contribution, he contributed to whether DS committees Stanko Jakovljevic and Radojica Mrđinac had a problem with the board of the Republic of Kosovo, the flag of Albania and the EU flag of entry into the municipality of Strpce. Not to mention reporting that should be a priority compared to the one the report gives. If the legally elected government, for example, in the municipality of Strpce, has made a statement that it has notified both the president of the Republic, and the prime minister and all the competent institutions, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, that DS committees have placed a board, as representatives of the Shiparian government or the mayor of Strpce, on which it writes -- the Kosovo Republic, on the one hand, the Albanian flag, on the other hand, there was no reaction in Serbia's public service, there was no statement. The question arises, if we have people who receive money from RTS and live in Kosovo and Metohija and work for the Shiparian administration, which is why the unobstructed intelligence from Kosovo and Metohija is presented in Serbia's media service, if any. I must point out, for example, that another type of pressure on Serbs – in the municipality of Strpce, where 75% of Serbs, is usurped by the Albanian administration of buildings that served as home to culture, i.e. A youth home in the municipality of Strpce; it had an Albanian flag, a flag of the EU, Germany, England and America, and there was also no reaction on the issue, and Serbs were quite upset. On 15 June, the head of the municipality informed KFOR, UNMIK, OSCE, EULEX and KPS, police, after which he pointed out the consequences of such an act by the Cypriots tasked with provoking to destabilise opportunities in Serbia, particularly in Kosovo and Metohija. We ask the question -- what did the president do about this memo, what did the prime minister do, what did the Broadcasting Agency do? What did all those who had to inform that the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija were in an awkward situation? It is important that they inform about whether they should pay electricity to the Kosovo Shiptar government or not; that attitude was expressed through the Democratic Party network, that they should be paid, so even some meetings were organised in some restaurants, the Swedish government's money was shared, some committees to prepare the next local elections conducted by the Cypriot government, and no one wanted to publish it either. Unfortunately, it is preceded by Serbian officials tasked with destabilising the terrain, by introducing forced administrations into municipalities where Serbs are in power, no matter which political parties. There's been an unobstructed announcement about all of this. There are no warnings, there are no penalties; there are only warnings for those who disagree with the general policy of the ruling majority or Soros himself. I ask the Broadcasting Agency to propose to the ruling majority that this law be extinguished, that a law of quality be entered into the assembly procedure, which will arrange the media area. Otherwise, you'll be in a position to convince us that the country is a record, that it's doing everything that it plays, that we don't know what the situation is and what the odds are, and what wills, ways and desires of you ruling majority to introduce media darkness to those who don't think like you. If millions of citizens have signed a petition for the direct transfer of the trial to Dr Vojislav Seselj, and you release that direct transmission at three o'clock in the morning, it says enough how much you respect the citizens and says enough whether these citizens should pay the subscription. I've had so much in this exhibit. In the further discussion, I will join you in relation to the need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19564	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, DSS and SRS, so I give the floor to Parliamentarian Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19565	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, for starters and for citizens to explain what we're discussing here today. The Broadcasting Agency Council has nine members, and the two members' mandate expired in February. One is proposed by NGOs, citizens' associations and represented by them, and another by journalists and other professional associations. In the procedure followed by these two authorised proposings, they could not agree on two candidates for each and have proposed three or more. In any case, the Committee on Culture and Information of the Serbian Parliament did not do something that, in our court, had to do, and therefore we have a waste of time here and unnecessary changes to the law that do not touch essentially, and we could spend that time on the essence. The board could have done two things. When the already authorised proposings could not agree on two candidates, of which we would choose one, he could have suggested to us the MPs of two candidates, and he could have told us – okay, here you go, gentlemen of the Parliament, all the candidates who arrived from the authorised applicants. That would be normal, because the member who is now changing to the request of 121 MPs of the ruling majority reads: "Every authorised proposing submits to the competent committee of the Assembly a list of which are necessarily two candidates for a member of the Council... ". And they were on those lists of two candidates, even more. I really think that the interpretation that the ruling majority has drawn is to delay the election of members of the RRA Council to whom the mandate has expired is extremely tense, cynically and hypocritically. Why? Because it unlawfully extended the term of office of those to whom the term of office has expired. Secondly, when required, the 2002 Law writer thought it had to be at least two, not one. So there must be a choice between. Why do you have to do two? It means it could be three. What happened here? That's why I'm giving criticism to you, Mrs. Kolundjia, because you represent 121 MPs. We have warned you that in February, the mandate of the RRA members will expire (this is why my colleague Andric, who took part in it, will speak more) but you have failed to lobby the members you wish to have. Press associations and professional organisations have proposed some members, could not agree. Also, no NGOs and citizens' associations. Oh, my God, it's possible that tomorrow these different subjects don't agree about two. What do you get by throwing the word out necessarily? It will be up to each authorising officer to submit to the competent committee of the Assembly a list containing two candidates for a member of the Council. It won't say necessarily. There are two, and then there will be three. All of what you're predicting could have been done, not to waste any time, but the problem is obviously that you didn't agree. You didn't have a choice, there are various interests in your ruling majority, more specifically, probably in your party, because the Agency really controls Serbia's media space. The bottom line is that in this media area, Serbia, for example, spends dozens and dozens of millions of euros annually through commercials, and it is obvious that someone close to the president of your party, undoubtedly, has an interest in further controlling it. That's why I think you're buying time, and we're wasting time, so you can figure out who you need and make sure nothing changes. So I think we could have avoided this, that you, after all, if you wanted to control everything, and obviously you wanted to, you had time before February to do that job, which you're obviously going to have to do now to bring these different interests into line and that nothing in the media sphere would change. My esteemed colleague Shami, as well as the other MPs who spoke before me, have found various RRA objections, and they stand less or more, but I wouldn't talk about it right now because it's not the subject of this law. It's natural that Mr. Shami doesn't mention, say, something that's seemingly and falsely called a public service. That's my biggest grudge to the Agency, which you're obviously trying to control. We do not, Mrs. Kolundzija, have a public service headed by this imposter Karicev, whom you adopted from Kostunica. It is natural that Mr. Shami does not mention him, because he was set up at a time when he was his party, but you inherited him, obviously, with great pleasure, and the members of the board of directors who appointed the RRA, from your party, close to you or close to the president, voted for him. Believe me, Mrs Kolundzija, we are talking about European integration and new values, there are no new values unless Serbia really gets a public service, a public service that will open those issues that this servant of all regimes, from Mira Markovic to Boris Tadic, is in no condition. I'm not talking about crime and corruption. There'll be a very soon time for that. Now I'm just talking political. Biden's not coming to the Assembly, not because he's doing this. Biden won't come to the Assembly because this assembly of yours has been humiliated for months, broken down. This is where democracy and parliamentaryism are broken down, and the best evidence is that this man who doesn't allow questions to be opened, who does other things that other authorities are responsible for, but I'm only talking about valuable courts, man... You've allowed the RRA to choose a board of directors that is completely under the control of what we call the creator of the crime policy. The criminals are tried in The Hague, but those who have created this policy live; one is very old, and it controls because it knows that freedom and open public service that would promote truly European ideas is not in the interest of this crime policy. And that's your biggest regret, because of this manipulation and a waste of time around all the control you want to carry on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19566	Thank you. Mr. Shami, replica. Here you go. You'll have to do it again, something didn't... Just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19567	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ostojić certainly knows that there are only two types of journalism – professionally and unprofessionally. The Democratic Party of Serbia has, since its existence, advocated not some particular party journalism, but professional journalism. One of the proofs of such a thing is that everything I said today at the expense of RRA and professional journalism I said a year and a half ago, so at the time my party was in power. In one thing, Mr. Ostojić is right. I was talking about public service because I want Serbia to have a public service, and I admit I was wrong, we don't have a public service, we have something called RTS. I could agree that the board of directors, who, at the same time, chose who he chose as chief of something that should be a public service, of course, was wrong, which doesn't mean it can't be fixed. But I'm afraid, Mr. Ostović, that the problem with the current ruling majority is not the thought of correcting it, because what RTS is doing today is very appropriate to that majority. I don't want to waste your time. I'll say one more thing about professional journalism later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19568	Thank you. The word is by MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19569	Dear People's MPs, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting, as we have already heard many times, have proposed MPs of the ruling coalition to address a practical problem. Two members of the RRA Council were still on the mandate on February 17th and the National Assembly was obliged to initiate a procedure for the election of new members six months before that deadline. However, the insurmountable obstacle to their election has emerged is that the two authorised proposings were unable to agree on what their two candidates are, of which the Assembly elects one. The first authorised promoter to whom this did not go is the associations of broadcasting public texts, journalists' associations, professional associations of film and drama artists, the composers' association. According to the law, they did not reach a common agreement (as if the agreement could be different) and three candidates were on their list. Another authorised promoter who has also not reached the list of two is NGOs, associations of citizens whom, by the way, there are thousands, more specifically, I think we can hardly even determine how many of these associations are. They didn't reach a common agreement either. And they have more than two candidates. What did the Committee on Culture and Information of the Serbian Parliament do? Under the current law, he has the authority only to establish the correctness of the list and nothing more, although he is also an authorised proponent of three candidates for the RRA Council. To solve this problem, the Committee on Culture, which has no way of forcing this number of legal entities to reach a common agreement, addressed the Ministry of Culture to give authentic interpretation of the Law. The departments, by the way, are not authorized to give authentic interpretations of the law. Only this National Assembly can do that. In the meantime, we have received a large number of applications from the Committee, with various résumés engaged, with different explanations as to why this candidate is the best. But up to two candidates, we couldn't make it. In addition to this response by the Ministry that "only two" can mean two or more, the Committee has continued to seek new solutions, and so we have come to the situation that MPs of the ruling coalition sit down and write one law, namely amending and supplementing the law, third in a row since the adoption of the first law. In my opinion, the Law on Broadcasting clearly requires changes and additions, and essential nature. These supplements that are now in front of us are solving a single problem, which could have been solved in a much simpler way, and that would have been if we had addressed the Assembly directly in the tide, which is the only one authorized to give authentic interpretation of the law. By the logic of things, it's reasonable for me to assume that it's an authentic interpretation that more than two can't get in the way. Team "mandatory two" legislator, i.e. We all wanted to say that we can't get one candidate from an authorized promoter, so we can pick whoever we want, and more than two, if we have three, four, whoever gets most, that's by law, so at least 126, they'll be elected. However, there have been these amendments and additions to the Law, and in my opinion, another damage has been done, and we are going the hard way, more complicated. I've collected new deadlines that come out of amendments and additions to the law and I've seen that if everything goes as right, if all deadlines are met, it'll take at least four more months to get those two new candidates. You can see how much they need to make new proposals, so how much to make available to the public, and their biographies, etc. And that everything goes as soon as possible, that's another four months, which means that the current members of the RRA Council should, in my deep confidence, continue to perform their duties. Changes and additions and that's changed. I don't agree with my colleague Ostojić here. I stood up for it, as we remain MPs until new... With such important bodies, if the Assembly was unable to implement the procedure as the law requires, it was better for me not to rule out the possibility that there is a law, it says – it can stop them from mandate. If it says "it can stop their mandate", it means it doesn't have to. I'd rather interpret it that way - that the existing ones work until they choose new ones. The assembly was supposed to pick new ones in no time, and now we're going this difficult, most complicated and longest way. What I'm still saying is, in principle, I agree with the fact that we've given authority to the Committee on Culture to judge and bring down lists that are larger than two. I agree at all with the idea that the work of the Assembly is much more transferred to committees. In committees, there are people who are experts in a particular area, people who are interested in this area and if we have a different Rules of Procedure, a large part of the work could be done on committees, and the Assembly in the Plenum is more efficient, it works shorter and costs less of its citizens. That's not the case now. I simply can't help but feel that the whole complicated procedure didn't have to be this complicated and that it happened, that the amendment and the addition of the law came because even on that extended list of candidates, and greater than two, no candidate was found who is the ruling coalition. All this work we're doing to find that candidate they want, or those candidates they want, because there's really another reason I can't see. We could have done the job a thousand times by now. I hope that these changes and additions, if adopted, will meet the coalition's request and that we will get candidates from the ruling coalition, or that we will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19570	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19571	I have carefully followed all the debates and many things that have been said do not apply to this request, and I do not think it is appropriate to comment on that in any way. I will stick to what it is about the very text of the law, that is, how from all remarks can be concluded, to the hidden intentions of the promoter who wants to have a representative in the RRA Council. Unfortunately, it's always like that: for every independent body we've chosen here, for every law we've passed to form an independent body, it's always an observation that it's the intention of whoever does it to actually establish a body that will control it as a government and chooses those who will be at will of that authority. Many of these independent institutions have been chosen by such charges. Later, it turned out that those who were really well chosen, who showed that they had accepted the job responsibly did not work at the will of the government, and they often did what their job was, to warn about failures, mistakes, etc. Whether the consequences in the media sphere are the result of RRA's work, it is indeed a topic and I call on MPs to discuss this on the Committee when the report is on the agenda. Is the law in force... One MP said the law should be shut down. Simply, the laws cannot be extinguished; if the assessment that this law is not good and that it regulates an extremely important area in a not good way, the initiative to change the law can be launched. The law can't be shut down. Until we get a new one, this one's in effect. What remains is that we all remain in our position, and this is obvious – we argue that the law did not allow the Committee to complete a job that was not previously done in accordance with the law and that it was therefore necessary to find a way to comply with the law to do this job. So no one can quote any member of the Law that shows that the Committee has such a mandate. So he did not have such a mandate, nor did the congregation have such a mandate. Therefore, we think that the best way to overcome the problem that has arisen is to resolve the issue legally and avoid such a possibility. Is this going to take longer or not... Just to point out that, on the basis of Article 31, The Law on Broadcasting, the president of the Assembly as early as August of the month, therefore, six months before the end of the term of office of two members of the RRA Council, fully respecting the Law on Broadcasting, sent a letter to the proposed legislators asking them to propose their candidates in accordance with the law. From that moment on, the Assembly Committee is doing everything it is in its jurisdiction; therefore, it is considering everything, analysing whether it has been done in accordance with the law, restoring the proposed authority in a situation where the proposal has not arrived in accordance with the law. Therefore, everything that was possible within the limits of the law has been done, and yet we have come to the situation that authorised proposings were not able to comply with the provisions of the Law and that the Committee was at that time in front of the dilemma whether to violate the Law and take over a job that was not authorized by law, or to propose to the National Assembly to unblock this process by amending the Law. We've decided to amend the law. She is minimal. We can discuss whether it is essential to substantially change the law, whether there are provisions that should also suffer changes, however, I have to comment on something. This law, like all other topics, is always an opportunity for political reckoning and political bickering. We don't mind political parties thinking it's part of a political campaign and we don't mind, if there are reasons, criticizing us for what we're doing, and it's very important for us to stick to the fact. Here were completely incorrect charges against the President of the Democratic Party and the President of the Republic, that he was a member of the Board of Directors of Mobtel, and then a member of the Telecom Management Board. That's just not true. Mr. Boris Tadic was on the PTT Management Board and in no way participated in what he was accused of in the process that has been going on since the adoption of the Law on Broadcasting. Indeed, if there are reasons for criticism, we will listen carefully and are ready to do everything we can to correct, in the interest of the citizens, mistakes or failures, but I ask you that, even in the name of the political struggle, you do not speak falsely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19572	Thank you. Replica? Mrs. Stojanovic has a replica. Here you go. You have to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19573	For a short while, I feel that Mrs. Kolundji has been misreading me in one part. I didn't want to say that the Committee on Culture and Information could have done anything else he didn't do. I wanted to say that the Assembly of Pleu was once able to interpret that famous term "must be two". My waist is language, is it mandatory two, exactly two or two or more? We could vote here, yes, it's mandatory two is two, and then we could go to this whole complicated... Or we could vote two and more and then pick a new member very quickly. This leads me to suspect that there are other motives in the background, that even among the three candidates there are not those who satisfy the ruling coalition's wishes, which is such an important and powerful body as the RRA Council has put into a situation that it can be blocked in its work. Two have not been chosen and will not be selected for another four months, one should be chosen soon; so if someone gets sick or, God forbid, for other reasons, we block the body. There was a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19574	Thank you. Mr. Ilic is replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19575	I'll use those ten minutes later, when the speakers are done. I wanted a replica of Mrs. Kolundjia. It is true that Mr. Boris Tadic was the chairman of the PTT Management Board. PTT is the founder of Telekom and Mobtel and PTT, the Management Board, then led the policy of these two companies, no matter what. Until the sale, PTT was doing his job as a central authority, and as founder of the Post Office Savings and, of course, Telekom. PTT led a complete policy and allowed cable operators to enter Serbia completely free of charge when they entered every home of Soros and the team; so they entered and now they can use the internet, fixed telephony, mobile phone, etc. So, I'll say in my ten minutes the rest, but I just wanted to say this for the sake of the truth, for the record. Until recently, until the sale of these companies, and day-to-day the PTT Management Board is the parent board of directors in telecommunications, traffic and connections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19576	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go. Just sign in so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19577	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first a few words about these amendments and additions to the Law. No matter what the head of the ruling majority's wish to convince us, it's very clear what happened. In addition to directly disrupting the work of the RRA Council, this move the ruling majority decided on has several other bad effects, which may not be visible at first sight. The first is to continue to destroy the authority of the so-called. An independent body or an agency designed as an independent body of top authority that will through its expertise and independence take care of Serbia's media space. This way, that authority goes down further. From the very beginning, the agency has been monitored, at the very least, by controversy, and certainly by a large media noise rising around every move. This way doesn't help. On the other hand, this change directly narrows down the space for the independence of that body. So that the change here is such that it allows Serbian Parliament MPs to plead, if there are more than two candidates, about all candidates... These amendments and additions to the law provide the possibility for the ruling majority to choose two, however many candidates there are, and then, at the plenary of the Assembly on those two, already selected, which passed through the first filter, the Assembly further declares. That's a bit of a grudge. However, what is essential, and that was clear from the discussions on the Committee, from everything my colleagues said, is that none of the candidates responded to the ruling coalition. Therefore, by choosing between two ways he will act, the Committee decided, in the opinion of all of us, to break the law, to annul the competition and to initiate the procedure of amending and supplementing the law. You know what, in our opinion, it was much more logical that, regardless of there are more candidates, the Assembly in the tribe pleads on these several candidates, than that the Committee takes its own right, which, by law, has no right, to annul the already existing competition and initiate the procedure of amending the law. Unlike my colleagues, since I have been working on this subject since 2000, I cannot blame Mrs. Kolundji or any MP of the ruling majority. It is about informal groups affecting Serbia's media space. Knowing that, in time, we warned them that the mandate of members of the Council was due, however, nothing was done, probably to maintain the existing situation. This law, as you yourself said, is a good reason to talk about a subject that is crucial in the development of democracy in our society. That subject can have one, I say, subtitled in terms of a folk proverb, which is – an old servant, the best servant. I'll remind you that since October 5th, democratic changes, not coup, have worked with the media. At that time, over 300 TV stations and over 1,000 radio stations existed because of the repressive regime of Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia. None of them had permission. It wasn't clear what kind of permits should exist either. The first decisions that Zoran Djindjic and his government made included the removal of the RTS Management Board and the shift of directors. I'll remind you, many of you were MPs back then, then it was decided to take one path that was opposite of what we heard here today was good. Instead of the state managing the media and the government having responsibility for what the media are doing, it was then decided to move towards the formation of an independent body that will handle the area, such as in all civilized European Union countries. As a first step, a task force was formed to write the first draft of this law. On the other hand, the government of Zoran Djindjic has placed, up to one, independent intellectuals on the RTS Management Board. At that time, at the head of the Management Board he was not a party hearer, but Mr. Mijač, as the Director General; a non-party and non-partisan personality was elected, even close to us, it was Mr. Alexander Churchvenjakov. At the same time, the process of reforming this set of media laws was parallel, a working group was formed, etc. During 2003, the first Broadcasting Council was elected, with many problems, a lot of resistance, a lot of media noise, and then the whole idea began. The government of Vojislav Kostunica (now we have heard that they understand it was a mistake) took advantage of March 17th to appoint former JUL Minister Aleksandar Tijanic, everyone's servant as RTS director, at that point directly destroying the Broadcasting Law. He was first placed on that post by the Law on Public Enterprises, if I'm not mistaken. The law was then broken, and since then, this man, who is a servant of all regimes, who is one of Serbia's greatest Halls in the media sphere, is cheerful and clothes the media scene of Serbia. Instead of being later committed by the Democratic Party, for example, by the government, because of the text "If Djindjic survives, Serbia will not"... That's what he wrote, the titled text was written by a war criminal and a hoarder, Aleksandar Tijanic, a servant of all regimes. Instead of replacing him immediately upon coming to power, as the procedure in which he was elected is a violation of the law, he receives the support of the Democratic Party. Today, the Democratic Party sees its associate in it. Thanks to the ruling majority's support, it stands as Serbia's Director General Radio-Television, with it working in every way against the Broadcasting Law. There's no way RTS is a public service. Public service must have two basic functions. The first is not to finance from the budget, which is why a subscription was introduced, so that the finance minister would not have an impact on RTS's work. Gentlemen, that's why the subscription was introduced. Today, for the fourth year in a row, RTS has been financed in parallel from the budget and plus has received a subscription. The proof that this man, the servant of every regime, Aleksandr Tijanic, is interested only in money is his neglect of all public service functions, which are regularly reported by the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which is available to me and to all of you, in which it is claimed that of the nine basic functions that the public service should have fulfilled so far he has failed to meet any of them. It is the basis for the shift of the servant of every regime, Aleksandar Tijanic. Instead... (President: Time. Excuse me, if I may have another sentence, if that's all right? You can, of course, have another one. ) Instead, it still affects the work of parliament today. He determines how long the congregation will pass, when not, whether the MPs are decent or not, a man who has a hippo horse head in his office instead of a mirror. There, so much about it, and I think that's the topic we need to talk about today, not these two members of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19578	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word, as a representative of the motionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19579	I really don't want to argue with you right now about your views on what a public service is and what its director is. I think that's the subject to be dealt with by the Assembly Committee. I think that's where the subject should be opened. We know that, under the law, the government does not elect a director, precisely by respecting the principle by which the Law was adopted, to separate itself from politics and authorities, so that this public service is as independent as possible. So we know that the government can neither make nor choose. The Republic Broadcasting Agency shall elect the Management Board of RTS and the Management Board shall elect the Director under the law provided for in the procedure. Of course, there is a reverse procedure, if there are reasons to reverse the procedure. I think it's a topic, not that the government should, as a first step, have replaced the director of the public service, because it simply isn't, or unfortunately not so under the law in its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19580	Mr. Andric has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19581	According to the Rules of Procedure, this is a misreading, I'm not sure and I apologize, but I think it's Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Only one thing, Mrs. Kolundjia -- it's not our attitudes, it's an important difference. So it's not our view of whether it's a public service or not. I will tell you again, there is a regular report that the RRA is working on, concerning all aspects of the work of the media sphere in Serbia, and one of them is a public service. For months, these reports indicate that public service has failed to perform any of the nine basic functions. If you can't influence it, here, start the campaign to influence the servant of everyone's regime, Aleksandr Tianic, and ask him to resign. I'll give you support, no matter who's next. Run a procedure for reviewing the responsibility in this; start a budget inspection to determine the spending of money for the Eurovision organised in Belgrade, run those things. It is not a man who is interested in politics, it is a man who has received a new jeep from Bogoljub Karic and has betrayed him the next day. So it's a man who's interested in money. That's why manipulations are the reason he's here. On the one hand, he responds to each ruling majority because he is not interested in politics, and he serves each regime with equal will. At one point, his best friend Curuvija is killed, and in the next, he signs the book Mira Markovic. Then he spits on Djindjic the scariest thing in the world, after he's dead, defends him. Then now he spits on Kostunica, even though he is because of Kostunica what he is today. So it's a man who's only interested in money and manipulations of these series, so just money and manipulation. Run any procedure. Send any inspection and you'll see that everything we're saying is true. If that's not the way, there's another way. These are RRA reports on fulfilling functions. It's simple, that's right. He's the most important distraction. This law that we're adopting today will be held in that place for at least six months; these amendments to the law, initiating procedures, changing. This Republican Broadcasting Agency, everyone agrees that there are many problems in its work, is not perfect, but is not a problem in it, but is a problem in the ruling majority that does not leave space for it – neither at the time it was formed, nor at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, one and the other, nor today. Don't, these people may even try to do the best they can, but they don't have the space for this kind of thing. Each of them is very clear that they can't do what they think they need to do, but they have to ask for an opinion. When they ask for an opinion, we ask you to give your opinion that Alexander Tijanić should be relieved. Now, at least do something good for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19582	Mr. Ostojić answered for the word, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19583	Ivan came forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I answered for a replica. Mrs Kolundžija, the government of Vojislav Kostunica broke the law for the first time in 2004 and appointed Tijanic as director, but then you... For it was not chosen by the Governing Board, but named by the Law of Public Enterprises. Until then, he was a media adviser to Vojislav Kostunica, a man who did what he did, as Ivan mentioned. Later you legalized him, inherited him from them, chose him. I'm sorry, it wasn't the Management Board that elected Director Tijanic in 2006, but Tijanic chose the Management Board to choose him. And you and I know it, and we know whose friends are there, from Mr. Markovic through Slava Djukić. These are your representatives on the board of directors, and others' friends and relatives, I mean Mr. Cosic. You put them there and they raised their hands for Tianic. You chose Tijanic and kept him still, despite what people in the house say he does. I'm not a cop, I'm an MP. You don't listen to what people say about money there, we're not talking politics now, we're listening to money, but it's going to come on the agenda, so at least on the board. If you want to help us, help us, and if you don't, they'll push that LDP. Remember, this year we agreed to support you for European laws, two parliamentary groups. Do you remember? Did we then say, when we negotiated to support you in Belgrade so as not to get worse, that freedom of the media is one of our priorities? Did we talk about Tianic then? Did you promise us? Yes, it is. What's the problem? The problem is, as Ivan says, it's not up to you, someone more powerful is protecting him. That more powerful is certainly the president of your party, not the state, but the party, because the president of your party is much more powerful than the president of the state. The president of your party has much more power than the president of the party, but as president of the state. The president of the state, it's like that, more or less, and the president of the party is powerful. Now, you know who his advisors are, you know that the money from public enterprises is being poured into the Vucic's newspaper, which is a boranium compared to the money in RTS. You must understand that this harms you and the president of your party and thus to Serbia as a whole. That's why we're appealing to do something. You have indeed preserved this Management Board, which is why Tijanic cannot be replaced by Tijanic, and the Management Board chooses the RRA and now we have a preserved RRA and that is why we link it to it. Let's go backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19584	Mr Milan Avramović has the word. You've got 22 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Nado Kolundjia, when I called on the Broadcasting Agency to propose that this law be abolished, I meant to put out of force. I apologize for the terminology, but this termology kind of got into my ears while I listened to the Deputy Prime Minister (and what was already) Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who called on citizens to propose which laws to abolish or, in translation, to put out force, from those who are currently in power and who are only in the congregation procedure, so even if I was wrong, I gave the reason why it happened. The point is that the truth must come out, whether individuals like it or not, and that the representation of some political parties in the media, specifically my political party, from 3 to 5% of the total media space and from 80% of how many parties have the ruling majority. As a result, small broadcasters or those who broadcast fewer political shows were hit by the RRA only because they did not want to be politically similar and obedient, in order to help the ruling majority in some things. An example of this is a 40% bill per year more for local broadcasters than is foreseen for the rental of frequencies. So it opens up the possibility of robbing small broadcasters and giving privileges to large broadcasters, such as, say, Pink TV houses, Avala etc. By suffocating these little emitters, there's a monopoly of the media. It's a dry data and facts that there's evidence. I'll give you one of those evidence. If we take into account the fact that there has been lobbying by the ruling majority, in which I can't mention Radio AS from Novi Sad, in which it is directly known, is the fact that Oliver Dulic has ured that they get 12 frequencies because they exclusively work in the service of the Democratic Party, then my thesis is supported by facts. Here's how it works in stations that didn't get permission, and they haven't been shut down a day or so today, especially in Vojvodina. It only works very well because they pay the charges to the Broadcasting Agency and past the protocol and past the law and in a way that is currently unproven from this assembly speaker. Another big scam is when RATEL on higher quotas than is foreseen by the frequency plan to evaluate some emitters and put them back in a favourable position compared to a small number of emitters. I'll give you another example, since I like to talk to evidence, an example of the SOS channel. The CEO of the SOS channel and the editor-in-chief sent a letter to all Serbian executives, who was answered only by the Citizens' Protector who said there is a possibility that the freedom of the media was violated, as the Citizens' Protector estimates that the conditions for the conduct of this body were met after the complaint was filed, provided for by the provisions of the Law on the Citizens' Protector. So, when we in the Assembly mentioned that the Broadcasting Agency wanted to shut down the SOS channel, in the discussion of changes and additions to the Broadcasting Law, at the same time we received mail data supporting our story and that we were right. Therefore, the haughtiness and non-compliance of the law by the members of the RRA was also recorded by the CEO of the SOS channel. For everything he wrote in this letter he sent me, more specifically to the SRS Group, there is open evidence. This is an abuse of RATEL measurements in which he confirms that the SOS channel is being disturbed by Romanian television, and that the channel is internationally uncoordinated and as such it should not be awarded to broadcasters, and the SOS channel has been allocated. Rescription of RATEL with Romanians, measurement of cable operators, in which they confirm that Romanians are disrupting the SOS channel, a cancelled contract with sponsors due to interference, etc. So the SOS channel has competed, won according to the law of the frequency, against interference by Romanian. Now, based on these interferences, the SOS channel's activity has been reduced. Because of this reduced activity, which they received legally, a judicial dispute is being conducted and is announced by the Broadcasting Agency that the SOS channel will be shut down, which further affects the financing of the channel. We all know the SOS channel is a sports channel, it has absolutely nothing to do with politics, but some losses are here and presented. Based on the final account, SOS channel's 2007 income was lower than in 2006 by 64 million. In 2008 compared to 2007 for about 80 million. It's a system of choking small broadcasters dealing with sports; it's a national treasure. Instead of pushing those broadcasters that got to the frequency legally, we're choking them, because some big TV house, like Pink, has a special section for the sports program. In addition to all this, members of the RRA Council in the paper transfer powers and this irregularity to RATEL, and RATEL says they need to get their license back and get another frequency, like a man bought shoes, like he bought a bike, so it broke down, so let's get it back. So we can't have this kind of approach to small broadcasters, on one side, and in Vojvodina broadcasters who don't even have permission to stay alive because they pay RRA's taxes, which make a nice living and make a budget-filled surplus. So, he says like this -- RATEL asks me to return the broadcasting license that I won in the public competition, for which I prepared for months and paid up front about six million dinars and legally got the frequency. Otherwise, the RRA says it's in the paper that they took my frequency, and I'm still broadcasting the program. So, the RRA tells the second, in practice happens second, and the damage of whether it lasts, even piles. The SOS channel lawyers filed a complaint and initiated a court case over texts in the newspaper that the SOS channel no longer has frequencies and that they were cancelled because of this more broadcasting contracts in 2009, followed by the SOS channel being caused by huge material damage. What happens when an SOS channel gets a verdict in its favor? All this damage will have to be compensated from the state or other broadcasters, i.e. of citizens paying for Serbia's public service. So some facts exist without being able to change them, however much you want to do it. It's an example of an SOS channel, which they want to get permission to, and they didn't allow it to generate income. Because of the cancellation of the contract with business partners, they knowingly brought the SOS channel into a difficult material situation. Obstinateness, disrespect for the law, self-will, impertinence and force of those who set the SOS channel in the same category with broadcasters who did not have permits. Both they, both RATEL and the court have all the paperwork, all relevant data, official RATEL measurement, RTS technical services measurements, RATL correspondence with Romanians, that they also broadcast on the same frequency a programme with a thousand times more power. So whoever has made it possible to use the frequency already used by Romanians with a thousand times the force, it should bear responsibility, not to suffer the consequences of those who have received legal norms, i.e. the competition. He says this: "I sue for more than 100 million and every day that figure is increasing, and that will one day be paid by state, or taxpayers, and not by Council members," said the CEO and editor-in-chief of SOS channels. That's why it's no wonder that by closing down small local broadcasters, because they can't pay 40% higher taxes, the RRA assigns their frequency exclusively to powerful, tycoons and those who can pay and enormous amounts of money to rent the frequency. This makes a vacuum in Serbia's media space so that the ruling majority and individuals, particularly in the pre-election campaign, can rule in favour of developing their own business. So, if we take a review of the financing and financial obligations of broadcasters in the media laws of Serbia and countries in the environment and we take that the Law on Broadcasting, Article 41, determines that only a domestic natural or legal person and that a domestic company in which the founders of a foreign legal entity or natural persons from countries in which it is not possible or not allowed to establish the origin of capital cannot participate in a competition for the award of the programme's broadcasting license... I read in my first presentation what percentage of capital and values in the TV and radio house Studio B, B92 have Americans. Therefore, a maximum of 49% of foreign capital participation in the total capital of the company participating in the competition for the award of the programme's broadcasting license is allowed. Article 52 provides for mandatory documentation that the potential broadcaster is required to submit with the application for a competition. Item 5 of Article 52 provides: projection of planned annual revenue and expenditure with registration, specification and data on the financial potential of the applicant. If we know that the financial potential of individual broadcasters is weak, that it is purely commercial, we have come into a situation so that we can give these broadcasters access just enough not to get permission, so that their frequency or their competition abuses someone greater. Article 61 refers to the reasons for the termination of the issue permit before the expiry of time. The 10th position says – if a foreign legal person who is not authorised or not authorised to establish the origin of the founding capital appears as one of the founders of the broadcaster after the authorisation is issued. So, the purely said members that it doesn't matter where the money came from, that it doesn't matter who is going to compete, that it doesn't matter how they compete, it's only important that the money is taken and the budget is charged. The members of 80 and 84 deal with the sources of funding of public broadcasting services. So, when we look at how it works in Croatia, in the law on electronic media, as they say, the financing of broadcasters is not explicitly mentioned, except indirectly in the chapter on non-profit television programs, where it is determined that profits from their activity should not be used only to improve their own activity and to pay employees in non-profit radios or TV stations cannot exceed the salary level of employees in other public institutions of the Republic. How's Montenegro? The Law on Broadcasting provides for a way to distribute money from a TV subscription and fees for a receiver in a car, which is distributed: 75% to the republican public broadcasting services (i.e. Montenegro's radio-television, according to 10% of the funds, aid agencies for local public radio services and commercial stations and 5% of the broadcasting agency. This is the broadcasting agency, i.e. The advice has too much income compared to the countries in the environment. What is recorded in BiH - in Article 10. The Communication Law generally mentions that when deciding on the allocation of frequencies, the Agency's advice will take care of the economic power of the applicant, as well as its experience in the field of telecommunications. The law doesn't deal with financing issues any further. Romania's audio-visual law does not contain provisions on the financing of mass media, as evidence of money and capital does not need to be given when competing. It is only stated that commercial companies, such as more and more, cannot appear to obtain a licence, in which more than 10% of the capital or more than 10% of the voting rights are held by those who have been convicted. In Slovenia, the Mas-media law covers written and electronic media and there is a division of national public service (Radio TV Slovenia), local, regional, student, non-profit and special, of particular cultural importance, radio and TV stations. The only thing that exists in the law, and with regard to the availability of money in these media, is that the profits of student and non-profit broadcasters must, if there is, be spent on carrying out activities that are in line with their founding act. So the policy run in Serbia, related to media space, is completely different. Now there is one concern – what will Zeljko Mitrovica convince MPs, money or arguments? What will Zeljko Mitrovic justify running for council members of some of his tycoons? So, I can quote, Mrs. Kolundjia, one of your statements that you say is unacceptable that an individual, in order to protect his interests, announce lobbying in parliament, what does a journalist say – what about the people of the shadow who mark Serbia's media space? You don't have an answer. So, Zeljko Mitrovic, the owner of TV Pink, announced that he would inform all 250 MPs of the Serbian parliament about the shortcomings and the adverse impact of the new law on illicit media concentration on media development, so as not to vote for its adoption, MPs welcomed with skepticism, which is quite natural. But it is also natural to see what abuses are made by those who use this mess or chaos in Serbia's media space most. Or, a statement by Hope Kolundzija, I quote: "If Zeljko Mitrovic or anyone else wants to criticise the law and propose other solutions, then that's okay, then it's good lobbying. If he says - don't vote, here are 5,000 euros, then it's broken. You should have," imagine, "when he announced it, he asked what he was going to convince the MPs. "The statements and other members of the political parties participating in parliament are similar. So the new law should disable monopolies, Nebojsa Bradic, the culture minister, explained, which rejected remarks that the new law would prevent media development. So, if we consider that Željko Mitrovic bought a piece of TV "Avala" and that as a physical face, says close to Mitrovica's associates, he entered "Avala" not to lead it, but to help a friend, Danko Djindjic, who owns this television... and the clear reports I read at the beginning, which say what broadcasters are in the course of pre-election campaigns the best pattern, how they are used using the monopoly and how they are abused – money, shopping, asphyxiation and the spread of large... After a three-month legal analysis, the RRA council found that there are no legal obstacles to the recapitalisation of TV "Avala" as a percentage of 4.95% and agreed that Željko Mitrovica as a natural person participates in the change of ownership structures, the RRA said. So after that, the Council made a decision on issuing permits, etc., so I wouldn't be spreading this story now because I have half a minute left. Mrs. Nado Kolundji, the laws can be put out of practice, they can be changed, I address you as an authorised promoter, in the situation where they are solely in the function of citizens who pay these subscriptions and broadcasters in accordance with the law. The moment when citizens do not pay and when it is financed in more favourable conditions than small broadcasters, we can make selections on party and nonpartisan and deal with analysis whether they did well or not. Now, when funding by citizens is double, for cable television and for electricity subscribers, when it is financing twice the picture, quality and tone they receive and the reality of reporting, we cannot conclude that the Republic Broadcasting Agency (and the Council) has done its job correctly to protect Serbia's media space as an independent body. I think I've brought enough evidence to make the most dangerous and powerful weapons of mass destruction of the consciousness and the integrity of a nation are electronic media, but also one big, huge money laundering. That money judge us in many things; do not let that money judge through electronic media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19586	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19587	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Broadcasting Law should bring some newspapers into operation by this regulatory agency. In fact, it was introduced several years ago with the task of setting up a media space in Serbia by legally assigning frequencies to individual media houses, for which they will compete according to certain rules that the agency prescribes, and that the state will rent their media space through the Agency, or sell to media houses, in order to have certain revenues because media houses use that media space, or frequencies. Also, the task of the Broadcasting Law was that a large number of media that existed in Serbia over the previous years would be reduced to one normal measure and that all these media under equal conditions could do so on the market, that for this service they provide they could earn money on the market, maintain themselves and provide objective image and objective information about events in a particular region or whole country. Are all these functions and roles that were intended for this regulatory agency really fulfilled and what is Serbia's media image today? Following competitions for the assignment of frequencies, various media houses that meet these conditions appeared in certain regions, there were rigorous criteria for who to report for frequency, according to a certain procedure, and not a small number of media houses that received frequencies on the political line or on political weighting. But let's not go into that space, see what happens next. In the case of the professor. We heard in the opening show this morning that most of the media outlets that have regional frequencies have a request from the RRA to pay off the default debt to use frequencies or they will be shut down. Are these fees realistically set, are they well balanced and can these media houses cover their real costs, make profits on the market, provide objective information to citizens and pay what they owe to the state for the use of frequencies? Already six media outlets on Belgrade's territory, which is considered Serbia's financial centre, cannot meet their financial obligations to the state and are threatening to confiscate frequencies. Only one can assume the situation of regional media in other parts of Serbia. I will give an example of the media working on the territory of the southern region, a territory covered by Toplički, Nisavski, Pirotski, Jablanski and Pcinj district, where the frequencies received three media houses that are due annually to allocate twelve million in compensation to the Radiodifuse Agency, plus about two and a half million per year in compensation to RATL. Every media house of regional character, in order to be serious, to have an information programme, to have its own production and to justify the role of regional media, must have a minimum of 50 - 60 employees in order to achieve that function. Also, in order to achieve a regional media function, the media house must have its own or rented transmitters on a particular territory. When all of this is calculated, the minimum costs for the functioning of one media house in a particular territory (in particular I am talking about the territory of the southern region) are between four and five million per month. Imagine that each media house generates five million per month on the territory of the Southeast region, so Nis, Leskovac, Pirot, Vranje, Prokuplje, from the economy that died long ago in those regions, to pay the state, to pay the workers, and to be completely objective and to give timely information to the citizens. Of course it's almost impossible and, of course, because of such a situation, because of the so much pressure of the state, that media house is literally ahead of the shut-down. Who does that suit? Of course, such a situation abuses power and it suits the development of events, especially in the last year since the economy has been in full stagnation and fall due to the economic crisis, because, on the one hand, the RRA is sending warnings that debts are being paid to the state, otherwise the media will be shut down and the frequencies will be taken away; on the other hand, these media houses have to find alternative sources of funding to cover the basic costs, i.e. in order to produce the programme, to pay the employees and to pay the state what they owe. Can they manage the market? Very difficult. If the Belgrade media couldn't make profits on the market and pay taxes to the state, how do they expect the media in other regions, especially the poorest ones, to do the same? The only way to survive on the market is to beg the ruling structures to "supply" some big sponsor (is to know who the big sponsors are and who controls money in the state) or that through state authorities, state companies get the opportunity to advertise on these media, to get enough money to pay taxes and pay those who work on television. What happens in that second case, if they have to turn around, as many media houses do not hide that they already have to, the ruling structures, or you? Of course, as an opposite, they will have to provide an unobstructed picture, which, unfortunately, today in Serbia is a fact. Today you can hear a lot on many media about what the government does well, but very little or almost nothing about what needs to be done and not working. It is a price that Serbian citizens must pay, because the current government has combined three things: it has brought together money, the state, which it has identified with itself, and the media, which must be humble in order to survive the market at all, because otherwise they will blackmail them into paying for the contributions the state has prescribed. So you have a dark picture of Serbia, which cannot provide citizens with objective information about what is going on, but the reality is being manufactured by the media having to return the favor due to its survival on the market. This situation cannot be changed, nor can it be resolved by these amendments to the law. I'm afraid that problem will only deepen further. We are protesting this media darkness in Serbia because it leads to dictatorship; joining money, media and politics can only lead us where non-democratic states were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19588	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and she is the last to be reported on the list. Please register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19589	It seems that in the Serbian congregation, it does not apply to the famous Syntagma "Everything is flowing, everything is changing". Heraklit would be surprised, and we're not surprised. Today we are working on the agenda as if nothing had happened, though, visiting is a great friend of the ruling party, Mr. Joe Biden, and we have come a little slowly to the Assembly, because it was meant to pass through these streets, especially through the street of Prince Milos who looks like a ghetto at a time of Nazi occupation. It's all over the yellow strips, however, of the JKP Belgrade companies. The officers properly deployed stand by these scrawny tents, with containers; they cannot pass through parks, stand by the lampposts and probably keep those garbage cans, so that nothing can be found there, and in doing so they have facial expressions and commentary that they prefer to bring exactly this poster that the colleagues in the SRS have shown. It's all true. Personally, and the representatives of the opposition, it is quite a shame that a man who said: "I pressured President Clinton to start air strikes on Serbian military positions as well as on Belgrade. I gave speeches to move on, as public opinion in Europe was against Milosevic. But it was easy for me to talk, Clinton was the one to take the attack, and he did it. In March 1999, I submitted a resolution, authorized by the president, to take all necessary measures to stop Milosevic's ethnic cleansing of Kosovo. At Clinton's decision to operate, NATO launched a bombing of Serbian targets in 1999. On the first day of bombing, Republican criticism at Clinton's expense was defeated, but in the 78 days of the Clinton campaign, he never wavered in public. I once got worried about his decision. Clinton asked – what would you say if I stopped the bombing? I answered him – I would call a press conference and announce that you did not keep your promise. Don't give in. I really have no idea," says Mr. Joseph, "has my advice affected Clinton in any way, but he hasn't stopped the bombing. He went on with the pressure and it paid off." It's a very interesting statement from one who comes to the so-called today. a working and friendly visit to Serbian authorities. Since we are already talking about changes to the Law on Broadcasting, whose service is what is called a public service, RTS, it also shows the fact that a statement byden's cabinet at the RTS site at 12.42 was put on the site that he will attend the session of the Serbian Parliament today. Our chairman said she wasn't informed about it. So the real question is, who's lying here, is he lying to a public service whose lie we're used to? How can public service deliver a statement from Biden's office, and what is this really about; what is this attitude towards the Assembly and the President of the Assembly? However, as things stand, since it is almost two hours, Biden will not set foot – and that is one small taste of victory – only in the Serbian parliament on this Balkan tour. But just in case, I brought the appropriate equipment to greet Mr. Beyden. It's no accident that the shoes are red. They associate with Kosovo's Christmases and bear a very clear symbolism for someone who has been sponsoring human organs trafficking. (The national emissary Alexandra Jankovic holds in the hand of red shoes. ) As for these cosmetic amendments to the law, as New Serbia President Velimir Ilic noted well, they are nothing but the legalisation of the disastrous situation in Serbia's media space. The national frequency was obtained by media that function as party rather than civic interests. Plus, they charge the subscription, and they "break" up from commercials. A major protest by Serbian NGOs, NS and DSS outside the "Russian Emperor" was held yesterday at 12:00. The fact that the protest had no way to announce itself, because for that kind of information there is no media permeability, not by misery. But the way it was shown, and at the public service, which is advertised under the slogan "Your right to know everything", it's really the top. "Tv Bastille" was a little baby for this Neo-Tv Bastille. There's been a report from the joint meeting for the entire seven seconds. The speech by Slobodan Samardzic, the current National MP, former Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, a university professor, was not worth the attention of those who worship "460 hours of wedding" in Gilas' production. During the speech of the deputy head of the NS Parliamentary Group, Miroslav Markicevic, in the first five minutes of the transfer, had some colour because the camera was sheltered by someone's body. Today we mention how often during these transmissions, the first few minutes of the camera wanders, because, behold, it can't focus exactly on opposition MPs. But all of this aside, the real function of public service is the education of the population, i.e. the production and broadcasting of content that is not commercial, scientific, cultural and children's programme. I just spoke to my LDP colleague, Professor. Žarko Korac about the absence of a real and educational children's programme. Long before the Belgrade Television became a public service, we ran the Sunday show dealing with children's problems, advisory work with them, their professors, teachers, parents, with a serious analysis of the content that will be recommended and presented in the educational programme. The show was cut off in the early 1990s and so far there is no similar content, although the public service has such a obligation. He has an obligation to broadcast his own children's education program. Such emissions and such a programme are a team that needs more than the 1990s, the problems of children and young people are intensified in both quantitative and qualitative terms. But who cares about children and young people when there's a huge amount of money for the rights of sports events, the University and now at the end of the "bideniade". It is a similar situation in other media such as the so-called A commercial character, where we can look at politicians in reality shows, a sadomasochist show of the type "The Moment of Truth", an exhibitionist and a swingr of the promotional "I Change a Woman" or "Look at Mom, Choose a Daughter", cartoon films about Dealers in which the child's mother says the following threat: "If you're not good, I'll bring you back to Serbia". Last night, on a local TV, "Mir" in Leposavic, Peter Feith, who urged Serbs to enter the institutions of the state of Kosovo, co-operated with the Thaci government because it was an agreement with the Serbian government. He represented views that are directly contrary to even the official views of the Serbian government. When our bitter countrymen showed up in front of TV "Mir", the owner of Nenad Radosavljevic, it turned out that the show with Faith was recorded secretly the night before, and broadcast last night as reportedly live guesting. The TV, famous for anti-Serbian politics, even political views that oppose the position of Serbia's foreign minister, also received a frequency from the Broadcasting Agency, which is also a financially privileged position. In an unfavourable position are only representatives of local televisions gathered at the Serbian Network association, which have not directly closed the door, but have been imposed on them by such force on the villa that they are in a position to shut themselves because of incredible financial demands. Instead of making fundamental changes to the Law on Broadcasting, the ruling majority now offers "technicals", motivated by the failure to actually push candidates and favourites Mr Miljenko Dereta and Mrs Gordan Suša. Since the authorised proposings did not agree on their own, as Mrs Kolundji said, they will be forced to comply with the law. Since 17 February, when two members of the RRA, Slobodan Djuric and Velimir Milosevic's mandate expired, a continuous ping-pong has been going between the Assembly and the Committee on Culture. It is required that the Committee solve the problem instead of the Assembly, we listen to the Committee's philosophical-linguistic analysis of the legislative decree on two candidates necessary, in order to return the ball to the assembly field on 26 February 2009, at the proposal of Svetlana Stojanovic, a member of the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information. Therefore, an authentic interpretation of the Assembly's plenary on Article 1st Article 24 has been requested. The law on broadcasting relating to whether "two candidates" means only two or it can mean more than that. However, I agree with Mr Prokic of the Liberal Democratic Party to amend and supplement this law of technical nature does not solve the RRA problem, and tension continues between the Assembly and the state. It is also clear that the real motive of the ruling majority is that they have failed to put in two more of their candidates and strengthen media democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19590	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? National MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19591	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, at the very end of our debate today, I would like to explain something. We have received laws from the EU in due time, as you have recently brought to parliament 15 laws in a united debate on agriculture; they were adopted during one day in a principle debate and none in the world has succeeded in any parliament, but here we are champions. There, we also received some laws in time that must be adopted. One of those, who brought (and made the government happy) Minister Dinkic and said – there is no credit, there is no IMF, there is nothing until we pass a new law on telecommunications, only one operator Serbia can use, and all the others must tender, sell, and when we sell it, we will make corridors... What happened to Mobtel -- eating the cat money -- went missing during the campaign. The third operator is also missing, no funds, and nothing's finished. A cable TV was introduced in this way, which we heard about today in this debate. Also, it is now a practice, someone has passed some laws from above, you quickly adopt, there is no white Schengen visa, there is no EU. We, what we're going to do, back-to-back-to-back, finish it all, do it and do it, that's what we're going to do, no more studio thinking. That's why things like this happen to us, that's why we're making party organs. Someone said in the debate today – they need to be sent a budget inspection. Budgetary inspection is also a party organ. It's a body appointed by the Ministry of Finance. They control themselves. Who's controlling them? We lost our ability to create a state administration, to bring institutions like parliament back into office; we started hiding behind some boards of directors, behind some bodies. I heard a debate today about the board of directors. The Governing Board reflects the government's relationship with the government, it's on the board of directors. What kind of relationship there is in the government is that in parliament. What the government is up to, parliament realizes by its majority, or the board of directors by its majority. There's no way anything can change. Is it normal for an MP from Užica to vote against the highway to his town? It's normal. It's happening with us. I'd like to ask you, shall we change one? Look at the biographies of members who are proposed, one member, so you'll see who is, so you'll see that we're giving the Agency to someone on the side, like we gave cable television, like we gave telecommunications, the biggest state resource, like we sold two operators and spent the funds, so no one today knows how to say... I remember, when I left the government, there remained 2,260,000,000 euros of unspent money in the register. We gave the election and we gave the minister of finance from the opposing camp to master the register. Money's gone, they're gone, spent. They're gone. Today we read in the press the glad news that Serbia received 800,000 from the International Monetary Fund. I'm asking you now, what are we serving here, who's been discussing three billion borrowings, who's going to take credit for, what's the loan going to, where the tycoons, who can, who's covering the artificial holding of the dinars, where the dinars go from selling these devisors? There are a number of other questions. No one gives those questions to parliament. They're running from us like we have a plague. We discuss here with ourselves. There are no ministers... The finance minister and the economy minister don't come to us anymore, they don't care, they inform us that the money has arrived, that in another month another tranche will come, and next year another. Who could have owed Serbia three billion euros without this parliament giving a befel? Is the contract ratified here? Is the IMF contract ratified in this House? Does any MP know what's in that contract? What are the terms of the contract and what are the obligations of the state, where does that money go? He says he'll get some businessmen. So, the businessmen, the tycoons who refinanced themselves, started building whole buildings, lost the compass, and now we need to be in charge, let them recover, stay on their feet, keep pushing us. Therefore, my lords, we should see what we serve here, who we are and what we are, what decisions we make. Yesterday we're having fun with some peripheral law, someone here thought we'd talk about fascism and start a discussion. Meanwhile, three billion dinars are disappearing. Where are they going? It's a fundamental question for every parliament. I'd be happy to have a debate here about these three billion dinars. Therefore, there is no control. The board of directors, it's hidden, it's a fake. We know that the ruling coalition, although thin totally, makes decisions whatever it wants; the government does the same thing; the board in the same relationship it all ends and all goes peacefully, as it goes. Who controls the government? Does parliament, as the draft budget law, budget rebalancing and everything, have a government control mechanism? Has the National Bank ever accounted for this parliament, lately, on spending, on its borrowing, on determining the course of domestic currency, etc.? No, I don't. It's getting around us. We're here for a job, to be photographed, to see where we sit, how we sit, whether we smile or not, what we eat, what we drink. In no Parliament in Europe, the president of the state and his team, the ruling coalition and government, are criticising so many parliaments elected by them. If it were lucky that we were a real institution, what kind of congregation this Serbia deserves, and in God's name it would come quickly, there would be a trembling of ministers when they came to explain where the money from Mobtel, where the money from the third operator, where the money from the Belgrade Robing Houses. Nothing. We ask, they don't care, they smile; here, you see, the seats for the government are always empty, and we apologize here. That gentleman, not to mention his name, sitting there in TV, he answers when he cuts someone out, throws them out. For God's sake, now we've all become tennis players in Serbia; wherever tennis is played, and in nowhere else, run and stop everything, we all watch tennis. It's now become a hit. I see Tijanic is there among the first, and that is the last thing that Serbs are now... So, games as much as possible. Why is Tijanic playing on every team? Because he combines everyone. Gentlemen, when I was in power, he was working with the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party leaders had key emissions and made fat money with him – "Marriage 48 Hours", "Life in the Village", "The Big Brother House" on B92 and a series of other shows, where the agencies of individual officials earned big money, millions of euros. They're drowning, so they don't touch, he's for all the gold coke. Whoever comes to power, he goes to Sasha's house immediately, says, "Give you yours." It's true, he makes a board of directors who can never change him. Imagine a story, a high school man runs a public service! But, of course, hang that "for Europe's Serbia" in the evening, so someone might reward him for that. Thank you very much and have a good lunch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19592	I'm concluding a principle search and before I can determine... Would you like a word? Do you want a word for the replica or as president? Please register in the electronic system. Here you go. Excuse me, reregister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19593	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, of course I welcome you all, especially I welcome all 12 Members of the ruling majority in the hall. Allow me a few sentences at the end of the debate. I'm sorry that Mrs. Kolundji's law promoter isn't in the O.R., but he'll probably read in a stenogram what I'm about to say. First, the law itself. You know, it's quite certain, I agree with the MPs who pointed out that this law, which has already been changed several times, should still suffer some changes, but it's a matter for another occasion. What is doubtless the spirit of this law, but also similar laws that regulate the work of regulatory bodies, is that there are a number of proposing members of that body. They, therefore, propose, the Assembly, or executive authority, has no effect on whom they will propose, and then the congregation chooses. I'll remind you, not long ago we chose the National Educational Council. There were as many as 12 proposals in some categories, three of which were selected by this congregation. So, does the law have a little silly written "mandatory" in it? Now you've fixed it by throwing out the mandatory, but it's only now that it has to be two. Only after the word "must" be inserted in the word "bar" and then everything would be regulated. So, at least two. The idea is to be more than one. I don't want to get into speculations, which are pretty close to the brain, that the candidates who were after something didn't respond to the ruling majority. I also think that's probably true. But anyway, I don't think the proposed changes are good and they don't solve the problem. There will still be doubts about whether exactly two or at least two. Here, you have an opportunity until we cross over, the Committee has opportunities and opportunities to, instead of throwing out the word "mandatory", write "must be at least two" and then it's all clear. However, today's discussion has been an opportunity to say something about the work of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and I think that the DSS MPs have done so, especially from the point of view that it is actually affecting another important sphere, which is the sphere of Serbia's media space, and that the media is more professional than they are. What the RRA does doesn't contribute to that. The fact that you're going to close 50 TVs, which you're not doing anything to bring order into the cable, starting with making competition and having no monopoly, until you can't let someone else, the owner of cable TV, determine what Serbian citizens are going to watch and what they don't want, are extremely serious issues. I'll be free to make my personal point. I'm afraid the state of professionalism in the media is currently at very low levels. What's more, I'm in the media today, and there's certainly the biggest responsibility of RTS... Serbia's radio-television today is in a professional sense somewhere in the early 1990s. There's no "p" out of professionalism, but that's why there's Javaluk, there's stupidity, there's everything else, there's just no professionalism. However, it may not be good for politicians to discuss professionalism in the media. They can say their position, you can always see it through the prism of some political interest. I think it's a last-minute moment for both the media and the RRA to be declared by the press associations. I call again on both the lovely ladies who run these associations to launch one action, whose goal is not to have this or that medium working for this party or that party, but the goal must be to have media that are highly professional. By prescribing abnormal fees for someone to have a medium at all, I mentioned fees that are ten times higher in Serbia than in Serbia, for example. in Croatia, I would understand that Serbia is ten times richer than Croatia, but it is not – therefore, imposing which no one who wants to work professionally can satisfy... If you add more advertising to that... Ask around about how to get a commercial, who has to give permission to get some serious commercial, ask around; I don't want to mention names, I don't want to mention names, Mr. Krasic. You'll see that the situation is actually much, much worse than what I'm saying here. The Democratic Party of Serbia will certainly not vote in favour of this law, but I advise the Committee to write one amendment and at least after these corrections make it clear whether it is two or at least two. Personally, I think it has to be at least two, so let's make it two, three, five, 55, this assembly will plead as it has already declared itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19594	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his membership rights in 93 wants a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Before we set time for a break, I shall inform the MPs, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working today and after 1800 hours, we will continue to discuss the point that is on the agenda at that time. I'm setting a break. At 3:15 p.m. we will continue working day by search of the 62nd agenda – Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the RRA Council who lives and works in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move to the 62nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a METOCHI MEMBER MEMBER STATE AGENCY For this point of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a candidate for the selection of a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency who lives and works in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, who submitted the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, No 345-1772/09 of 12 May 2009. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information regarding the examination of this proposal. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of Representatives, Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament Group of Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds, and the PUPS Group – six minutes Consent to Article 93. item 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I also inform you that according to this agenda item of the parliamentary group, the following MPs will be: MP Aleksandar Martinovic of the SRS, MP Vladimir Milentijevic of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group. I am opening a search on a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency who lives and works in the territory of the AP KIM. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information Parliament Vesna Marjanović, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) In the electronic system, MP Vladimir Milentijevic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, was reported. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19596	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for a member of the Council of this agency that lives and works in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, where Zivojin Rakočević of Gracanica is proposed, is quite fine, because the procedure requires that a representative of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the territory of KIM be proposed and elected. I don't have anything personal against the proposed candidate, and it's probably in line with the procedure for his election, but I'd like to mention something that might be very important. Perhaps with this proposal from the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the Society of Journalists of Kosovo and Metohija, where counterpart Zivojin Rakocevic is proposed as a member of the RRA Council, there should also be an opinion from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I have nothing personal against the proposed candidate, as it concerns the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and probably lives and works in Kosovo and Metohija, however, I believe it is another formality and the impression that the Republic of Serbia respects the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The formality is, as is the majority of the assembly in this higher house, as well as the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Formality, because the Republic of Serbia has not yet recognised KIM's independence, but has apparently raised its hands from its southern province. The Republika Srpska Assembly has held no debate on Kosovo and Metohija since the formation of the assembly's majority. For the agenda, the government proposed only one resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, but it was removed from the agenda because there was no agreement on the realisation or within the ruling coalition, without talking about the national consensus, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee has been convened 14 times since its constitution, and in 80% of the cases it did not have a quorum for work due to the lack of MPs of the ruling coalition, and only once discussed important topics related to Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian Prime Minister, I must repeat, did not visit the AP Kosovo and Metohija during the year of his term. The government of the Republic of Serbia has reduced the budget by 36% compared to 2008. The government also abolished all courts in Kosovo and Metohija, except for one municipal and one basic court; it reduced the Kosovo supplement by 50%, etc. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and MPs of the ruling coalition boycott the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, although the government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised Kosovo and Metohija municipalities by its regulation. The Kosovo and Metohija municipalities' assembly held eight sessions. These sessions were attended by none of the representatives of the Council of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, except for one session, where State Secretary for Kosovo and Metohija Mr. Zvonimir Stevic attended. None of the members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee from the ruling coalition attended, although among them there are those living in Kosovo and Metohija, and they were invited to attend the assembly session of the municipalities. Why? Because Serbs and non-Albanians seek concrete answers from the Republic of Serbia for many of the problems affecting their survival in Kosovo and Metohija. The Republic of Serbia has no answer to these questions, or it doesn't want to have them, it doesn't matter. All moves are being pulled from one centre, from the cabinet of the president of the Republic of Serbia. None of the other institutions of the Republic of Serbia have the independence to decide on Kosovo and Metohija. The president of the Republic of Serbia accepted the Eulex mission without a decision, and the UNMIK mission on the ground no longer exists. I must repeat again, for who knows which time, which role in Kosovo and Metohija has the Eulex mission. The Eulex mission is tasked with implementing Marty Ahtisaari's plan and creating an independent Kosovo, and it is already on the ground. While the Eulex mission is doing its job, the Republic of Serbia is doing nothing. Serbs and non-Albanians are deceived, confused and left to themselves. The ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, apart from theoretically, practically does not work on the ground, does not co-operate with legally elected representatives of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. Only persons appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia go to Kosovo and Metohija, and they are made up of the ruling coalition. They do not instruct Serbs and non-Albanians to behave in crisis situations, and the crisis situation in Kosovo and Metohija is, unfortunately, more and more. The ministry for Kosovo and Metohija developed a strategy for the sustainable survival and return of Serbs and non-Albanians to Kosovo and Metohija, without providing a single dinar on the occasion. The annual cost of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is 270,000,000 dinars, and the funding provided for the National Investment Plan belonging to Kosovo and Metohija for 2009 is estimated at 185,000 dinars. So, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija has expenses at an annual level of around 270,000,000, and the National Investment Plan 185,000. Out of 185,000, 131,000,000 million were allocated to the municipality of Lešak 70,000,000 dinars. Construction of start-ups, which this ministry has accepted and started financing in 2008, has been suspended in order to halt funding in 2009, and new facilities in Kosovo and Metohija have started. What weighs and hurts us the most, and what panics us, are the secret negotiations of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija with the Eulex mission on very important issues, and that we who live in Kosovo and Metohija know nothing about it. Today's statement that the Republic of Serbia should accept reality in Kosovo and Metohija, which then leads to Kosovo's independence, we Serbs and non-Albanians living in Kosovo and Metohija will never accept. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the ruling coalition of what they are doing, consciously or unconsciously, fully blend into Biden's so-called "Bidenov". the reality and only make the survival and normal lives of Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija more difficult. That is why I demand that the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose amendments to the Law on Ministrys and abolish the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because it serves nothing. I ask the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given the situation in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, to propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to abolish the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija so as not to cost it, because ultimately, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is not in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19597	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in 1991, the opposition then staged protests over the alleged unobstructed display of political reality in Serbia by the then-led team of RTV Belgrade. Today, in 2009, the situation is ten times worse when it comes to the media image created in Serbia and when it comes to opposition political parties, or when it comes to Boris Tadic's regime. Today almost all media with national frequencies are directly or indirectly controlled by the regime. The voice of opposition parties, primarily the voice of the SRS, can hardly reach the Serbian public except from here from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or possibly from some television or radio station that calls us. Boris Tadic's regime wasn't enough. An almost complete parliamentary group was expelled from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to avoid hearing the voice of Serbian radicals about the difficult political, economic and social reality in Serbia. To this end, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and thanks to these changes, the Serbian Parliament has become unique in the world – it is no longer a state and political institution in which it is freely spoken, it is an institution in which you must remain silent. If you are not silent, if you are critics of the Boris Tadic regime, if you say that Joseph Biden is a real war criminal, not Ratko Mladic, then you risk being expelled from parliament or, at the very least, punishment by warning and some fines. Dear Serbian citizens, today the media space in Serbia is largely controlled by one man. The man, of course, comes from the Democratic Party, a party that allegedly has a monopoly on Serbia's introduction into the EU, a party that has become a member of the Socialist International, the party that has since 2000 conducted the most brutal, most monstrous privatisation in Eastern Europe and which has become a party that allegedly advocates social justice overnight. The man, of course, is Dragan Gilas, the current mayor of Belgrade. It is a man who, according to information the SRS has, is more politically powerful and more influential than Boris Tadic himself. That this is how it says that recently, ahead of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2009 Budget Law, Dragan Djilas, mayor of Belgrade, has made it clear to Boris Tadic that he must leave the financial resources of the city of Belgrade, which were projected by the 2009 budget, that no money should be missing in the city register, otherwise, according to Dragan Dilas, he will find some new model who will pretend to be head of state and president of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas is today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you from the Socialist International who are full of the mouth of social justice, the richest or one of the richest people in Serbia, a man who owns at least 16 companies, directly or indirectly, in various forms, with various companies; mainly, his name is passed on as the owner's name in at least 16 media and propaganda houses in Serbia. Dragan Gilas owns the following companies: "Multicom Group", "Multicom Rent", "Bella Team", "Direct Media AD Belgrade", "Direct Media Public Relations Belgrade", "Direct Media DOO Skopje", "Direct Media DOO Podgorica", "Direct Media DoO Sarajevo", "Spark event promotion DOO", "DM marketing international DOO", as you can see, all Serbian names, "Sports ADD DOO", "Big print DOO", "Frendee DOO", "Emotion Production", "Ovation advertising" and one company that is not sure whether it is his, so I won't even read it. Here's the thing with the share of ownership in certain media houses: "Multicom Group", the main firm or parent company, the company for multimedia communications, "Multicom Group DOO Belgrade", address: 13b Antifascist Fight Street, deals with consulting and management of affairs. Otherwise, the company is registered for external trade services. The ownership structure is this: Dragan Djilas – 25%, Milica Delevic-Dilas – 25%, Dragoslav Ilic – 42%, Nebojsa Garić – 8%. Otherwise, before I keep reading, I'm going to make a little explanation for how Mr. Gilas got this much capital. He had another recipe for wealth compared to Bozidar Djelic. Bozidar Djelic came to Serbia after 5 October 2000, allegedly without anything, fell asleep on his aunt's couch and woke up with 11,000,000 euros in the morning. Dragan Gilas was not lucky to sleep on his aunt's couch, but he did something else. He sold jewelry in the Czech Republic, then came to Belgrade, hired at Srdjan Sapera's firm, there acquired some capital, founded his own company, and then, according to the government in Serbia, got clients by assignment, got rich and now owns at least 16 media and propaganda houses in Serbia and one of the richest people in Serbia. Here's the thing with the share of ownership in his companies. It's a branch of this mother's company, it's a property rental business. "Bella team", since 2006, this company is part of its chain of media houses, it is a company for trade and services, the address is Gundulić's Wreath. 3, he deals with consulting and management of affairs. It's registered for foreign trade. The ownership structure is the following: "Multicom Group", which means Dragan Gilas, along with his associates, is 100% owned by this company. "Direct Media AD Belgrade", a marketing and promotional company, 13 Antifascist Fight Street, deals with advertising and propaganda services and, of course, like any other company, is registered for foreign trade. The ownership structure is the following: "Multicom Group", 93%, then Silvana Mandurevic 1%, Jovan Stojanović 1%, Jadranka Drinic 3%, Gojko Gilas 1%, Marija Matic 1%. As you can see, Gilasa has many, it is possible that in this list of names we will also encounter Milovana Gilas. "Direct media public relations Belgrade", address: 13b anti-fascist street, again consulting and business management, registered for foreign trade. Property structure: Direct Media 65%, Nevena Kurtović 35%. This "Direct Media" has a representative office in Skopje, i.e. in Macedonia, Sarajevo, or BiH, and Podgorica, or Montenegro. The ninth company, Spark Event Promotion DOO, a company for marketing and promotional activities, Belgrade, again 13b. As you can see, most companies have this anti-fascist orientation that you stand for and almost all companies are at the same address. It's advertising and propaganda again. I'm sorry, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't think there are any suggestions for this agenda item, so if you could secure your presence. (President: we 121 are proposing. On our behalf today, this is Mrs. Kolundji, who will appear at any moment, but we've stayed here and we've been following you. Here you go. ) Well, personally, I think it would be good if Mrs. Kolundji was present in the O.R. and she could hear this information. But if she has any more important state affairs, if she might have gone to lunch with Mr. Beyden, most kindly, I'm asking you to pass on everything we're saying to her right now. (President: Be assured that she will be informed of everything, but we are there who are very closely following you. Here you go. ) Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović. Therefore, this ninth firm is registered for external trade, i.e. for external trade services. Property structure: "Multicom Group" 60%, certain Nevena Vasojevic 10%, some Ana Rogic 30%. The 10th company DM marketing international DOO Belgrade, again 13b Antifascist Fight Street, as you can see, completely on your anti-fascist fight course, registered for foreign trade, or computer-related activities. Property structure: "Multicom Group" - 100%. Eleven companies owned by Dragan Gilas "Sports ADD", 13b Antifastic Fight Street, accounting and accounting affairs and control operations, tax-related advisory transactions registered for foreign trade. Property structure: "Multicom Group" - 100%. The 12th company "Big Print DOO", a company for the press and graphic services of New Belgrade, this is not an anti-fascist struggle, Djordja Stanojevic No. 4, printing, and it's registered for foreign trade. Property structure: "Multicom Group" 90%, certain Željko Draskovic 10%. Thirteenth firm, "Frendee DOO", is based in Belgrade, Street. Milutina Milankovića 120b, consulting and business management, registered for foreign trade. Property structure: "Multicom Group" 60%, Vladimir Bjelobrk 20% and Isidora Trifunović 20%. The fourteenth firm Dragan Gilas, a man who cannot sleep at night out of concern for Belgraders, "Emotion Production", a consulting company, production of radio and television programmes and advertising and propaganda services, Belgrade, Terrace 43; consulting and business management. Of course, this company is also registered for foreign trade. Property structure: "Multicom Group" 49%, then a certain Goran Stamenkovic 51%. The 15th firm has its headquarters in Belgrade, Bulevar Arsenija Čarnojevica 99/5, is registered for advertising and propaganda services and foreign trade. Property structure: Vladimir Galić 50%, Dragoslav Ilic 25%, Milan Ristic 25%. I'm not going to apostrophe this 16th firm because the percentage of ownership of Dragan Gilas has not been determined until the end. Otherwise, the company is based in Belgrade, Hilandarska 4, deals with advertising and propaganda services and foreign trade. Here's the thing with companies owned by Dragan Gilas, a man fighting for social justice, a man who will help the Roma he has displaced, put ten Roma in one container. It's all in the spirit of anti-fascist struggle. It is no accident that all companies or most of their firms registered at this very address – Belgrade, the 13b Antifascist Fight, in the spirit of Canko's Bill of Law. If you'll allow me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will present a document called "The Lensive Review of the conflict of interest in Serbia's media space". It is a document made up of an information agency from Belgrade -- "Ipres", Belgrade. They tried professionally, or expertly to analyse how the Serbian government, which is channels for political, economic and media monopoly, was fully controlled by the Serbian marketing budget, which amounted to 443,605,000 euros in 2007. The study found a major increase in 2008 and 2009, and this increase was otherwise shown on the National Bank of Serbia site at the end of March 2009. Here, about, what is said in this document, which really sheds objective light on how Dragan Gilas works, how the Democratic Party works and who actually rules the media space of Serbia. When you hear this information, then these amendments to the laws that you have just proposed are completely pointless. It seems you have nothing better to do than to distract the citizens of Serbia with completely pointless amendments to the law, which will not change the media situation in Serbia for ytu either. Serbia's President Boris Tadic's announcement that he would break up, as he said, the crime, economy, judiciary and politics, told members of the government, businessmen, economists and bankers at the Business Forum at Kopalnik in early March, has sparked great attention from the media, parties, both opposition and authorities, institutions, political elites and the whole public. Due to public interest, President Tadic added: "My message to the world of crime is that the state will not give up its obligations, fighting crime in every place. It's a national job of the utmost importance. Every effort by police, investigative authorities and prosecutors has unequivocally testified that since the 1990s, there have been strong influences and connections in that four-angle area. Therefore, anyone who thinks that it is easy, in a year, two, eight or ten, can be deceived by crime, corruption, economy, and justice. I suppose it is not necessary to explain specifically that the economy, the judiciary, and politics have been placed on criminal grounds for a decade. When someone corrupts someone from the state administration, then it's a crime, justice, politics, as it isspring and in the economy, too, when someone's tax evasion or when money has been laundered illegally in the economy in the 1990s, that's why the Expropriation Act was passed. "So, respected gentlemen of the Socialists, when Boris Tadic says that during the 1990s there was a spread of crime, economy, justice and politics and that the whole system was set on criminal grounds, then he in fact beats you indirectly as a coalition partner, because you are the image of those, allegedly dark, 1990s. However, despite the fact that people in business, media and politics immediately supported this action announced by the President of the Republic, many stressed that for the fair implementation of such action, firstly, the disclosure would have to be made by the leaders and members of the Democratic Party and organised crime, as many today believe that people from the ruling party are the most connected in terms of crime and politics – who would say. This quantitative and qualitative analysis of the content of documentation, the testimony of actors and newspaper investigative journalism is a modest contribution to establishing the truth about conflict of interest and the monopoly position of certain individuals in the immediate environment of the President of the Republic and of the President of the DS Boris Tadic. It should also be noted that a monopoly position, conflict of interest has been analysed here... (President: Mr. Martinovic, I apologize, but you must stop now because this time you are not the last on the list of representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups, there are more reported ones, and then you will continue. ) If you allow one small remark, Mr. Milan Avramovic was not the only and last speaker on the previous agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19599	He was the last of those in the O.R. At the very least, you must agree with all representatives, but there are many; Mr Markicevic, so you are again. I think he's Mr. Markicevic now. You're giving the word to Mrs. Jankovic, aren't you? Yeah. Do you, Mrs. Jankovic, agree? As you wish, make a deal. Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19600	As far as I'm concerned, I should be the authorized representative of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group at this point. (President: Excuse me, you are well informed. That's why I had to interrupt the representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Here you go. All right. For the sake of the public and for the citizens of Serbia, I think it is important, when it comes to personal solutions, to present to citizens who are solutions and what qualifications they are, means, biographical data and what the candidates themselves write about themselves, so that we can assess whether this is the best candidate who can be a candidate in the RRA, who lives and works in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, in accordance with the Law on Broadcasting, a proposal was submitted to the Assembly Committee and the Assembly Committee put in the procedure a candidate for a member of the Council living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija Živovina Rakočević from Gracanica. First, I have to read a recommendation from the Society of Journalists of Kosovo and Metohija, which explains: "Zivojin Rakocevic is one of the best media opportunities and needs in the province in the past." It's not exactly what it really means and what it's been, and I'll explain why. He goes on to say, "It has significantly contributed to improving the quality of information, education and media organisation in Serbian language, as well as to uniting media space. The results of this work are the Kosma Network, the association of Kosovo and Metohija radio stations, organised with the support of the OSCE." We know what the situation is about information in our southern province, and this kind of recommendation seems more like an anti-reclave, because I don't know what it means "an important contribution to improving the quality of information, education and organisation of media in Serbian" which, unfortunately, in our southern province, hardly exists. It may be more indicative and significant to read what the candidate in his biography states: Zivojin Rakocevic was born in 1973 in Podgorica. A candidate for Kosovo and Metohija was born in Podgorica. Education – he graduated from the Faculty of Philology in Pristina; he attended postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Philology at the University of Belgrade and passed his exams, reported his master's thesis. He completed several specialist seminars on journalism and media, as well as management in the media; he attended several study seminars abroad under the US International Visit Programme. Whenever a reference is made to several study seminars in America, or seen as a defence minister, such as Mr. Sutanovac, or seen possibly as a candidate for the RRA, which was designed to be quite uniform and allow for serious media blockade. Work experience – editor of the journal "Popis", associate at Radio Pristina since 1994; edited poetry in the literary journal "Stremanja"; worked as an assistant at the Faculty of Philology in Pristina from 1997 to 1998, subject of General Literature; one of the founders and first editor-in-chief of the children's magazine "Li Prince" from Banja Luka in 1999; lecturer at the Radio-Television of Republika Srpska in 1999. We see that man is quite mobile – Podgorica, Pristina, Republika Srpska. He has been the editor-in-chief of Kosovo's Metohijski Radio since January 2000; the president and one of the promoters of the Kosovo Media Association "Cosma Network" (Kosovo and Metohija Radio Station Associations, which represents the new radio informative backbone of isolated Serbian settlements, of course, realised in co-operation with the OSCE); the editor-in-chief of the magazine "Glas South" from Gracanica, and of the media houses with which he collaborated in the country are B 92, Studio B, Fox and, there are also foreign, ATV, France 24, TV 5. What is very interesting is that the winner of the "Milan Pantic" award for investigative journalism and courage in the reporting, related to events during the March 17th 2004, awarded by UNS, NUNS, Evening News and NIP "New Way" from Jagodina. But what is my question and what actually causes and can be the basis for many doubts is what from 2004 to today? This is where the biography ends in 2004. Why investigative journalism stopped especially after the so-called "recognition" of the so-called "recognition" of the so-called "recognition". Independent Kosovo countries? I have another question -- why did the two radios within the Kosovo Media Association call on Serbs to vote when the Serbian government warned our country's compatriots in the southern province not to agree to Shipar propaganda and give legitimacy to those who would later make the first NATO state on Europe's territory? As he reacted in the media sense, since we see that he completed these powerful courses in America and management, on February 17, 2008 on the so-called self-proclaiming so-called. Independent Kosovo countries? Then why does investigative journalism stop and this successful co-operation with the OSCE begin? Otherwise, since he is a declared Christian, it is strange that he has not responded, if he has not already responded to the government's appeal, or to the appeal of the bishops of the Rasko-Prizren Artemia that the vote is not being taken out and does not give legitimacy to the Shiptar terrorists. There's kind of a slight lack of listener, or there's some other kind of political orientation. In what way would this, too, be an important issue, as a member of the RRA that lives and works in the area of Kosovo and Metohija today respond to a statement from the Rasko-Prizrenska diocese coming from Gracanica, where he now lives and works? Here's that statement: US Vice President Joseph Biden plans to visit the High Decani monastery on May 21st 2009. The news was announced by the US Embassy in Pristina. The competent episcope of Raško-Prizren Artemis does not give its blessing to this visit. The US vice president comes to visit Kosovo as an independent state to confirm the violent withdrawal of the part of Serbia's state territory and its lecture to Cypriot terrorists who have unpunishedly committed countless crimes against the Serb people, Serbian property and Serbian religious and cultural heritage. Does Joseph Biden want to confirm with this gesture that the Decan are also an American base in Kosovo and Metohija, like Bondsteel? The High Decani monastery under the current administration has, unfortunately, become known for its work that is at the expense of Serbian interests, placing in a certain sense the bassion of anti-Serb action in Kosovo and Metohija, which this visit also confirms. In order to curb and suppress such action, the Decani monastery, the Episcopal of Artemia, made the mentioned decision. Here is the facsimile and signature of the Raško-prizrenska and Kosovo-metohic diocese diocese. I'm wondering how our proposed candidate would react to this statement right now. In the context of everything I've said so far, I express my reasonable suspicion that it is the best possible candidate from Kosovo and Metohija. I think we should seriously consider what candidates are available, ask our Serb leaders and ask Mark Jaksic, for example, what is his opinion on this and some other candidates, find someone who has graduated from Serbia's schools and who has a degree in one of the Serbian universities, and not some degree in attended courses in the context of international visits to the United States, and really set up a serious candidate who will in a decent way represent the interests of the Serbian state and be in agreement with the official views of his government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19601	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the NS, the SRS and the SPS - JS. The word is Mr. Markicevic. I would ask, since we don't have a written document that Mrs. Jankovic will be authorized to represent us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19602	President-in-Office, in order to discuss the proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the RRA Council on biography and the work of the candidates so far, I would not particularly talk about it, especially because my colleague, Aleksandra Jankovic, spoke very comprehensively. I would use the time I have to talk to you about informing Kosovo and Metohija about how our people live down there. I can say, based on my experience and conversations with people in Kosovo and Metohija, that they are not satisfied with how our media, and I will only talk about one thing, report from Kosovo and Metohija. For the past few days, we have witnessed their heroic struggles in the village of Brdjani, where the bare-handed opposed the so-called. to the international forces that threw tear gas and shock bombs at them. I have an impression, following from my warm and now cold home in the town of Chačka, where I live, that our public, so-called. European media service didn't exactly show the dramaticity of what's going on down there. I don't think that's the first time. In the context of this, my colleague Aleksandra Jankovic voiced her suspicion that a member of the RRA would behave, given the powers the RRA has. Why am I saying all this? Because I'm a little bit bit bit bit bit by the conscience as a MP, not a little bit but a lot, because in 2002 I voted for a TV subscription. I felt and still feel, though, that there should be one television, called me public service, state television, national television, on which our children will be able to track the program as we could when we were children, when we were students, to follow the school programme or the national history of our people. This national history is light, and it is not as some show it; this history is light, both us and our ancestors, and it is not as some of our guests speak. As the public service is now doing, I must publicly say, as far as the NS and the NS Parliament Club are concerned, if it wasn't for the direct transmission of this session, the citizens would have the impression that we're not in the process at all. Whether someone likes it or not, someone says successfully, someone says unsuccessfully, everyone has their own audience and their constituents, those who praise them and those who do, but I can say that I've been an MP for nine years at the NS Parliament Club and that, apart from visiting our president as a minister several times, he's never hosted any NS MP, except recently on the show "Maybe, maybe not." That's not an accident. I will only tell you one example recently – I was almost persecuted in the hallway to make a statement on a topic of the day, for this conversation and my discussion is not at all an important topic, of 30 seconds; and it has been downloaded. So, we in New Serbia are convinced that public service, above all in the information program, there are scissors, large scissors, for parties that will not give up their national programme, such as the NS, for those who are not ashamed of being Serbs, who are not ashamed of what they have said for ten years, who are for Europe, but worthy. We should also have a chance to say at this public service why we have reservations towards this entry into Europe, as the current ruling coalition offers, so let the people judge who is right, let the people vote. Why do we doubt the common sense of our citizens and our people? Let them listen to all the parliamentary groups, of course, relative representation in parliament. I would just remind you that the relationship in parliament is 51% to 49%; the majority here are 126 MPs of the ruling coalition. Does 49% of opposition positions have information emissions on public service? A few years ago, when we were in power, that someone wasn't telling us that we were hypocrites, we started this same topic, but not because of New Serbia, because it was discriminated against, but because of the truth. We think that this truth is needed by citizens, and the ruling coalition is also needed, because it will correct some of its mistakes and better rule, which is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. We were well-intentioned, without a lot of noise and pomp, asking how it's possible that TV subscriptions are paid by citizens who don't have a TV signal at all. They have the will to pay still, then, a few years ago they had this famous TV subscription, and they don't have a TV signal. The answer from RTS was so arrogant and rude that I couldn't believe it. We have been told, "What does it matter?" They pay school taxes and those who have no children. You and such people run Serbia's public service, and they say -- European media service. It's no public service. It's a government service. It's an DS service, and it needs to be said openly and honestly. I wouldn't mind if I were at least a little confident, as a citizen and father of two children, that's good for Serbia. One truth, announced every evening and embellished, is not good for Serbian citizens, is not good for the state, is not good for the ruling party, is not good for the government, is not good for the president of the Republic either. It would be better if public service in information shows heard a little more critical tones about the moment we live and how our people live. The TV subscription is half a pension for 188,000 citizens in this country who have earned their pension fairly, and have received a pension of less than 11,000 dinars. Now the subscription, as far as I know, is 477, or about 500 dinars; when we multiply it by 12 months, it turns out to be more than half a pension. We may still have above-average salaries and others who have far more salaries than we have MPs seem to have that's not some expense. Why don't we let the citizens, you just heard the president of the NS about cable TV, so they can pick the TV they want to pay? Maybe they'll pay for some local TV. Why is it under the law to pay public service if they don't like it, say, "48 hours of wedding"? Why would they pay for a TV that says there's a tycoon on it, which was just said here, 60% of the time, he leased in commercial minutes? Why would all the citizens finance it? Is there any reasonable man here who doesn't know that nearly half the citizens are unhappy with how he lives in this country? Hence, they are dissatisfied with the truth they hear every evening at public service. Furthermore, citizens have learned (and need to know) how much each MP has, how much coffee he drinks, how much his daily is, everything they need to know; and ministers have to give their property card and how much coffee they drink in the government, only we can't know one piece of information, to see the final account, where they've finished that money that citizens pay through a TV subscription. Where can we find out? What document? Let's see what the salaries are on that public service. How are people hired here? Is it possible that the main information emissions run every night by people who are related to members of the government? Do you think the citizens will suffer? Do you know how close you are to hearing pots and pots at the public service and you from the ruling coalition? It's still ringing in my ears, and I'm so ashamed to vote for that TV subscription in 2002. I think it is in the interest of all parties in the ruling coalition, opposition, all MPs here to search and shake this public service, to see what is done there, not to pay attention to the yellow press, not to these elections, nor to those elections, but to them, honestly, openly, correctly and clearly, financially and economically and in any other way, to report to the citizens of Serbia, and we here represent the citizens of Serbia, as they spend that money to which citizens pay that TV subscription. There aren't many countries in the world where TV subscription is paid. Serbia is one of the few, and especially at this economic moment, I have already talked about it, in which most Serbian citizens live. You know, the ones I've been talking about that have pensions below 11,000 dinars, they're the poorest ones who've paid for all the communals, even that TV subscription. Do we have to tell them, as we were saying in time, we know which regime, that they don't pay TV subscription, and then come to them, as for electricity, interest? Or MPs, and the NS will do so very quickly on the streets of all Serbian cities, will invite citizens to a peaceful protest, to declare at the tables whether they are still paying for such a public service and a TV subscription. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19603	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Change it, then it's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19604	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the debate on both the previous agenda and this, since the subject is a certain Zevojin Rakocevic, who is a candidate for a member of the broadcasting council. I have to tell you, it's not nice to talk about a man you don't know. If someone had reason to talk bad about this man, who I know well from my college days, when we were on the opposite sides, maybe I'd have some personal reasons to talk negatively, badly and falsely about that man. If we put all this aside, and remember that fight of his on March 17th, when he was bravely reporting from those uneasy events and putting his head in the bag, I don't think it's right that we're going to have to take this subject and share ourselves in that party principle today, because there's an opposition and now he's criticizing someone for proposing. Mr. Zivojin Rakocevic, as I understand it, went to a competition that was called by the Broadcasting Agency. If it weren't for those like Zivojin Rakocevic, we might not be able to hear anything about the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't say he was the only one and it wouldn't be good if he was the only one. So I'd like to appeal to a man who does his best to hear a voice... I'd like to ask my colleague Krasic... I realize someone's not allowed to talk, so don't come out of the bench, let him answer. I appeal not to talk about a man... If you don't believe me, you can type the name Živojin Rakocevic on the Internet and see everything he reported from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. So I really appeal that it is not nice to talk about a man who came from Montenegro to Pristina to study, left himself in Kosovo and Metohija, married, lives in Caglavica, and indeed reports in a very brave way about the state of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't want to talk about other things. I'd really like to ask you one more time, so first check and talk about the man. And the propo stories of some colleagues about the visit to the Decans, do not miss that the Holy Archaeological Assembly of the Serbian Orthodox Church has annulled the decision of the bishop Artemis. I'd just like to visit, I don't know what this is about, it's just amazing -- the bishop of Artemia, who at one point was good Americans and Germans, so he traveled, so he spat on Serbia, asked for their help, now he doesn't allow and doesn't give a blessing for anyone to come to the Decana monastery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19605	The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19606	Mr. Radenkovic, you're obviously not exactly... (President: Just say what is the basis of the announcement, since... ( b) Replication and misreading what I was saying. So it would be really unusual, Mr. Radenkovic, if 250 of us here knew all the candidates that were proposed. I have no doubt that he went to the candidate contest, which of course still doesn't mean he has to pass automatically in the Assembly. It may be the principle of functioning in your "semaphor" coalition, but this assembly should still vote on the election of candidates. Besides, this isn't personal stuff, it's not a question of whether I know the candidate personally or facelessly. I was given, as an MP, the opportunity to express reasonable doubt about the quality of the proposed candidate. You were talking about March 17th, 2004. Do you know, Mr. Radenkovic, what is today's date and what is the year? It's been five years since. What is this contribution to reporting from Kosovo and Metohija? Either this contribution is inconspicuous for both his countrymen and the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, especially for us, or I may be wrong about it. It's not a personal question. Just because we represent the principle of setting up the best candidate from Kosovo and Metohija, our best countryman, I had to raise legitimate doubts and ask you, since you personally know the man, can you tell me how he defends Kosovo within Serbia from now on, like you or maybe that's different?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19607	Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Replica? I realized they didn't understand each other, and I need to make it clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19608	She mentioned it, she said - Mr. Radenkovic. (President: It is important for the public to make this clarification public this time. We need to make a statement about the candidate and vote. I hope so, President, that I have the right to reply, given that my last name is mentioned, although wrongly mentioned, I am Dejan Radenkovic. Fellow Members of Aleksandra, Kosovo is not defended by you wearing that shirt here that says: Kosovo is Serbia; it does not defend yourself by going down and taking a walk and making a trip and giving some moral support to those people. You have no moral right to talk about those people who live downstairs, who are hard to circulate, to move. Zivojin Rakocevic lives downstairs, according to Kosovo and Metohija. I hope you use the Internet, come in and type in Živojin Rakočević, so chronologically, what he wrote below, what he reported, where he was visiting, on which television, which are his contributions. Don't – now the theme is a member of the radio-delefu agency council, so let's get political points together. It's not good, believe me. When you say something, the people listen, and now the common people will think, "Who knows who this Rakocevic is?" Maybe we've given it a little bit of importance. That's one humble man I know from college. Most of all, I would have reason to speak ill of this man and vote against him because we were on different sides on student days, fighting for some of our student rights; he was on one side, I was on the other, we differed in our opinions about the University of Pristina. So, the man who studied downstairs came from Montenegro, got married downstairs, lives in Caglavica, don't let it get any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19609	You have no right to a replica anymore. Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of commenting on Mr. Živojin Rakočević's character and work, but I am now somewhat intrigued by Mr. Radenkovic's discussion. Turns out we can't comment on the quality of the proposed candidate and we're only here to vote. I'll give you some information regarding the gentleman in question, and you can judge who's funding him and who he's working for. On 13 February 2009, Radio KIM held a donation ceremony for new equipment funded by USAID and implemented by IREX. This equipment will allow better and better quality work of Serbian radio stations in Kosovo and Metohija, all members of the Kosovo Media Association. The main and responsible editor of KIM Radio and the representative of the "Cosma Network", the Kosovo Media Association, Zivojin Rakocevic, said today that the "Cosma Network" has been functioning since 2003. "Besides, I want to thank everyone who has helped us all these years" – and now listen to who – "OEBS, European Agency for Reconstruction, the US Embassy in Pristina, the Norwegian People's Assistance, the Swedish Helsinki Committee. Today we get new equipment, we won't have to fix the devices on the hills and we have another very important opportunity, to join us another five new radio stations," Rakocevic said. US Ambassador to Pristina Tina Kaidanov said this is an important driver for the Serb community, which will benefit directly from the news and information that will be broadcast via the "Cosma Network". A public opinion survey conducted in Kosovo shows that people turn to the radio when they want to hear local news, and the Kosovo Serb community is relying on radio stations in the Kosma network, which, among other things, produce a high-quality daily daily journal at 17.00 hours. This is the kind of effort we want to encourage. Networking technology, which these radio stations are currently receiving, and whose deployment is supported by the US government, will allow them to expand coverage on the ground and reach a larger number of listeners. (SRS emissaries are getting: That's the Serb's real one. ) The US government is pleased to help five radio stations, allowing financial and technical assistance of $37,000 for these radio stations, Kaidanov said. Andrew Clayton, the head of the IREX, also spoke at the ceremony, who said that the "Cosma Network" had done a great job since 2003 in producing a diary broadcast across Kosovo through radio stations that broadcast their programme in Serbian, etc. (SRS emissaries garner it, Martinovic. ) So, behind the gentleman, let's remind ourselves, is the OSCE, the US Embassy in Pristina, the Swedish Helsinki Committee. All the very great friends of the Serb people and institutions fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with the Constitution and Resolution 1244, to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. (Employees of the SRS are getting: you better suggest Peter Faith. ) (President: A colleague from the SRS, 68 minutes is quite a time, schedule it to appear at the time scheduled for a speaker, not to interfere with Mr. Speaker. Well, you throw all the time, it's really not right. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the people, of course, there are far darker personalities in the media area of Serbia than this Mr. Živojin Rakočević. I will continue with this analysis of who is the real master of media space in Serbia. It is, to remind, Dragan Djilas, Belgrade's current mayor, one of the richest people in Serbia, a man who today is political, media and, of course, financially more powerful than Boris Tadic himself. It is seen from this analysis that anyone who builds a media empire as detected by this analysis has such a amount of power and power that at any moment can realise their personal ambitions and desires of every kind and pass over to reality, to the benefit of but also to the harm of their social community, any imagined project of any character and purpose. Thus, owners of Serbia's media space, which implement between 40m euros and 50m euros from the budget, can do whatever they want, even affecting policy making, replacing or ensuing. It is freely said that individual ministries and ministers channel huge sums of money into various campaigns, filling the agencies' funds to pay media favors to the current government, while at the same time targeted, "spinned" ratings, pre-arranged, raise circulations to the most loyal and electronic speakers. I'll read you a list of privileged marketing agencies licensed from the United States and the United Kingdom. It's mostly marketing communications agencies. There are more of them, they all have English names, absolutely none of them have a Serbian name and behind all these marketing agencies are Dragan Gilas, Srdjan Shaper and the people who are from their business network. The total income of these marketing agencies in 2005 was 25,153,000 euros, in 2006, the amount increased significantly - 4.2.90,000 euros, even higher in 2007 - 56,284,000 euros. The rise of the three first-ranked agencies begins with the rise of their owners in the Democratic Party. In 2005, the U.S. Gilas and Shaper enter the top of the Democratic Party, Gilas as director of the National Office, and others as adviser to the president of Serbia for the media. Media agencies owned by Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Saper in 2005 made a profit of 36,676,000 euros, in 2006 an incredible 143,128,000 euros and in 2007 a little less - 138,582,000 euros. The Pi-ar agency has no Serbian name again. I will not deliberately bother Serbian citizens with these English names, but it is interesting that the revenues made by these pi-ar agencies: in 2005, the 1,482,000 euros increased again, nearly 3,000,000 euros and in 2007, again, nearly 5,000 euros. The production agencies behind which Dragan Djilas and Srdjan Saper are making revenues in 2005 of 5,000 euros, in 2006 over 11,000,000 euros and in 2007 over 17,000,000 euros. Market and public opinion research agencies that stand behind Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Saper in 2005 generate an income of 4.5m euros, nearly 8,000,000 euros and 10,000 euros in 2007. The agency for external advertising, neither has a Serbian name – in 2005 income in the euro is more than 7,000,000 euros, in 2006, almost 11,000,000 euros and in 2007 more than 22,000,000 euros. Who are the owners of Serbia's largest licensed marketing agencies? Dragan Djilas, Srdjan Saper, followed by Marin Šimurina, Miodrag Lukic, Jacqueline and Igor Kusic, Milan Maravic, Bojan Joksimovic, Vladimir Andonov, Dejan Nedic. The agencies controlled by Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Shaper cover, directly or indirectly, the whole Serbian market. Their clients are the largest public enterprises in Serbia, all state institutions and ministries that need the support of the government in order to survive, for the use of various benefits for wealth with the help of state structures. Who knew such great anti-crime and corruption fighters! Gilas and Shaper are taking a monopoly position on the Serbian market. Since the largest tenants are commercial media space, it is not possible to deal with this type of activity at all unless you buy some of the most important resources from them, whether it's seconds or renting space in the printed media. Their agencies use a privileged position in the media store and seconds and space they get with a big rebate, which no one else can get. In this way, it is only possible to rent space with them, and this is achieved by means of an indirect, complete control of the media market. I'll try to show you a table picture of the traffic of privileged licensed marketing agencies in 2005, 2006, 2007, through the associated and hidden properties of Gilas and Srdjan Shaper. A group of these marketing agencies made the following revenue: in 2005, nearly 30,000,000 euros, in 2006, nearly 49,000,000 euros, in 2007 an incredible 74,737,000 euros. The second group of companies under full control of Srdjan Saper, and indirectly Dragan Gilas, makes the following revenue: in 2005, nearly 5,000 euros, then imagine a jump in 2006 of almost 38,000,000 euros (from not full five, to over 37, or not full 38,00,000 euros), and in 2007, when parliamentary elections were incredible, 55,000 euros. This is the best picture from which Serbian citizens can see that in their torture and distress, rich people such as Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Saper, great fighters for democracy, human rights and European integration and unscathed anti-crime and corruption fighters. You will now see how much revenue the companies have achieved under the full control of a certain Slavica Simic, and in fact under the indirect influence of Gilas and Sapera; again one group of enterprises of which none has a Serbian name. In 2005, more than sixm euros, in 2006, 10,486,000 euros, in 2007 nearly 13m euros. Incomes made by companies under the full control of a certain Marin Simurina, in fact under the indirect influence of Gilas and Shaper: in 2005, 166,000 euros, in 2006, 243,000 euros, in 2007 436.000 euros. One company under the control of a certain Miodrag Lukic, which is in fact under the indirect influence of Gilas and Shaper, made revenue of over sevenm euros in 2005, 13m euros in 2006 and 11.5m euros in 2007. The company under the full control of certain Jacqueline and Igor Kusic, in fact under the indirect and hidden influence of Gilas and Shaper – in 2005 over a million and a half euros, in 2006 almost two million euros and in 2007 over seven million euros. There are more companies like that. The owners of these companies, the formal owners, are different people. Each of these companies, which achieved enormous amounts of money in 2005, 2006 and 2007, covered up owners and indirect owners are Srdjan Shaper and Dragan Gilas. How do you form a media monopoly? The media monopoly on the Serbian market is formed in two ways. The first way – several marketing agencies combine their clients' media budgets into one media agency. That's how you create what's called. media pulse. The parent media agency generates an extravagant to the total amount of money invested relating to advertising in all the media where the Agency’s clients are advertised (television, radio, printed media, etc.). Serbia's largest media agencies, after collecting funds from the parent media agency, are renting advertising space in the most important media in December of the current year for advertising for next year. In addition to the total budgets, the potential rise in prices from the current year is used in advance. The example is the rise in RTS prices over the past ten years; the oscillations in RTS broadcasting prices were up to 50% year-on-year. Second, the media agency's money is placed in the production of TV shows, TV shows, the purchase of film and serial programs, and thus additional benefits are achieved in terms of achieving the benefits of broadcasting received by the Joint Media Pulling Agency. Who manages money flows aimed at the media in Serbia? The unofficial estimate is that more than 85% of Serbia's total marketing budget is controlled and directed by related companies owned or disguised by co-ownership, as well as by indirect hidden control of senior officials of the Democratic Party of Gilas and Shaper. In this way, owners of Serbia's media space, which make the state's budget between forty-fiftym euros, have the power to do whatever they want, which means they create politics, support it or change it. Some ministries and ministers direct huge sums of money into various campaigns, filling the agencies' funds to pay media favors to the current government, while at the same time targeted, "spinned" ratings, pre-arranged, raise circulations to the most loyal and electronic speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these are the same ministers who are ordering Serbian citizens to tighten their belts, turn off the light when they leave the apartment, not to put hot soup in the fridge, that they must be squeezed in 2009 because it is a major economic crisis. Look at the amount of money on the people's torture and the accidents are being made by media manipulations Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Shaper. Ten per cent of the budget is controlled and directed by agencies that are also linked to the ruling parties, but at a lower level of people in the ruling structures, and thus are less limited by party membership. The remaining 5% of the budgets control the rest. Based on what indicators are the budgets for spending marketing money in the media being directed and determined? Indicators should be based on the research results carried out by authorised agencies, but there really is one source whose results are respected as relevant, i.e. In Serbia, there is a total, out-of-state uncontrollable, monopoly in this area, and that is the famous "Strategic Marketing". The company, or Srdjan Bogosavljevic, also owns AGB Nilsen Serbia, which deals with measuring TV stations' ratings. In the company's ownership structure, it appears as a partner of the company "AGB Nilsen Netherlands", which is registered in the country as a limited liability company and which has no connection with the US central company, so the license itself is disputed. In practice, "Strategic Marketing", as the only agency, predominantly favours certain media with which they have favourable financial arrangements, in principle – how much money, so much music. For example, all known and unexposed cases refer to RTS, with which the media agency Media House concluded a contract that was extremely harmful to this media house, and enabled the agency to make an enormous profit of over tens of millions of euros. How does it directly affect the media? The money from the marketing agencies. There's more ways. First of all, the budget of clients is directed through the Agency's account to the desired medium, which implies the obligation of the media to report affirmably on the activities of the Agency's owners, the activities of all their clients, and especially in the area of crisis pi-ar. Here is an explanation why in Serbia, however, only on the media controlled by Djilas and Shaper, honey and milk flow, and why there are no people in these media who cut their fingers so that Mladjan Dinkic and Boris Tadic would pay attention to them, why there are no strikes in Serbia, why there are no unsatisfactory, why there are no hungers. Another way is to buy certain individuals in all targeted media (editors, journalists, marketing directors, producers in marketing, etc.). The third way is to get people checked out from the biggest agency into top-ranking positions in the most important media, as well as into major state systems. For example, Srdjan Saper has his own staff in Telekom Srbija, and the director of "Evening News" is the long-standing director of "Direct Media". The political parties' ties, including the ruling parties, and above all the Democratic parties, and marketing agencies are completely unbreakable. This relationship manifests itself in two ways. The ruling parties commit to the agencies that, after the end of the election, it will affect that a particular agency will receive clients that the party has influenced, for example, all state institutions and public enterprises and foreign clients that are essential to help the current government. Another way is for the agencies, in agreement with the parties, to allocate certain funds for the needs of the party's election activities to support them. The Democratic Party is supported by the following agency owners in Serbia: Dragan Djilas, Srdjan Saper, Nebojsa Krstic, Ivan Stankovic, Branislav Dimitrijevic; party G 17 plus certain Igor Avzner. That all of this has been applied in practice, it is only necessary to look at the indicators of income from the National Bank of Serbia's balance sheet, which is published by the Tabu magazine, with a special reference to the rate of revenue growth of several major agencies, in the period from 2005 to today, all based on official data from the National Bank of Serbia. According to sources of the National Bank of Serbia, according to final accounts for 2007, the net value of the total market for marketing services in Serbia in 2007 is estimated to be 443,605,000 euros. The indicators of annual growth rates for the first ten related agencies are indisputable, only for a period of three years, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. In fact, the annual rate of income growth in individual agencies is even several hundred per cent compared to previous year's business. Such growth in income and business success has not been recorded anywhere near in any branch of Serbia's economy. This means that today the most successful branch in Serbia is this political, manipulative, media economy, which is being managed by Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Shaper. The ten most influential rulers in Serbia's media sky are: 1. Dragan Gilas, 2. Srjan Shaper, 3. Željko Mitrović, then Aleksandar Tijanic, Milka Forcan, Veran Matic, Slavica Šimić, Marin Šimurina, Goran Stamenković, Žaklina Kušić. The question arises how did Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Shaper become such media moguls? They were students and partners of the famous Vladimir Popovic Beba, the owner of the Spectra agency. His students were along with Djilas and Shaper, and Srdjan Đuric, Sandra Ćirkovic, Nevena Joksimovic, Vladimir Bulat and Zoran Stojanovic. Out of 100% of Serbia's total marketing budget, 85% control the following three people: Dragan Gilas - 60%, via their companies "Direct Media", "Multicom", "Emotion Production"; Srdjan Shaper controls 25% through his companies "McCann Erickson", "Media pool", "Idols and friends" etc.; Slavica Simic controls 8% through her houses: "Media house", "The Union Media", "One Media", "Ufa Media" etc. The remaining 7% of Serbia's total media budget has been allocated to all other marketing agencies. No marketing agency in Serbia can be measured with marketing agencies behind them, primarily Dragan Gilas, and then Srdjan Shaper. How is the total budget of clients deployed? Fifty-five percent go to RTS, Pink, TV B92, TV Fox, TV Avala; 15% print media such as Blic, Evening News, Press, Politics etc.; 10% - media and television production (relations, shows, TV shows, TV quizzes); 5% for market research, pi-ar and consulting services; 5% sponsorship, such as sports competitions, sports societies and clubs, cultural events. The extraprofit in Serbia's marketing market refers to the production of television shows and programmes in television productions by the same agencies. Media agencies, in addition to spending commercial clients' funds on regular advertising in advertising blocks, and based on the price-to-time ratios on television stations and the size of each commercial budget, are individually financed by independent television productions and are given the opportunity to achieve their own advertising time based on the production of the television programme. Now, you see, respected citizens of Serbia, three stalking schemes to be obtained by clients after 2000. It's that famous year, you socialists, when you fell from power. You were the main element of that dark policy in the 1990s. In 2000, you were replaced by your current political associates. Now you see, until you entered the government with them, how they've been getting clients since October 5th. The first and the main way is, of course, in the political line – in the staged tenders, organised by senior officials of the Democratic Party. Who knew? Another way is again along the political line – through the direct influence of the Democratic Party's senior officials. The third way is again on the political line, indirectly or hidden, through leading people in the management of domestic and foreign companies that are located there on the DS-related political line. This is what it looks like to get jobs in state institutions and public enterprises. Clients announce a tender for various marketing services. The contest is published in the daily newspaper and on the Ministry's website or at the invitation. There's a client's favorite in advance. It's just amazing. It is provided with additional necessary information, so the competition is always with handicaps for other potential bidders. The campaign agencies' offers have been sealed and the commission's opening. The Commission, as a rule, knows in advance what offer it likes best. After getting a job, things take place on a fixed pattern: the overall budget of the campaign is determined, which in further discussion is arranged in agreement with the client, and subcontractors with minor fees are used for realisation itself, which are often not paid. Part of the budget, in the form of a one-off agency commission, is placed in various, particularly electoral, democratic party activities. Now you'll hear what a specification of the largest clients on licensed agencies looks like. Srdjan Shaper, senior official of the Democratic Party, who owns McCann Erickson, among other things, is the following clients: MTS, Vršački Vineyards, Nescafe, Love Beer, Delta Generals. "Universal McCann", again Srdjan Shaper, senior official of the Democratic Party, among other things: "Puma", "Coca-cola", "Rajffeisen Bank", "Soni Erikson", "Gudjir", "Alkaloid Skopje", "Porse Serbia", "Master Card", "Vileda", "Loreal", etc. Behind Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, the great clients include: "Hipo Alpe Adria Bank", "Fužica", "Simens", "Soni", "Soni", "Telenor", "Delta Holding", "Henkel", "Sosite Genal Bank", "Knjaz Milos", "Nectar", "Subotic Milker", "Imlek", "Simpo", "Ford", "Tiger", then, imagine, "Dureks", "Banka Intesa", "Bajerfarm", "Dr Etker", "Cocta", "Idea", then companies from our brotherly and friendly state – "Jamnica", "Diamant" Zrenjanin. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would perhaps understand that only Dragan Gilas has been rich; come on, a man lives in Serbia, which our people would say is our man, but now you will hear that rich people who think absolutely nothing good about Serbia. You have heard of Idea Plus, owner Ivo Laurencic, head of the Croatian Lobby in Serbia and, of course, a member, is the only European party in Serbia, the Democratic Party. Now listen to his clients: "Mecdonalds", "Henkel", "Nestle", "Purina", "Ticvesh", "Ticvesh Wineries", "Agrohem", "Interex", "Milleara Subotica", "Beotell Net". Behind Nebojko Krstic, also a renowned and highly quoted official of the Democratic Party, media adviser Boris Tadic and his schoolmate, are the following major clients: "Erste Bank", "Bambi", "Red Cross Serbia", humanitarian organisation, non-profit, philanthropic, "Dunone", "Gudjir". As you can see, these data (and this is just a small fraction of the data) are extremely devastating. These data, ladies and gentlemen of the people, sheds the right light on who is actually ruling Serbia today, who is ruling the media in Serbia and who is creating a public opinion in Serbia. When you look at this data, it is clear to you that people like Boris Tadic are a mere political puppet in the hands of media and financial tycoons such as Dragan Gilas and Srdjan Shaper. Then, in light of these facts, it is quite true that the remark that Dragan Dilas made to Boris Tadic – that he must not reduce budgets for the city of Belgrade in his sleep, because then he will find some new model who, on behalf of the DS, will act as head of state. In this remaining time, I will provide some more information that the SRS anti-corruption team, led by a young but very brave man, who has dealt with crime and corruption in Serbia, and this is Mr Ivan Ninic. The document shows that Belgrade's incumbent mayor Dragan Gilas is deeply involved in crime by robbing his own city's budget and putting a million-dollar profit in his pocket. The raid of Gilas indirectly carried out through his company "Emotion Production", which is known in public for broadcasting profitable shows, or quizzes: "Great Brother", "I Change Woman", "Flying Start", "48 Hours Wedding", "Take or Leave", "All for Love", "Russian Roulette". The equity stake in this company, Gilas, actually has through the founding company "Multicom Group". How? It is very simple that Gilas and his former wife, whether the current wife Milica Delevic-Dilas, have 50% and 25% of the company's ownership stake in the company "Multicom Group", and this company is the founder and owner of the company "Emotion Production", according to the report number AB - 22/06-001, which was made up of inspectors of the Agency for Budgetary Audit of the City of Belgrade on 30 April 2007. So this is your data, from your people, not from the people of the SRS, we don't have our people in the budgetary audit of the city of Belgrade. Gilas's "Emotion Production" company, in conjunction with the city authorities, has produced large-scale crime and thus gained huge profits. Budgetary inspectors discovered that by violating the regulations and procedures of Gilas's company in the most perfidious and most criminal manner, the city's building land was literally kidnapped, in order to build a television series "Great Brother", and in that house, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, was also the convinced antifascist Nenad Canak. Given that it is an affair that cannot be summed up in short lines, it is best to rely on official evidence and thus conclude the mosaic of this crime, in which Dragan Gilas and his friends had their interest, and the damage suffered by the Belgraders. (President: Mr Martinovic, since I see MPs react, I would still like to ask you to use more polite formulations, even when you talk about your political opponents. It is, however, a public figure, the mayor of Belgrade, a man to be respected for his role. Besides, anything you say can one day be the subject of some other institutions. I'd just like to ask you, you're a lawyer, take a little care of that. ) If I can give you one little clarification, this is, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, all the dry facts themselves, and if you allow me to move forward I will show you that this is about the records of the competent state authorities, with accounting numbers, dates, by calling for appropriate legal regulations. So you won't hear from my mouth, if you don't like it, I won't use any political qualifications, but I'm going to have to talk about this phenomenon, I'm not going to say it's a crime, I'm not going to speak only legal language. (President: Yes, I would ask you to at least use euphemisms for the dignity of the Assembly. ) I respect, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, the dignity of the Assembly. However, I am not as much of a lawyer as you from the Democratic Party, but I will try, with my humble legal knowledge, to say something about these very strange phenomena that are happening in the city of Belgrade. The Belgrade City Assembly's executive board, with its decision of 26 June 2002 on 10-year use, without the obligation to pay compensation, has granted city land with certain facilities to the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". Actually, it's a lot no. 3543/1, which is registered in the Kastastar municipality of Stara Rakovica. The surrender to use this property in the property of the city, or state property, was regulated between the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" and the city of Belgrade by a contract dating back to 21 September 2005. As far as the contract itself is concerned, it was specified that the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" without the consent of the city and the competent directorate could not rent to other natural and legal persons trusted immovableity in state property, which it receives for use, on the 27th Street of Knez Viseslava. Also, the contract required "Pionirski grad" that adaptations and works on given immovableity can be performed exclusively with the previously obtained agreement of the city as the holder of the right to use and with the approval of the competent authority for construction work at the city administration. The signing of such a contract certainly preceded the giving of written consent by the Republic Property Directorate as of 12 August 2005. With this act, the competent directorate practically supported the city's decision to use the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" for use, which, after ten days later, will become an object, uses one word that is political, I will say – a legal transaction for the development and expansion of the business of Dragan Gilas. If in this case it could have occurred immediately, I do not want to say crime, but something strange, testifys that the authorities at the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" filed an application at the Department for Urbanism on 6 June 2005 for the issue of an act on urban conditions for construction, and at the part of the Catastrian parcel No. 23, in the Katastrian municipality of Stara Rakovica. After a month of waiting, already on 9 August 2005, the Secretary of Urbanism issued a copy of the General Urban Plan of Belgrade by 2012, which clearly showed that it could not begin construction on the said plot. Why? Because the land is listed according to urban conditions is intended, it says, for public services, for public buildings and complexes and for facilities and activities of general interest. Therefore, in the specific case of construction, it can be started if an authorisation is obtained, which is obtained with a long and difficult legal procedure, and a strict legislative procedure, which includes the production and manufacture of accompanying technical documentation. As Gilas's company rushed here to enter the business as soon as possible, a contract on business-technical co-operation was concluded on 22 August 2005 between the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" and the company "Emotion Production". 411. Co-operation meant providing a location for the installation of an assembly-demontation temporary facility in the part of the plot used by the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" for a period of five years, from 2005 to 2010, and for the purposes of production and production of the "Big Brother" series. You see, it may seem strange to you why this is happening, but from yesterday's debate on the bill on the fight against fascism and neonasism, nationalism, national socialism, and who knows what else, I've actually gotten the impression that it was necessary to do all this. It is that the law has been broken, it is that all urban regulations have been affected, but it has been done for one very important reason – so that all citizens of Serbia who followed the "Great Brother" series can see live and directly through TV screens what it looks like when a great anti-fascist brushes teeth, cooks, drinks coffee, talks with other "Great Brother" householders. Imagine what would happen to antifascism in Serbia if Serbian citizens could not see these important facts in the Big Brother series. I would seriously worry about what the political climate is like in Serbia and that perhaps they are not raising their heads somewhere by various fascists, neo-Nazis, nationalists, national socialists, etc. Now you'll see Gilas invests in the shadows. With this contract, Dragan Gilas provided himself with the most possible benefits by pushing out the Sports and Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" as a formal-legal investor, although this institution was not at all. With the contract, the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" was obliged to provide a site with complete infrastructure (electricity, sewerage, water network) and all necessary building and other building permits, as well as to apply even formally as an investor for obtaining all necessary permits from the competent authorities in a more efficient and economic way, and that "Pionirski grad" will not exercise any ownership rights over the facility. In other words, Dragan Gilas got all this, as the people would say, for free. On the other hand, "Emotion Production" has pledged to receive a fee for the temporary use of a location of 50,000 euros in dinar equivalent, and imagine, in five wars, that is, to bear all the costs of issuing permits, all the costs of using the infrastructure and disassembly and to remove the facility at the end of the agreed deadline. This contract between the Pioneer City and the company "Emotion Production" was largely against the law. It is clear that one such "dill" of the competent institutions cannot verify as legal, so it is no wonder that the contract was signed without the prior consent of the city of Belgrade and the Republic Property Directorate. Also, there was no approval to build more than 800 square metres, which was to be obtained from the competent secretariat. These phenomena, I will not say lawlessness, did not bother Gilas and his company "Emotion Production" to hire Epod as a contractor and to build a temporary "Great Brother" series during the period from 1 September to 6 October 2005. However, this fact was reacted by a construction inspection, which ordered a formal investor ("Pionir City") on 6 October 2005 to suspend works and to unmount steel construction within five days. The steel structure was decommissioned, but the foundation remained intact. Since they were in charge of the "Pionir City" and responsible for the company "Emotion Production" were fully aware that they were building a facility without the necessary consent and building permits, and that for the contracted facility, given the intention, they could never and could never get the appropriate permits, someone figured out how this paper-finding problem could be solved. Thus, "Pionirski grad" submitted an application to the Department of Urbanism on 5 September 2005 for approval for construction of a accommodation facility (conceive! ) children, a cultural and entertainment and sports-recreative purpose, a area of nearly 2,000 square meters, which will allegedly be built out of their own resources. Believe it or not, the Department for Urbanism reached a solution on 17 March 2006 on the approval of building for – watch out for good – the living room of children, the area of as many as 2000 square meters, within the framework of the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". That solution was issued on behalf of the Sports and Youth Secretariat. The decision on the approval for construction became legal on 3 April 2006, and the Big Brother's house was built a year earlier in 2005. Now look at the hypocrisy, the insolence and insolence that the Big Brother's house is defined here as a child's living room! That's what you do, with your mouth full of the protection of human rights, children, the fight against discrimination. I'm just curious to know how this protection officer of yours will react to discrimination when you entangle him, when he reads all this paperwork. So, the company "Emotion Production" on the original basis in October 2005 continued to rebuild the "Great Brother" series facility. In doing so, there was neither a building permit for the building of the Big Brother house, nor was there a solution for the approval of the building for the living room of children, and in building the building before the decision was adopted, Gilas invested as much as 16,000,000 dinars. This information raises the question how did the Gilas company know that their stakes were safe? How could someone have invested 16,000,000 dinars in the construction of a building in advance without fearing that this facility would be destroyed for the second time? Obviously, there was a hint that eventually any paper would be manufactured, even if it was a solution to the approval of a building for the living room of children. That there was indeed something suspicious about this was the moment when the responsible in "Pionir City" asked the Secretary of Urbanism to issue an approval for the construction of a facility for a completely different purpose, while the House of the Big Brother was being built, in accordance with the illegal contract he had envisioned. The second proof, I won't say crime, but these phenomena, is the fact that the board of directors of "Pionir City" on 2 February 2006 made a contradictory decision to build an object whose purpose will be, be careful, children's accommodation, cultural and entertainment, multimedia and sports-recreative activity. I'd believe this if you could convince me that Nenad Canak was a child, that at Big Brother's house he was engaged in culturally-fun, multimedia and sports-recreative activities. To this extent, the man was directed into sports-recreative activity to be likely to have a heart attack that one of the hosts of Big Brother told him to do one push or five squats. This misleading decision also states that the facility will be built out of its own funds or funds obtained by business-technical co-operation, and that Mladen Vujosevic, director of the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" is empowered to conclude all contracts. This decision was preceded by the conclusion of Nenad Bogdanovic, the then mayor of Belgrade, since 20 December 2005, which was given consent to the Sports and Youth Secretariat, and on the initiative on construction directed by the "Pionir City". At that time, the mayor agreed that "Pionirski grad", from his own resources, builds a facility for children's accommodation, cultural and sports-recreative activity, on which the city of Belgrade would have the right to use and dispose. Even the Republic Property Directorate agreed on this conclusion by Nenad Bogdanovic on 9 February 2006, as well as on the decision of the Board of Directors of Sport-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". What is particularly characteristic is the fact that the Building Land and Construction Directorate of Belgrade has charged and charged a fee for construction land at a reduced price of 20%, according to applicable regulations. The reason is that the Directorate formally showed up as an investor "Pionirski grad", which allegedly built an object to perform its work, which means the object of culture, sport and children's institution. Thus, the fee for the use of construction land was 17.800,000 dinars, i.e. 20% was less than the real fee that would have been calculated if the company of Dragan Gilas "Emotion Production" had appeared as an investor at the Directorate. Realising that the Big Brother's house was illegally built at the end of 2005, and that the approval for a completely different kind of facility (to remind you, it was a child's accommodation facility, a cultural-fun and sporting-recreative purpose) that arrived only on 17 March 2006, these experts at Dragan Gilas' firm did not sit their hands in search of a way out of this, I will not say lawlessness, but from a situation like this. His experts have entered some new phenomena at the border of the law. On 28 March 2006, a contract on business-technical co-operation was terminated, signed between the company "Emotion Production" and the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" on 25 August 2005. The reason for the termination of this contract was the inability to build a temporary facility, so the agreement reached agreement to sign a new contract. With this new contract, the Pioneer City should recognise all future and future investments in the construction of the facility by the company "Emotion Production". The question arises – how? On 5 April 2006, a new business-technical co-operation agreement and regulation of mutual relations, which was listed under 41/01/06, was signed between the company "Emotion Production" and "Pionir City" on 5 April 2006. The contract recognised all investments in the building facility, worth 358,000 euros, by Dragan Gilas. However, the contract treats the building no longer as the Big Brother's house, but as an object for the living room of children! Also, one provision of the contract defined that these investments "Emotion Production" acquire the right of use for the own needs of the object in question for the living room of children in the period from 10 April 2006 to 28 June 2012, as well as the continuation of the right to use without making up a new contract and after the expiry of the contract period, but no longer than 1 April 2013. When it comes to the cost of the rental facility, Dragan Gilasa has committed to paying an annual rent of only 5,000 euros, starting from 1 December 2007 to September 2014. If formally-legally observed this case, the investor building the Big Brother's house, or, allegedly, facilities for children's accommodation, cultural-fun and sports-recreative purposes, through the papers was the Department for Sports and Youth, i.e. the Sports-Recreative Centre of the Pioneer City. But essentially, the real investor was the company "Emotion Production", which entered the business relationship of building a building in 2005 using the construction services of Epod DOO. This company is with construction works, i.e. The house of Big Brother, according to the work log, stood on 6 April 2006. Since these dubious works were here in continuity and the permit for building the facility arrived, and as you saw earlier, only on 17 March 2006, the facility was fictitiously between the "Pionir City" and the company "Epod" introduced a contract under number 215/1 on the construction of a building for the living room of children. So, the contract to perform works under the system "key in hand" was protocold only a day before the works, according to the building log, were completed. The question arises how is it possible that works on building an object of nearly two thousand squares last just one day or 24 hours? However, in order to iron all of this through papers and appropriate permits, the contract envisioned the obligation of the Epod company to end construction works, in fact, already built, by 1 May 2006, although all the responsible knew that the works had been completed since 6 April 2006. According to this fictitious contract, on 1 May 2006, between the "Pionir City" and the company "Epod" was concluded and a fictitious protocol on the transfer of the facility. The protocol agreed by the parties that the contractor had implemented all the obligations under the contract and that the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad" had no objections to the quality of the works carried out, built-in materials and equipment. However, respect for the contractual obligations of construction and the quality of the works carried out cannot, unfortunately, be spoken of at all. The Epod company, which formally through the papers and building approval, was dragged as a contractor, did not own a person with a license to perform works, nor did it own construction work equipment. Now the question is, how? Simply by having this company registered as a production and consulting company in the register of business entities, with a predominantly operating code of 92200 and, now watch out, radio and television activities. So, a production and consulting company in the area of radio and television builds, reportedly, a facility for children's daily accommodation, and in fact the Big Brother's house, where all Serbian citizens will have opportunities to watch the great anti-fascist Nenada Chanka. So, since it's not about the construction company, the Epod company had to hire a subcontractor for these jobs. Then the company went one step further, and the expert supervision of the construction entrusted the company with Orbis Engineering, instead of a legal obligation for the investor to hire a supervisory authority. This violates the Law on Planning and Construction in the most harsh way possible. Regardless of all the failures and illegalities, the Belgrade City Department for Urban and Construction Affairs issued a solution on 28 August 2006 on the use of the building permit. This useful permit for the use of the daily stay facility, imagine, was issued to the Sports and Youth Secretariat of the City of Belgrade, as an alleged and fictitious investor, who, as well as the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad", had until then been dragged through all papers! Since this facility, a fake facility for children's living room, was finally put into use, its purpose should have been officially adapted to the needs of Dragan Gilas. This was done by applying the Department for Sports and Youth of the City of Belgrade on 4 October 2006 to the Department for Urbanism to perform works on the adaptation of the facility for stay of children at the Sports-Recreative Centre "Pionirski grad". The paper states that the adaptation is performed with the need to record the "Big Brother" series, which means changing the purpose of the rooms and installing the recording equipment, and within the framework of the gauge of an object whose surface is almost two thousand squares. Thus, the company "Emotion Production", according to available documents, allegedly invested 385,361,000 dinars in a built facility during 2005 and 2006. This is about illegal investment of the company "Emotion Production", and this is about investments before the change of purpose of the facility was made for the purpose of filming the series "Great Brother". All these investments "Pionirski grad" have been admitted on the basis of a beating statement signed on 16 March 2007. In doing so, it should be recalled that the contracted cost of the rental facility for eight years is 40,000 euros, i.e. only 5,000 euros per year. So, if we exempt the funds invested in the facility, Dragan Gilas' company formally provided itself with the use of an object of nearly 2,000 square meters and for a monthly rent of only 416 euros. This is a rent of an incredible 0.21 euros per square metre per month, i.e. a miserable 2.5 euro per meter per square metre per year! Citizens of Belgrade who do not have their own apartment, a roof over your head, ask yourself how much you pay rent for the apartment where you, your children, your parents, etc., and the financial and media mogul Dragan Gilas, the richest man in Serbia, pays a monthly rent of only 416 euros for an object that is almost two thousand square meters in its gauges. There is much more to be said about these suspicious affairs of Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, but unfortunately, due to lack of time, I won't be able to... Your time, Mr. Milivoevich, is over. Because due to lack of time, I will not be able to present all the data, I would like to inform the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia and the means of public information that due to all these machinations and malfeasance of the SRS parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly tomorrow they will apply for the removal of Belgrade's current mayor, Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19611	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of article 100 and on behalf of Article 27. As president of the National Assembly, you are required to respect the Constitution. I will remind you of article 103, which says, "The MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for the opinion expressed or voting in the performance of his parliamentary function." You have warned Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic that the words he used may also be the subject of prosecution, or that he may be responsible for what he said when he delivered the facts, not his own free interpretation. This is how you introduce another element into the Republika Srpska Assembly, which is fear. You are trying to make it impossible for the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to present the things most devastating for our society, which are crime and corruption. You can't ask the MPs to say thieving, stealing, corruption, looting by any other expression but as defined in the Serbian language. Even though you have been intensely suffocating the Serbian Parliament for several months now, I would ask you not to do it in this way, against the constitution, and to allow the MPs to present the facts. Do you like them or not, that's another thing... It's been two minutes. Tomorrow there will be an opportunity for me to give you the facts about how you behave when it comes to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19613	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, no warning has been made, there is no mention of the term "criminal procedure" at all, and even though the MP spoke of an issue that is not on the agenda in the most part of his statement, he was only asked to use euphemisms for the contents he wanted to present. So the terms "criminal procedure" and "guilty" have not been used and there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19614	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 31, in relation to Article 100, and Article 1, the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament. I will remain in article 31 because I have to protest because the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to an injury committed by the chairman during the session. For several days now, when SRS MPs seem to have argued, professionally, on the basis of irrefutable evidence and facts, all that is related to the crime of Boris Tadic, the Democratic Party and the ruling coalition, Mrs Gordana Comic, I do not know for what reason, in violation of both the 31st and Article 103. The Rules of Procedure abuses the fact that one of the vice presidents is, for no reason, Sufling things like this – what he is saying now can be good material for criminal reporting, or slander against Dragan Gilas. Therefore, Madam Chairman, if at that moment you were under the influence of Gordana Komic, on my ears, and for the fact that I hear everything at the chair table, then you need to apologize to Mr Martinovic. Although he was modest earlier, he did not say that, he is the magistrate of legal science, he knows the Constitution very well, as the head of our parliamentary group said, and he knows that everything he says from the assembly pay phone can not be the subject of criminal charges in the procedure in the way that the vice president sufflified you. On the other hand, I don't think it's right, because you're still someone who needs to have the authority and position of president, that someone who claims to be in your place, and that's obviously Gordana Comic, thus abuses the office of vice president during the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19615	There were no injuries to the procedure, so there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the RRA Council who lives and works in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. We move to the 63rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP OF THE COOPERATION AGENCY FOR THIS POINT OF THE Agenda You have received a proposal for a candidate for the selection of a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, which was submitted by the President of the Republic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of this proposal. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Zoran Nikolic – DSS, MP Marina Ragush – SRS. I am opening a hearing on a proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Mr. Todorovic, I'd really like to ask you not to throw it away. You can't rhetorical question so loud. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Marina Ragush, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19616	I think Mr. Nikolic answered first. I don't mind having him before me, but I'll keep going. What is the usual practice of the Serbian Radical Party is that most often it does not enter personal solutions when these points of the agenda are at work in the plenary session of the Serbian Parliament, but certainly, this is one of the most important topics which are the plan and the programme of political action of the SRS. I hope you won't mind, especially the Serbian public, which we will, in the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, talk about what it is, in the widest diapazon of that word, corruption. The Serbian Radical Party believes that one of the biggest problems in the state of Serbia, when it comes to any area of life, is precisely systemic corruption. We will try to prove on the basis of concrete data that, unfortunately, the ruling coalition, or, firstly, what are the parties that used to be DOS, did not intend to enter a serious fight against organised crime and corruption. In our presentation today, the priorities will be misused by budget funds, reports by the Council on the fight against corruption. We will touch areas that are very important, and therefore very painful topics, when it comes to health care, education and everything that should be done every day by citizens of Serbia, who, unfortunately, shrugged down to survival. If we have succeeded only on the basis of publicly available data to reach certain conclusions and to offer certain concrete solutions, and based on the report of the budgetary commission, then it is really unclear why the government in Serbia did not deal with corruption and organised crime. It is unclear why all pre-election promises, which were based on a final account with systemic corruption, were put in an ad act the moment the leverages of power were taken over. A completely unclear picture of Serbia to survive the effects of the global financial crisis this year and for the next three to five years. I think one of the imperatives for the SRS, and it seems to me to me to all those who are residents of this prestigious building, or buildings that should at least predicate to be prestigious, is that in a very transparent way we talk about what eats up Serbian society and which is signed by only a few people who are in direct contact with power. Because if that weren't the case, they wouldn't be able to carry out what's called the most brutal corruption possible. We are particularly pleased, and we seem to record one of the essential victories precisely because we insist on the transparency of criminal tendencies in the Serbian society, which is an increasing number of citizens and an increasing number of members of certain, even very sensitive, institutions provide certain submissions and certain information to the SRS Parliament Club. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, in Serbia, have started to talk very openly about such phenomena as the accumulation of capital in the hands of a few families, all those last names that were the target of the attack in 2000 when you carried out the petoctobar revolution, and you allowed them to achieve a complete monopoly in so-called "monopol". democratic Serbia. Today we will also talk about Mr. Bek, Miskovic, Matic, Filip Cempan, about all those who were the subject of the Anti-Corruption Council's research. Unfortunately, there is something that we will also talk about, which is that members of the Anti-Corruption Council are very afraid for their safety and for their lives. Why is that? Because Serbia fell into an entirely dark period, a period so-called tycunization and no one in power wants to deal with it. What has to be said, the target and distance of the SRS anti-corruption council, and it seems to me that we will deal with it to the greatest extent possible, is to make every name that steals a man's life worth living in Serbia loudly. Instead of the auditors, we will raise certain questions that will give us answers why reforms in Serbia are not implemented, why Serbian citizens survive, why Serbian citizens cannot do normal jobs in the state of Serbia and why only those who are close to the authorities have the advantage, why the dignity of Serbian citizens has been killed in the most embarrassing way, why people have to give up their professions and professions and enter political parties that are in power to earn our bread, and above all, why some, just because they are on the way to the tycoons, have to pick up and leave Serbia, keeping their head so. Serbian citizens expect us, as well as many who wrote to us, who had the courage to sign with their titles, names and names below the information you will have the opportunity to hear for the first time... This information is not as embarrassing as it is brutal for something that tends to be a democratic society, and in fact, it is a society that is under occupation, first of all an economic one, and today we are witnesses – a complete Washington occupation. Today we are witnessing the most embarrassing act – today the city of Belgrade has been blocked because "Gay Julius Caesar" with its praetor came to visit what he destroyed several years ago. We will try to sign every name that has brought us back and brought us back to the dark Middle Ages. Also, let's say every name and institution that protected these people and brought us back to the blacklist of all world and international institutions that say that in Serbia the biggest problem is systemic corruption and organised crime. Then the citizens of Serbia will understand why the MIP is being taken away from the funds instead of being added; then Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to understand that officials are actually potential targets, because every moment, if they start to catch a thief, they become victims. It's everyday in the state of Serbia. If the members of the MUP do not have a high enough reward for fear and a living wage, there is a parliamentary group that will speak openly and publicly, regardless of the consequences. Someone's finally got to start dealing with it in a serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19617	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic Zoran has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19618	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, although we are not much in the O.R. right now, I think this 63rd item of the agenda of this session deserves to be said. On the 63rd point, we have a proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. It certainly is very necessary that there be a Anti-Corruption Committee and that it works in full composition and everything here would be fine if this point had come to the agenda as an inevitability in rounding the process, but this point, like many other points of the agenda, was the result of the negligence of this Parliament, the sloppyness of the ruling majority when it comes to the assembly procedure, and for God's sakes, and the abuse of what is the basic act under which this assembly is working, and that is the Rules of Procedure. Two or three months ago, we discussed this point, and I will briefly remind you of how the Anti-Corruption Agency is being formed and which institutions are proposing certain members. According to Article 8. The law, for a member of the Agency's Committee, may be chosen by a person who fulfils the general conditions for working in state bodies (which provides for certain conditions) and cannot be a member of a political party. According to Article 9. The law, the Agency's Committee, numbers nine members, elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court, the State Auditing Institution, the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, through a common agreement, the Social and Economic Council, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, through a common agreement. The missing member of the Anti-Corruption Agency is a member who comes to this assembly, or a proposal coming at the proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia. Given that the proposal is referred to by the President of the Republic of Serbia, it has a special weight and requires the assembly majority to respect the proposal coming from the President of the Republic in full and procedural terms. Unfortunately, when it was voted on by Ms. Sonja Licht, who was the President of the Republic, we had one great, least of all unpleasantness in the assembly. Although it is not an inconvenience and I will use another formulation later, it happened that Mrs Sonja Licht, although she was proposed by the President of the Republic, received 125 votes in this parliament, has therefore not been elected. The view of the stenographic notes shows that a number of ruling majority MPs did not vote in favour of President Sonja Licht's proposal and that Mrs Sonja Licht did not receive a majority. I note, Madam Chairman, that Mrs. Komic is throwing something at you. (President: Mrs. Comic does not throw. We're negotiating a session and we're just realizing that what you're saying isn't true, but that's what I'll tell you when you're done being exposed. ) (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Shame on you. ) (President: Please take care and do not report without words, I will give you a warning, Mr Aligrudic. ) (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Thank you. ) Addressing this high house, I welcomed you as President of the Assembly. I appreciate that when you sit behind that chair you and chair, without this assembly being chaired by a collective body whose member is Mrs. Comic. So, if you've had a grudge about something I said here, then you say it. I allow you, I cannot take that right away from you, to use the authority of the President of the Assembly, but if I have said something that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can always answer the word and replicate and comment, as president. You have now said that you are consulting with Mrs. Komic and thus you have confirmed one thesis that has been said here several times, and it has been said today – that Mrs. Komic is constantly subfling you and that you, under the influence of Mrs. Komic, are very often performing certain interventions here for which there is no need, because, believe me, while chairing you, Mr. Nikola Novakovic or Radojko Obradovic, we have much less problems in the work of the Assembly, and we always have problems when the vice-president of Mrs. Comic's Assembly is chairing. I'd still advise you to do it the way you do, and that's a much better way. What happened two or three months ago, when it was voted on, which Mrs. Comic sufflified is not true, is that Mrs. Sonja Licht did not receive the required majority, or 125 MPs voted. It's in the stenogram. You're like the president at the time. I will read a copy of the stenographic notes: "I am closing the vote and I am saying: for 125, there were no against and abstentions, there was no vote 18, of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Sonja Licht, president of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence, to be a member of the Agency's Committee. "What you can't see in the stenographic notes is the marble in the O.R., the shock, the infidelity. A number, probably three or four MPs from the ruling coalition -- I will not say from which parliamentary group, though known, they did not vote. You have tried to replace this state of shock, or to overcome it in the following way: "We have a proposal to repeat the vote. "I ask the question – who made this proposal? You can't see it here, in a stenogram, who made that proposal. If someone has made a proposal in the congregation, then it must be said who made the proposal. There is a latent danger that Mrs. Comić was subfling to you at the same time, although I have no material evidence, because I suppose it would have been written in the stenographic notes, but since Mrs. Comic is not mentioned, I have no right to say so. You are obliged to respond to both MPs and the National Assembly and the public who made the motion to re-vote. Later, in the following sentence you give an answer, in which I express my suspicion: "We are voting again." Here comes the second question – on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you repeat this vote? Who answers that question, I admit to him that he is extremely familiar with all the secrets and depths of the newly drawn Rules of Procedure, and yet, I don't know why, I appreciate that the only person who can answer that question is Mrs. Comic. But after that sentence, "We're voting again," the point goes, "I'm deciding." Now Mrs. Comic cannot answer my question, because Mrs. Comic, who might have found a certain member in the statute, was caught up in your sentence: "I decide". I give my mandate if Mrs. Comic finds a sentence saying, "I decide." Here, hold my word. You said it was up to you and you took on yourself, for God's sake, one big responsibility. I don't know what you've been challenged for, but you've simply accepted it for yourself. However, it is sometimes brave, to accept your own responsibility to break the Rules of Procedure. Then we had a repeat vote. Then Mrs. Sonja Licht got 127 votes, but de facto, as far as I know, in a democratic procedure you can't vote twice on the same thing, which happened in the Assembly. It was just the beginning of what was happening about ten days ago and it was as if it required one video surveillance of what was actually happening in the Assembly when the vote was held, and then both the most creative and most responsible MPs offered to bring a camera and video to the assembly room. The best answer also to Mrs. Komic, who has answers to all questions related to the Rules of Procedure, but also to you she has actually given Mrs. Sonja Licht. She resigned as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I suppose Mrs. Licht didn't want to have any spot in her election, respecting democratic principles that one thing could not be voted twice. In fact, the first time it was put to a vote she didn't get the required majority. Now as a consequence, we have a situation to discuss it again. Here, today, on the 13th or 20th of May, after the 13th session began, we are talking about this, extremely unnecessary. That job we could have done three months ago, that you had the necessary majority, that you respected the Rules of Procedure, that you respected an interparty agreement. You didn't do all that, and now here at 5:30 you're telling us, as something that's a normal thing, yeah, well, on the sixth day, we're discussing the 63rd agenda. If it is normal for the Parliament to discuss 63 points of the agenda for six working days, then it is really not surprising that not only the public of Serbia, but also those who know what parliamentary life is in other countries know that this assembly is sinking into one work that is certainly not democratic. It happened then and it was kind of past you, but our people say – which is not paid on the bridge, is paid on the pot. I think it's our sacred duty, and so is mine, since I've been given the opportunity to speak, to remind you of that. This should have been a big enough reminder for you, as president of this House, not to allow yourselves to be affected by the reputation of asking whether this parliament is representing citizens in the days to come. Because if it represents them, it must do so in the right way and the only possible way is to respect the will of the citizens and to actually know what is going on in this House. We were witnessing that ten days ago, or 7-10 days ago, when there was a vote on numerous laws and agendas in this assembly hall, there was not a majority. There wasn't a majority, and it was, due to the suspicion we had and based on this vote two or three months ago, a factual and evidence of the video. A ruling majority MP came out of the O.R., and the video recorded him in the O.R. and returned to his seat. Only, there is one problem – the fact that the card was always in the parliamentary unit of the electronic voting system. The video was taken, as it is said, by a random sample method, because such cases were continuous; more than three or four MPs went out at one point and were not present. I am also taking this opportunity to say that I attended that vote safely in the three to four hours; I warned you at one point that there are not three or four MPs in the room, you told me – insert the card. Here, and now you confirm it. That means I warned you, but you didn't respond to my warning. It was more important to you if my card was inserted and more important to you was my presence. I thank you for that, you give me too much of an importance, but I'm irrelevant in that whole thing. As an individual, I did not participate in the majority, nor did I intend to be a 126th MP, but as an MP, I warned you that three or four MPs had just come out and that you did not have a 123 in the congregation room, but you did not look back on my remarks. There were other MPs who warned you and then we came up with this famous video, which actually confirmed everything we warned you about, what we told you, and what was the actual state. Then what happened, which is next, happened -- we saw this video by the president of our parliamentary group in fact to you, but also told the Serbian public the truth. As with many things in life, the truth takes two: it takes someone to tell it and it takes someone to understand it. At this point, I have absolutely no doubt that the public of Serbia has realized what has happened here. What happened on the video and it was written. But what is the problem and what I am as an MP who wants to raise the reputation of this Parliament is that neither you as chairman nor the ruling majority have understood what we have actually told you. The reaction that followed, related to the parliamentary group and also to President Milos Aligrudic, is the same reaction from 2003 when we had the "Solun" affair and when we had the "Bodrum" affair. Be careful, political careers in the Democratic Party or, to be precise, the political career in the Democratic Party was built on an apology for the Thessaloniki affair and the Bodrum affair. I suppose a large number of citizens or a high percentage of citizens believed this apology was sincere. Boris Tadic's campaign for the first presidency was based on an apology for the Bodrum affair and the Thessaloniki affair, saying it would never happen again and that those involved would bear sanctions. Some did, or only one person suffered sanctions. I don't think he's even a member of the Democratic Party. All others, many of the present MPs, including some who sit here in the hall tonight, on such a wave, on those promises and on those promises, very convincingly, have received a mandate and are now sitting in the hall. That mistake and the situation happened again. Now there are two things: either Mr Tadic was not sincere when he apologized to the public or MPs did not understand and understand the words of his president and did not believe in the honesty of Boris Tadic's apology. Because if they believed or if they were behind what Boris Tadic said, as president of the Republic, then they had to be luchens in this whole thing and admit to the Serbian public that it was really true that the MPs were coming out of the hall and that no majority was needed at all times in this room. If they had admitted that, we would have believed that things had changed in Serbia and this parliament. Given what is happening in this House and since I am quite certain that I will not get an answer from you that will go in a positive direction, we are aware that nothing has changed. We are aware that, as well as all promises, and about 200,000 jobs, and about six points, and about Kosovo, and about the economy, is actually a big deception and fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19619	I thank the MP. I mean, and I wish you were mistaken, not that you were tendant. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19620	I think there's been an injury to article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which generally speaks of how the President runs parliament, including the sitting itself, without last reference, without the provision that is meant to be discussed by Article 27. Namely, when an MP speaks and addresses the National Assembly, regardless of what can be mentioned in his address, someone’s name, possibly yours, regardless of what the reference to what I’m talking about may refer to some of your activities, to something that is just happening after the rostrom, i.e. I don't think it's good to get into the word of the MP. I think it's contrary to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, unless you thought to warn him to say something that's out of the question, which you didn't say. If that was not the case – I end up, don't be impatient – if that wasn't the case and if it wasn't the basis, then you didn't have any other basis. If you felt as a people's messenger called by what the MP told you in his presentation, whatever it was, it was worth giving the post to the chairman of one of the vice presidents and reporting for the line and answering in a valid manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19621	Thank you. Indeed, there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure. Article 103, paragraph 2, says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases referred to in the first position. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Therefore, I really think that Mr Nikolic fully understood that he was not talking about the agenda. Replica? You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19622	Indeed, Mrs. Comic's manners, but it does not stand for you, absolutely, I must admit. Don't, please, interpret what I'm capable of understanding and the way I understand something. Absolutely everything I said was about the agenda point, about the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. This case that there are not enough MPs in the hall is a potential subject to which the committee of directors should be dealt with, as it is possible that there is also an affair behind the exit of certain MPs that has to do with corruption. I firmly believe that what I've been saying has something to do with the agenda and behind every word, from first to last, I'm standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19623	Mr. Radoslav Mojsilovic has a word, a representative of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19624	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the respected presidency, the NS hopes that in the future, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and above all Mrs Radmila Vasic, who is the President of the Republic of Serbia's proposal for a choice in this agency, will safely carry out the tasks of her work and that those who are corrupt, and here I mean the staff from the G17 Plus party, will finally face justice. On this occasion, I will give just a few examples that these people are really involved in corruption and that there are irrefutable facts that they are willing to be processed by the competent authorities and finally put where they belong, in prison. I spoke several times in the Serbian Parliament about the Zamber affair in Vranj. It is, in fact, that the state through the SIEPA has given certain Jani Savas 3,200,000 euros, out of the sixm euros promised, and in return for the money, it has taken the obligation to build a factory in Vranje that will allegedly employ 3,000 workers. Mr. Dinkic, all the time, while the construction of the factory was still under way and in time he transferred money to Mr. Savas, threatened the workers of the Jumka that unless they signed a contract with Zamber, they would be out of a job. The workers under great threat and blackmail signed a contract with "Zamber", and in the end we came to the conclusion that Mr. Savas fled the country, that no more workers in "Zamber" worked and that there were none of those 3,000 promised jobs, even if 900 workers who were currently employed in "Zamber" were out of work. When this happened and what New Serbia pointed out was true, Mr Dinkic said there was no concern for the state of Serbia, that Serbia would recover the 3,200,000-euro money that was paid to Mr Savas and that all the contractors of the work that participated in the organisation of the project would be calmed down (only to the company "Metheor" from Vranja owed 1,200,000 euros for the works done) and that Serbia could charge that money through the bank guarantee it has from the company "Elena" from Britain. However, since the payment of the guarantee and to this day and to this day there is nothing, the state has not been damaged, and Vranje has a mockery in the city centre, an unbuilt factory that grows in weeds, at one of the best locations in the city. The Vranians, and of course the NS, believe that there was a distribution of some money between Janis Savas, owner of "Elena" and representative of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Mr Dinkic himself. Another example of corruption, and some evildoers will say that I am now calling for national hatred, or what I know, happened recently in the Bujanovac municipality. I hope this agency succeeds in the next period to prevent that from happening. It is about tendering for the construction of local streets in MZ Trnovac in the municipality of Bujanovac. In fact, a local directorate, which is under Albanian rule, has called the municipality a tender in such a way that one street in the length of approximately two kilometers has divided into four parts to make it a small-value public procurement, which is a crime at the very start of the tendering for public procurement. However, all companies from those premises decided to participate in the tender and reported. Then came a company and a notice from the Bujanovac Municipality Directorate that it is most favourable with the offer and that it will get a job to build these local roads in MZ Trnovac in the Bujanovac municipality. In addition to informing that this company will bring in all valid documentation within three days, which will be reviewed by the Directorate for a certain period of time and, if that documentation is valid and in accordance with the law, will be visited by the subcontractor in that business and then signed by a contract with the most favourable bidder in the tender... The directorate made the decision that everything with this paperwork was fine, visited the subcontractor and, once again, informed the bidder that he was the best in the tender. However, representatives of the Albanian-run Directorate, despite all these notifications to the firm that it is the best in the tender, assigned a job to the Albanian firm "Savabelce" from Presevo. So you're informing one company that the best bidder is in the tender, and then you sign a contract with a whole other firm. However, I can say that none of the authorities, despite the criminal charges filed, nor the district attorney's office, nor this Anti-Corruption Agency, nor the directorate itself, i.e. The Bujanovac Public Procurement Commission has not responded on this issue. In the end, we have a very interesting example in Vranj. It concerns tendering for the construction of the road to the ski resort of the Mad Mare. Many do not want to talk about this problem, because the city leaders in Vranj, and I can freely say that the NS is part of the government in that city, fear that Mr Dinkic will abolish all donations to our city if this problem is spoken publicly. I have nothing to fear and there is nothing to fear from the NS, so we will publicly present this problem to the citizens through the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A month and a half ago, the town of Vranje launched a public tender that refers to the construction of the road to the ski resort of Besna mare. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has transferred 40,000,000 dinars to the Public Business "Skieland of Besna Kobila" 40,000,000 dinars for the construction of a local road to Besna kobila, to the famous ski resort, and out of 40,000,000 about 50.000 were intended for electricity and for the construction of an electric network to Besna kobila. What's this about? First, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has blackmailed the town of Vranje that the funds granted will not be transferred to the city's expense until a public enterprise is established to deal exclusively with the ski resort, headed by the G17 Plus people. There is talk about the transfer of funds around Mladjan Dinkic ends up in the hands of local actors, i.e. local officials G 17 plus. What's going on? The tender was called, I said, a month and a half ago. In the tender, there was a 30-day deadline for bidders to submit documentation for participation in the tender. That deadline expires on April 15th at 12:00 p.m. By 12:00 on April 15th, only one company appeared, "Product" from Pečevac, to perform works on the construction of the road on the Mad Mare. In the presence of representatives of the company of public procurement servicemen of the city of Vranj, they tried to delay delivery, later to issue, the best performer's offer. But at that point it was prevented, but in those 24 hours, strange things happened. The performers objected that they could not make a tour of the site related to the construction of the local road, so they asked the Public Procurement Service for an additional 24-hour period so that they could tour the field and later deliver their offers. It's a little strange that all this happens in that one day, when everyone else is already late to hand over offers, except for the company "Product" Roasters from Leskovec. It was done outside the law. That deadline has been approved past the Official Messenger, and we all know that calls for tenders, when it comes to high-value procurement, are published in the Official Messenger. The deadline was extended and four other companies appeared within that extended deadline. The thing might not have been so scary if it all ended that day. However, the company that got the job, now I don't want to mention the names of these companies, because it's all mentioned in the criminal report, did not leave in its offer a deadline within which the investor is obliged to pay the contractor of the works performed in the construction service. In the record of opening bids, it clearly stands with the winner of the job three points, while others say that 30 days is the due date from the date on which the final situation is exposed. Later in the decision to assign a job, it stands at the same firm that got the job that gave the company a 60-day payment date from the day of the situation. This is handwritten, and there is a clear evidence of the crime committed by the City of Vranj Public Procurement Service. After our intervention, the head of this service has been relieved. I've been called by the Mayor of Vranya... And, once again, he's 100% afraid that he'll stop investment towards our city if I put this problem out in public. I was called by the Mayor of Vranja Mr. Miroljub Stojcic, with a story to endure until the end in order to brighten this affair. I can also say that there are honest and honest people in the Democratic Party. Before this, Deputy Mayor Igor Andonov called me to point out that criminal activities are currently taking place in the City of Vranja Public Procurement Office. These people also agreed to testify in the process, based on those criminal charges filed. But until today, the district public prosecutor's office is not responding. I hope that the Anti-Corruption Agency, to which this material has also been delivered, will react and that these criminal acts in our city will be prevented. This is just one example of corruption going on in the Pcinian County. I hope the other MPs from the Pcinj County will speak on the subject as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19625	Thank you. Mrs. Marina Ragush, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19626	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, it is almost unheard that we in this place and in this way talk about corruption. We've been talking for years about something that's everyday, and absolutely government has no hearing, no desire to deal with it. There's a few evidences. The media most often launched certain affairs by apparently at some point in time, before the elections, clashing with the titles of terribly large capital in the state of Serbia, just those people who determine political life in Serbia and influence political decisions. After all these media affairs, we absolutely didn't get a chance to hear what was going on after that, but very serious analyses have been made, which testify to the existence of systemic corruption, about the existence of organised crime. What Serbia can only detect today is that there is no mechanism, there is no will, nor will it have any force to engage with the protagonists of criminal activities. What policeman will risk his life and arrest such a strong name that is definitely related to the highest circles of government in Serbia? Are we not day-to-day witnesses that, without any problems, without any sanctions, police officers are cut in the streets of the city of Belgrade or anywhere in Serbia? Aren't we all day-to-day witnesses to talk about the most terrible possible business combinations, the usurpation of the most brutal sight possible and that no one's head hair is missing? Didn't we talk here multiple times about the abuse of budget funds, and on the other hand we have an auditor who every day says he won't be able to do a good job, because there's no funds, no material-technical assumptions, no resources, which is the worst, there are no people willing to risk their safety in the state of Serbia by determining the abuse of budget funds. At other levels of government, the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly talked very clearly about non-intentional budget spending. What did we get in return? The dirtiest possible media campaign and a terrible degree of repression. In Serbia, no one is crazy enough to believe another story except for one thing – that the truth cannot be heard in Serbia. What are the institutions doing? Haven't we recently had examples of the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, the intimidation of the worst possible species? Didn't we also have examples of public confessions from state officials that were under pressure and no one was missing from the head? What was the criticism of the Democratic Party, of some totalitarian regime, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have overcome the definition of the totalitarian regime, because one man can do anything and one party rule Serbia, because in Serbia no one who is independent can enter any business combination unless they are close to that man and that party. Is this the kind of democracy that you deceived the citizens of 1999 by criticising Milosevic, who is for you a little baby? In the state of Serbia, we don't know how many people are disabled today, for example. In the state of Serbia, we don't know how many single mothers and fathers are today, how many children are without parental ageing, which part of the oldest population is inevitably in need of help, but also that we know what are the strong names that do the strongest jobs in Serbia. For those names, the state of Serbia always has hearing, attention and wide open doors. Do you really think there is a crazy people in Serbia? Do you really believe that this people will endure more than this year when they face losing their jobs and thus lose everything? What is inevitable, which is a reflection of the anxiety of the ruling, or one, most significant party in power, is that you are slowly but surely losing ground under your feet, for one simple reason. I'm not saying it's a general definition of all of you in power, but those who rated you well know what they're doing. They took even the smallest, most honorable opportunity for Serbian citizens to live a life of worthy men. They usurped what are the most fundamental freedoms and fundamental human rights. I can't believe that those of you who are here don't know that, and I don't want to believe that you who are also Serbian citizens don't want to deal with these perks in your ranks. Is it possible that the SRS has to talk about it regularly as an opposition party, without being able to do anything? Finally, do you really believe that you will be able to look dignityfully at the people of Serbia in the eyes of the moment when the financial crisis, by October, takes its toll, when Serbia will no longer have anything to sell out to fill the budget gaps? Will you ever answer the question where the funds from the privatisation funds went missing? Will you ever be able to answer the question of how Serbia was stolen, how the workers were deceived? You know it all, you look at it every day, and these people who are victims of a terrible transition, i.e. horrible and arrogant behavior, have started to eat parts of their body, and that's what Serbia's signature, democratic Serbia, as you obviously wanted. The ninth year is the rule of parties that have come on the very wings of criticism of the totalitarian system, the criminal system, the Arkan and similar to it. Look now, these are figures that did not exist in Milosevic's time, these are such usurpations of the official position that were never even on the minds of Milosevic's time, at that totalitarian time. Look, the media that gave you the support to come to power, they're now talking about corruption in your ranks. It's, you can say, the cynicism of its kind. Perhaps we could talk about this cynicism for hours if it wasn't for one fact – that there is hunger in Serbia. In Serbia, parents cannot feed their children. In Serbia, the disabled are starving because there is no one to visit, because no one even knows what their number is. In Serbia, it is decided to be born after 30th, marriages are divorced because there is no job, and work cannot be done because only a few have a monopoly. It's Serbia as you, unfortunately, have signed. In addition to all the facts that are almost public secret, why has no institution really put themselves in that real campaign (how do you promise each time before the elections) of corruption and organised crime? There is only one answer – because you would have to arrest the most important names that make up power in Serbia. When we talked about what is systemic and most dangerous corruption, the crime on which the government rests in the false state of Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely no one launched any initiative to talk about it and take concrete action. Why is that? Can it be understood, can anyone in Serbia swallow that story, drink that story that arms trafficking, drug trafficking, organ trafficking can go unseen by any institution? I'm telling you there is no one in Serbia who can believe that story. But in Serbia, there is now one generic force, which by the end of the year will have nothing to lose, because so far everything has been kidnapped. This force, ladies and gentlemen, is the Serbian citizens, the force that has been historically recorded as the awakening of Serbia. At that moment, you all have to wonder what you skipped to do on behalf of those people who walked the streets of Belgrade, banged about drums, so on your back, on your torture, looking for a better life and the end of all wars and sanctions, brought you to power to ensure a man's life. It is the ninth year, you rule over how many Milosevics ruled. October 5th showed that the revolution was possible. That revolution was then carried out by the disreputed, hungry, barefoot and barefoot, and the next revolution will be carried out by those who no longer have hope and those who have lost everything. There will be no more compromise. This is not a warning, this is what the people in Serbia promise. Serbia is locked, closed; betting stations, pumps and banks are working. The only thing still works in Belgrade, and when the poor girl comes to Belgrade, then Gilas drives from Belgrade -- go back to where you came from. That's a fact. You remember the Roma settlement and you remember Roma. Serbia has become a dump of empty democratic promises, and that is a fact. Here, finally, and concrete data. I hope that the citizens of Serbia will have enough patience to listen to each individual name and each individual affair, because the source that is the signator of this data will be very important, and certainly not the source of the Serbian Radical Party. So Milan Beko and Miroslav Miskovic, by buying the "Luka Belgrade" company, took the obligation to perform port's work. However, tens of hectares will be built there, and according to changes to the General Urban Plan, luxurious housing complexes will be built. Petar Matic bought the Partizanka factory to produce socks. However, in that place, according to changes to the Detailed Urban Plan, instead of the factory there is a luxurious housing complex "Oasis". Once the biggest printing industry, the Bigges, bought it to print books, but as announced, a residential complex will be built there. Miroslav Miskovic bought the Autocommand company to deal with repairing motor vehicles. In that place, however, a large shopping mall will be built. Philip Ceptter bought the Shipyard to build ships, but by modifying the General Plan and that land is transformed from industrial to construction zone, so that instead of ships, they will make apartments. In 2007, the company "Vopeks Trade", which was registered for small fruit and vegetables trade, was bought by the Vunar Comb, which is located in downtown Belgrade. The founder of "Vopeksa" is, in fact, "Lumako" owned by Luke Belgrade, bought by Miskovic and Beko. The two thus bought a combination of wool - making companies that are engaged in the trade in fruit and vegetables, founded by Luka Belgrade! These are just some of the companies that are through privatisation, taking action or as a bankruptcy company sold to businessmen. But mostly none of them deal with what was the factory’s basic activity. The principle is mostly the same – the company or factory is too long, sometimes goes into bankruptcy, so the interested customer buys a failed company at low prices. Since the sale contract, even in the event of privatisation, obliges them to keep the activity of the purchased company or factory for only three or five years, during that time they are initiating a procedure to amend the detailed regulation plan. The city's assembly adopts a plan, so an industrial or economic zone is converted into city building land. So today they are in places where factories were built or plans to build luxury apartments. Workers, therefore, lost their jobs because the laws allowed businessmen not to buy the factory to recover the economy and start production, but to actually get an exclusive location by changing the detailed or general plan. It is also very important that Mrs Ljiljana Culic, a representative of the former factory "Inex - Partizanka", which speaks and testifies that "Partizanka" was founded in 1912 (and it has been in it since 1966) and has indeed been produced by the work of Partizanka workers. The sale of the stocking and tricottage industry "Inks - Partizanka" at an attractive Belgrade location, near Vuk's monument, is one example of how workers lost their jobs, while individuals, with the help of state institutions, made a huge profit – first the factory was introduced into bankruptcy, and sold as a failed factory and instead of recovery and investment in production, a new buyer built a luxury residential facility at the site of the factory. The bankruptcy was introduced in 2001. The bankruptcy at the factory was not introduced because of the corporate debt to the creditors, but because of the debt to the workers, otherwise, the owners of 44% of the capital, which had not been paid off. While workers were trying to find investors and creditors to start production, bankruptcy manager Milan Đuric absolutely did not react to these initiatives and in 2002 he set out to sell out the factory's assets by direct contract on 9 May 2002. Petar Matic through his firm "City real estate" delivers an offer, which is not related to the consolidation of production, but only to the purchase of business space. This offer was accepted and only 22 days later a contract was signed. The seller is listed as the bankruptcy manager Milan Djuric. What is also very important, and indeed another example of the haughty privatisations and the blatant wealth of certain families in Serbia, is that a building of eight thousand square meters near the Vuk monument was sold for only 90,000,000, but dinars! So, the luxury building, the popular Oazu, built the company Petra Matic in 2005 within the walls of the stocking and tricottage factory "Inks - Partizanka". So it's not even torn down, it's re-made, it's already exploited the existing facilities of the old factory! The sales contract shows that 8073 square meters were paid 90,000,000 dinars in six months of war. In this way, in fact, 161 euros per square cent was paid. When the apartments sold squares, it was 20 times more expensive. In addition to 6000 squares of living space, there are 1300 squares of business space, 2500 squares of underground garages, with 87 parking spaces. The apartments are between 50 and 250 square meters. The building permit was signed by then-Secretary of Urbanism Vuk Djurovic. Interestingly, the project "Oaza" was done by his own brother, Ognjen Djurovic, and former city architect, today a council member in the City Assembly, Djorđe Bobic. It is also very important, and as far as these stories are concerned, when Mr Bobic (in fact, these are the stenograms of a particular show that we present to Serbian citizens now, because they have no opportunity to send these) asked questions – how it is possible for the owner, or the state to sell the factory, to build a luxury business space at the place of the factory, and to really have no interest in moving the factory, to start production and to employ workers, then Djordje Bobic answered – none of the representatives of the competent institutions have the answer to the question why the state, if he already knows that at some good location there will be no factory left behind, selling the failed factory, instead of moving the factory somewhere to the periphery, or to sell to someone who really wants to start production, which workers would not lose their jobs, and then the land where the factory was at the auctionation, thus obtaining much more money for the budget. So this is almost amazing! It's amazing, it's hard to believe that someone who was a functioner and who was involved in this business actually confirms systemic corruption. Thus, in the most complex way possible, he confirmed that everyone participated in a full criminal activity, in renaming the purpose of the land, and thus influenced the personal wealth of the mentioned person and the poverty of such a group of workers. Let's move on. Workers, i.e. the union of former factory workers "Inex - Partizanka" addressed Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic's cabinet with one question – is it possible that economic land and factories could be converted into residential ones? Nenad Bogdanovic and his team did not have time to deal with this problem, but very quickly Mr. Bobic made progress in Belgrade's capital architect. It's also interesting next time. Before Matic officially bought the Partizanka building, a memo came to the Urbanist Institute on 22 May, asking the Institute to examine the possibility of building a building at the site of the factory. So, the memo says that the investor "City Real Estate" is also interested in changing the Detailed Urban Plan and that the Secretariat's position is that this idea should be supported if the planning documents allow it. There was then a detailed urban plan from 1977, which defined that there was a productive activity in the area. The place where the factory was becoming apartment space, through several city decisions. At the Urbanist Institute, they say the General Urban Plan, which was already in the construction phase, envisioned changing the purpose of the land at this location, and also envisioned the previous General Urban Plan, so it was possible to create these conditions and go to the investor to meet. This became a plan and programme, i.e. the scheme of how the factories were being shut down in the worst possible way, how the real war actually took place for the most exclusive and most luxurious business space in the metropolis and how they got rich, i.e. how capital was accumulated in the hands of certain individuals close to the authorities. It would also be very important to hear a finding by the profession, where it is said among other things that the whole mechanism is actually working, and that is what the workers of these factories know, and that is exactly the structure with which they most often address the SRS Parliament Club. These are the most common questions they ask whenever we are able to host certain shows, especially in major cities in Serbia. As I said, the formula is very simple, but terribly painful, because it left workers without monthly income and without what's called social and economic security. So first you buy a factory, then of course you pay people to move there for two or three years. During that time, those who want to build very expensive squares of exclusive residential and business space, create a possibility, therefore, to fix changes in the urban plan, purchase projects and everything else. It's just as long as it takes to prepare a particular facility that, most often, in the final collection, is a commercial, residential or business facility. Also, what is extremely significant, in terms of privatisation, was a very interesting statement from Mr. Vlahovic, who was on the issue of journalists involved in Eki Investment, who won the tender for "New Home", said – yes, we bought this company because we consider, or a consortium "Eki Investment", or "Nelt Companies", "Atache" and "Eki Investment", which have a third of the actions in "New Home"... The company was bought because of its potential, not only because of its basic business activity, because it is clear that the number of squares is completely pre-named in relation to the capacities "New Home", not only "New Home", but almost half of the furniture producers in Serbia can offer. Apparently, there has been frequent bankruptcy of a company on purpose. It is a very sad fact, which is rarely spoken of in very influential media, which is why many of the processes that are supposed to solve systemic corruption in the state of Serbia are being hampered and many of the people in their duties are being relieved. So, in addition to the fact that bankruptcy is deliberately driven so that the company loses value or has as little price on sale as possible, what is also very significant, and as far as state and public interest is concerned, is that the sale of large government capital. The State, not taking into account or taking into account only certain individual personal interests in bankruptcy proceedings, has itself given its property into depravity. It was only in 2004 that a bankruptcy act was passed in Serbia. According to the law, the bankruptcy director set up a bankruptly larger trade court. Trustees, i.e. those who need to get their money back from a bankrupt company, play a significant role in the bankruptcy process. The new law provided for a reorganisation in cases where the recovery of the debtor is possible, but also the sale of assets, if the company is over-indebted. So it was possible that the names of companies that are officially bankrupt often appear on boards of various construction sites as investors or co-investors. This is an example of one of the formerly large construction firms that ended up in bankruptcy, which is "Hydrotechnicals - Belgrade building". During the 1990s, the company was engaged in building apartments, and remains entitled to build about 20,000 squares of residential and business space at one of the most attractive locations in the city centre, in Slavija. At the time of Milosevic, "Hydrotechnika" received several attractive locations: Street Duke Step 127, Stajčka 244, Street Dimitria Tucovica, blocks 10 and 11, Slavija. Hydrotechnics is with debts, but also locations where tens of thousands of squares can be built, sold for about a million euros at the auction in 2004. Officially, the buyer was Mirko Rasic, and according to those who really knew him, the buyer was actually Philip Cepter. But only 18 months after buying the company was so in charge that it went bankrupt. The privatisation agency broke the contract with the buyer, and as top creditors, there are large construction firms, banks, but also Philip Cepter himself, who, according to company documents, is looking for about 300,000 euros. Trustees appointed Vasili Markovic as director who was once the director of the "Trubnik". However, the board of trustees decided to replace him very quickly because, as they claimed, they had no control over what this man was doing. So, I guess only some of you recognize the allegations of what I have now presented to the citizens of Serbia. The signer of this stenogram is, of course, Insider TV B 92. This has nothing to do with the sources of the SRS, this is also the story of television that has really given its best help in destroying the regime, the totalitarian, the corruption and crime scarred, Slobodan Milosevic. Nine years later, this television talk about the most unscrupulous corruption, systemic corruption and organised crime reaching the top of democratic power. These stenograms, the authenticity works, you can find them on site B 92. Since we've promised to talk about what's more rare, because we've taken the path that's more rare, thanks to our anti-corruption advice we've also come up with significant data. My manner is mostly to call on authentic sources and we use truly official state sources, and that's how it's going to be this time. Anyone with sufficient interest and will may request documentation from the SRS Anti-Corruption Council. I must announce that soon there will be a "white book" that testifies to (I will try to be politically correct and very decent) impoverishing Serbia, not to tell the thief, the abuse of official positions and the most complex case of systemic corruption. At the end of what we started as a campaign to expose the way people are stolen daily and brought, in fact, to the beggar stick, we're going to give concrete names to those who are signatories of poored and crippled Serbia, just because some democratic change, in fact, wanted to change the political elites, just because someone decided to take over the levers of power. This is the answer why Serbia has no reform, why there is no budget spending in Serbia, why there is no democratic procedure in democratic Serbia for all taxpayers to see how their funds are spent. What is worse, it is also a signature that Serbia has no will and does not want to deal with vulnerable categories of the population, which will say that it has written off the entire human rights corpus of those residents who have no way of fighting for it. Therefore, when it comes to the report of the SRS Anti-Corruption Council, it concerns the findings of the budgetary inspection, for example, regarding the abuse, i.e. the non-intentional spending of the budget funds found by the inspectors of the budgetary inspection. I can hardly define which anti-corruption council report I will first announce to the citizens of Belgrade, as well as the whole of Serbia, who are following us now, but it would be very interesting to see what corruption in healthcare looks like – you will admit that this is a very sensitive area because of the health of all of us – why the state of health is as it is and why people have a problem in an adequate way to resolve their health problems, which are growing precisely because of the man who visited the country over whom he signed criminal aggression today, and thus demanded to extend the bombing of the poor uranium and completely devastates the state of Serbia's citizens. Thanks to the dedicated work, in the first place, young Ivan Ninić, who has been doing this work for years, preparing a very serious building for the "white book" of the SRS, we have come up with the following data. We're going to give you just a few examples, and this is really very important, first because of the citizens of Serbia. It's about, say, the Belgrade House of Health of Vračar. Why is this home of health important, and why is this example of health corruption important? Because the government's budget inspection found who was responsible for the accidental spending of funds and abuse of positions, and these people were not responding, they were taking an adventure. It's an outrageous example of stimulating everything that is bad and rewarding corruption. It is, in fact, the answer to all the dilemmas – the state of Serbia, the government has enabled systemic corruption. Let's go back to a specific case. At that time, Dr. Snezana Stevanović, a member of the Democratic Party, was at the head of the House of Health Vracar. She was appointed Director of the Vračar Health House on 5 February 2003. The post was held until 29 September 2006, after which it (so, October 2006) was appointed as city secretary at the Belgrade Health Department. What is very important is in the report by the Ministry of Finance's budget inspection, which visited the Vračar Health House on 25 September 2006, and thus the budgetary control of the operations of this health institution lasted until 10 April 2007, when a certain record was drawn up, that is, the finding. The number of this record is, I'm saying this with the intention of seeing that it's an authentic document, 401/2006-09. Budgetary control included Dr. Stevanovic's management period, as well as her successors, Dr. Vesna Tesic. What is very significant, according to the findings of the budget inspection, the Director of the House of Health Vračar made astronomical bills for mobile phones on the burden of budget funds, so in August 2005, its account amounted to nearly 10,000 dinars, and in July 2006, its account was paid at 24,000 dinars. It should be mentioned that this was actually not allowed by any internal act of the House of Health, which violates the Budgetary System Act. Also, no acts in the House of Health have been approved by Vračar, nor have there been fair individual costs for the employment seminars, which cost 831,000 dinars in 2005, in 2006. Traveled to Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, in Čanj. No travel orders have been issued for most of the journey, nor are costs justified in a legal manner, which also violates the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. So under this leadership... What the inspection found was that Vračar's health home in 2005 had the cost of obtaining gasoline of 1.2 million dinars, without carrying out the public procurement process. In doing so, gas stamps were spent without keeping track of the records and, of course, did not follow any acts on the use of official cars. According to budget inspection data, Vračar's Health House received donations from the city of Belgrade in March 2005 amounting to three million dinars for the purchase of medical equipment for the laboratory. The second donation, amounting to 800,000 dinars, came to this health care facility in 2005 from the Old Town municipality, for the purpose of buying a costume live machine. All three public procurements for which these funds have been spent have been realised contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, according to the Budgetary Inspector's findings. Also, budget inspectors found that in March 2006, the city of Belgrade carried out a transfer of funds to the Vračar Health House of two million dinars for the needs of pump and valve repairs, however, the then management spent this money on a non-intentional, and that on reconstruction of toilets in the House of Health, with violation of the Public Procurement Act. The works were agreed on at 1,373,500 dinars, amounting to nearly 1,810,000 dinars was paid, which is more than the price of the contract for 440,000 dinars, in violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Given that I will not have enough time to give all examples that have never been talked about to Serbian citizens, I will set an example of corruption in education. It's about Law-Birotenic School, which is the Belgrade Law and Business School, based on Svetogorska Street, number 48. It's about finding a budget inspection. We received this analysis thanks to the dedicated work of our anti-corruption council and Mr. Ninić. According to this document, in law school, in just two years, the law has been broken even 138 times. The 7.5m dinars were originally found to be unintendedly spent, so that later, after the appeal procedure, Minister Diana Dragutinovic would establish the non-intentional spending of 2.9m dinars and no one would be responsible for that. In his report, the budgetary inspector states that the school's director illegally disposes of school space, i.e. by school property, illegally increased salaries to individual employees, bought furniture beyond the school's financial plan, and on the burden of funds collected from students, created schools, also past the financial plan, illegally increased his and his assistants' journals for excursions and on the burden of student money. No one answered for this either. The budget inspection also found that this school director spent school money on cafes and that according to a large number of invoices, his favorite restaurant was "Madera", and that "Madera" invoiced the school even a tip that this director approved by his signature, and the school or students paid for. As regards corruption in public procurement, the Legal and Business School, according to inspection findings, continuously violated the Law on Public Procurement (ordinarily, it is one of the most common sources of corruption), in cases where a tender for student excursions, a tender for a professor's trip, a tender for painting schools, tenders for the purchase of computers and computer equipment, etc. By solving the school's infringements, the school's director has been fined with 83,000 dinars, head of accounting with 50,000 dinars, as a legal entity with 300,000 dinars, and that is because of illegality in the work of the school's director. On the occasion of the case, Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic made a solution that ordered the school to return 2.9m dinars of non-intentional funds to the budget. But what she got in response to this was that the director simply didn't want to execute this warrant. At the same time, in addition to all the documents and inspections, the school board refused to discuss the Director's replacement because, in the opinion of that managing body, the Director was not in any particular case responsible for anything. Let's move on. When it comes to corruption in local self-government, the SRS strives to read concrete data from day to day, concrete evidence such as the finding of a budget inspection without "spinning" the media and not speculating events far from the truth. In 2004, in the central Belgrade municipality of Stari Grad, the budgetary inspection found that the municipality illegally spent money from the budget in 2003. So the inspectors found that the municipal leadership, instead of applying the basis for paying salaries and earning employees established by the Serbian government by its regulation, had adopted its own rules on salaries, allowances, fees and other receipts of officials and officials in the municipal administration. Such a sublegal act directed by the ruling party has only served as a front for illegal spending of municipal money and party corruption. Let's see how much this directly meant less secure and less worthy way of living the inhabitants of Old Town. The Old Town municipality's budget in 2003 was damaged by 598,000 dinars because the municipal government illegally paid the monthly transport costs of officials at higher amounts than they cost monthly tickets for city transport. The order to return these funds to the municipal register within six months was given by the budgetary inspection. When it comes to the municipality of Novi Belgrade, in control of the spending of money in the municipality of Novi Belgrade during 2005 and 2006, the budgetary inspection put together its mandate in January 2007. According to inspections, in just two years, the New Belgrade municipality's budget has been damaged by the incredible 63.3m dinars, and in this case, on the basis of illegal bills of payment of municipal salaries, and again, the inspection has ordered that these funds return to the municipal budget within three months. So, the democratic leadership of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, headed by then-President Zeljko Ozegovic (you can also find this in the report of the budgetary inspection, as each name is listed) when the billing and payment of salaries for municipal officials and officials properly applied the basis for payment established by the Serbian government by its provision and regulation. The mistake was that the municipal leadership had deliberately and deliberately added stimulating supplements to existing coefficients in employee solutions, which did not have a foothold in the law. This is a quote from the budget inspection report. In addition to wage illegality, the municipality of Novi Belgrade carried out several purchases of computer equipment worth as many as 3.3 million dinars and furniture worth 3.3 million dinars in an illegal manner, following a three-supply public procurement procedure, although a high-value procurement process had to be carried out with offers in closed envelopes, which severely violated the Public Procurement Act. The Vashhar municipality. The central Belgrade municipality of Vračar in public is said to be indeed the foothold of the democratic government in Belgrade. The budget inspection in May 2005 compiled its report on financial control for the period 2004. As regards the verification of the legality of the accounts and the payment of monthly earnings to municipal officials and officials, the inspection found that DS personnel in this municipality applied different rules than those laid down by the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. Thus, the profit accounting coefficients were established by the municipal regulation on the titles, occupations and salaries of employees and posted persons in the management of Vračar municipality, which was in colluding with the current Serbian Government Regulation. In addition, Vračar municipality management, instead of applying a rate of 0.4% to increase earnings based on past work for each year, unlawfully applied a higher rate, more precisely than 0.5%, which damaged the municipality's budget by as much as 1.7 million dinars. In these two ways, by increasing the coefficient of past work, municipal officials and officials have been illegally increased earnings in different amounts, with the Vračar municipality budget damaged by a total of 17.4 million dinars in 2004. The deadline for these funds to be returned to the municipality's register was six months, and was prescribed by the budgetary inspection. The Sava Veneto municipality. In August 2006, inspectors controlled the financial business and the work of the municipal government, led by the Democratic Party, in 2005. The control found that the members of the Democratic Party in this municipality, contrary to the current coefficient regulation and the contrary to the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, made a linear payment of imaginary 30 % stimulative supplements with the basic earnings of employees in the municipal administration. Such actions damaged the Sava Venac municipality's budget by 8.4 million dinars, how illegally paid, or overpaid during 2005, on the burden of citizens of the Belgrade municipality. In addition to the illegal increase in wages, the inspection found that the municipal government illegally increased the earnings of employees who had high professional training, up to 20% based on the quality of work or performance. With these payments, the Sava Venac municipality's budget has been damaged by an additional 1.8 million dinars. The budget inspection ordered the return of 10.2 million dinars to the Sava Venac municipality budget within three months, given that the funds were not allowed out of the register in this way. With regard to public procurement carried out by the Sava Venac municipality, the budgetary inspection found that the municipal government held a tender for public procurement of services for needs, quote, "the destruction of illegally raised facilities and works carried out to remove kiosks and municipal facilities from public areas". A 5.7m-dollar deal has been allocated to the Avangard company in Belgrade. According to the inspectors, it was found that the tender and the contract implemented was concluded in an illegal manner, contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Control also found that the Sava Venac municipality used physical and technical security services from Belgrade, for which 3,063,000 dinars were paid. Since physical and technical security services are subject to public procurement, the inspection found that the municipality did not conduct a public procurement procedure at all, in which it would choose the most favourable provider to provide security services. The exact same case was with the purchase of office materials, a total of 2.4 million dinars. According to the inspection report, the budget inspection found a breach of the Public Procurement Act in the implementation of the tender for the delivery and installation of temporary facilities (popular: kiosk) worth nearly 40 billion dinars, conducted by the president of the Sava Venac municipality, Tomislav Djordjevic. The exact same case of violations of the Public Procurement Act was recorded in construction works worth 10.9 million dinars. Starship community. The Belgrade Municipality of Zveztar is also one of the staunches of democratic power. As it has been found that the municipal government, headed by President Milan Popovic, has damaged the Starmaker's budget by as many as 16.7 million dinars, and by illegal inflating municipal salaries, the inspection has ordered that this sum be returned to the municipal register within three months. The method of discharge of the municipal budget was the same as in the Old Town municipality. Once tried the mechanism is always applied. The rules on calls, occupations and salaries of employees and appointed persons in the municipal administration – based on this pamphlet, by law, the profit calculation coefficient in the Municipality of Zvezda is further increased by 6, 10 or 15%, thus increasing the coefficient once again by 30%. The same year 2004, according to the inspection report, the budget of the Municipality of Starar was damaged by two million dinars, as paid to employees in the municipality on behalf of some imaginary and illegal exercise of the right to protection at work, i.e. to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences. The budget inspection gave the same period of three months for illegally paid funds to return to the municipal budget during this discovery of a violation of the law. According to the budget inspection, almost all supplies of goods and services financed by the Zvezda municipality in 2004 were made past the execution of the tender, regardless of whether it was small or high-value purchase. Thus, for example, the cost of preserving the environment in 2004 amounted to 11.9 million dinars, so the inspection by the method of random sampling made an insight into the individual costs incurred by the municipal budget team and the absolute lawlessness and corruption of the municipal government, which knowingly violated the Public Procurement Act, was discovered. The budget inspection found that for the purchase of office materials in the Municipality of Zvezda is not implemented at all, although the total value of the annual purchase exceeds one million dinars, as determined by the Budget Act at that time as a limit. In this way 4.7 million dinars were illegally spent in 2004. A particularly interesting case of lawlessness in public procurement, once again a democratic one, is the destruction of lawless buildings, costing the municipal budget 10.6m dinars in 2004. According to the inspection report, for these works the municipal authorities did not hold a high-value tender, based on which they would choose the most favourable bidder in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. So, if we were to add all these amounts, it would be quite clear that Belgrade would not have a problem with kindergartens, such as the Voždovac municipality, where we almost found that three suburban settlements were gravitating one kindergarten, it's about 20,000 inhabitants, that the kindergarten is completely abandoned, that in that kindergarten 500 children are on hold, that public green area around the garden "Neven" is being usurped by certain people performing construction works, that the fence has been torn down, and that where children are in the evenings the junkies are gathering, that the TV crew has skipped the syringes with us. The municipal government instead of caring for the youngest, which were pre-election promises, looked to build a fountain, and in doing so, it purposelessly spent funds. This is a picture and an opportunity for Belgrade. Let's add up all these amounts and see if all these vulnerable categories of population in the territories of these municipalities would have problems with everyday survival. I guarantee you you wouldn't. It is obvious that the government has grown into a service of personal interest, not a service of citizens' interest, and that is what citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens should have in mind. Instead, we most often have a media campaign that, without any concrete evidence (not to mention that all levers of power were available to democratic authorities), without any concrete solution to criminal proceedings, is a radical power of classification in a corrupt radical government. Let's see if there's a report of a budget inspection saying that in the municipality of Zemun the funds were wasted without purpose, that the municipality of Zemun had to return the funds to the register and that in any way any warning was ever made. I'm glad that here at the SRS Parliament Club, the former president of the Zemun municipality, who can also confirm these allegations. The results of the budget inspections are publicly available data. Let's finally talk about real categories. Let's finally talk about the real facts. The truth is, we didn't take down the kiosks, we didn't take down the temporary facilities. You know why? Because these objects supported one's families, because these objects, Mr. Milivojevic, with that smile on their faces, supported people who had trouble surviving one day. I'm sorry, we have human life above all else. It's the only thing you honor us for making Zemun a kiosk town. What did Belgrade look like these days? From war - affected areas, families hurried by running away with their heads regardless. The truth is, we have received them, we have plotted the land, we have given them life, we have given them life, we have given them the opportunity to live a worthy life. We admit it, it's our fault. What are you doing? You have a situation at the Blue Bridge, the Vozdovac municipality. You have destroyed existence, the source of income to certain people. Six hundred or seven hundred families lived on it. Six died due to such brutal and arrogant authorities in the Vozhdovac municipality territory, six people died in Serbia because one decree decided to take away their incomes. We here, colleagues, are talking about the findings of the budget inspection, because you in the municipalities of Belgrade have increased your wages. The funds were to be given to disabled and single mothers, refugees and displaced persons who had been placed in barracks of certain factories on Belgrade's territory. Which one of you ever went to see five people live in a small room? They have no way of getting out of that vicious cycle of poverty. The truth is, some of the experts of the famous Group 484 were at these locations and could never find a common language with local authority because you were interested in pay coefficients. The leader is a huge dump and our campaign was based on a road map left by a democratic government that has ruled over Vozdovac for 13 years. What was the result? Mr. Lukacevic is on his way and now, after 13 years, clean dumps, promises citizens that the kindergarten will also have its own fence. What's the matter so far? One of the most beautiful, largest Belgrade municipalities has been completely neglected. It's what people on the Leader know, it's their way of life, and they have no one to turn to for it. Objects are collapsing without people informing themselves of it. He's building in Belgrade whoever he wants. Abuse of power at every turn. No one was responsible for anything like that. Then what are we talking about? Let us discuss, cancel parliament, undo local authorities and say -- Boris Tadic is ruling Serbia, Serbia is under occupation and the end of the story. Because in the end, it all comes down to it. If we as an opposition don't have a chance to fight this, except we're going to tax each name this way, present the problem, risking being mentioned because we're fighting for every man who's been taken from a decent life, what's left to an ordinary citizen? What remains of an ordinary mortal who has to do more work in Serbia, hiding from his neighbors because his pride is threatened, would he not provide his children with bread? If that were true talk and the findings of what we received as a letter... I'm sorry that I wasn't there when it came to the RRA, but, among other things, all those who are petty regularly address the Serbian Radical Party, because at least they know we're going to mention them and hope that someone will, at some point, just do their job, have the prosecutor start real activity and have certain people answer for this kind of behavior. Among other things, we received a letter from the owners and workers of radio and television stations who are soon threatening closure because of the haughtiness of the president and deputy president of the RRA. We've read part of the letter, we won't repeat it, but one part of us has remained in debt for this debate, and that is also evidence of non-intentional spending of funds and corruption. Honestly, people at the Anti-Corruption Agency want every possible good and happiness, because they're gonna need it. I'm afraid they won't be able to keep their heads if they deal with these problems. Among other things, what they've asked here is an open question... Let me tell you, this same letter was given to ministers in ministries, all parliamentary groups, members of the RRA Council, the media and all relevant structures of society. Who was talking about it? They have asked here, I think, a rhetorical question, but they want to draw the public's attention to how it actually works and lives in Serbia, and among other things, are we paying for the Agency's leadership, in the wake of the economic crisis, to rent an entire floor in the building on the 2nd Street of Vasa Čapica, at the price of 180,000 dinars for 2009; do we pay that floor to be equipped with expensive furniture and equipment at the cost of 50,000 euros? Or do we pay to employ more than 20 new people at the Radiodifuge Agency since the beginning of 2008, including more than 20 people from Novi Sad, what does it mean to pay additional bills and travel expenses in addition to high wages? They also asked a public question – do we pay that the deputy president of the 2008 Radiodifuge Agency Council spends more than 10,000 euros on bills in cafes, on daily and official travel expenses in the country, to use the Agency's car as a private and to establish a working relationship with the Agency, although the Law on the Broadcasting Agency prohibits a member of the Council from being employed? They also asked a question, a public question, to the public shame of competent institutions – are we paying to spend a delegation of the Broadcasting Agency close to 25,000 euros on an unnecessary trip to China and Hong Kong? It is unclear what experience a delegation of an independent Serbian regulatory body should exchange in China when there is no independent regulatory body there. One of the conclusions of this letter was the budget rebalance. The owners of radio and television stations say that panic has affected those in charge of this agency, in fact, the president and his deputy, so they are trying to urgently collect debts from our broadcasters that we owe for the past few months, caused by the fact that the money they legally had to pay back has already been spent and harshly broken by the law; or they are simply satisfied that they must soon explain to their concerned workers that the Agency has bankrupted. This is also not the source of the SRS, but the owners of radio and television stations that are located before closing. Another source, the address is, of course, the Anti-Corruption Council, and it is the subject of an assessment of the regularity of procedures for the allocation of funds to the National Investment Plan for equipment of physical laboratories. On 14 May 2008, Dr. Ljubinko Ignjatovic, scientific adviser to the Institute of Physics, addressed the Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflict of Interest, pointing to possible abuse of official position in the allocation of funds to the National Investment Plan for the Equipment of Physical Laboratorys in Scientific Institutions. Dr Zoran Popovic, a scientific adviser to the Institute of Physics (and this is the responsibility entrusted to him by the Government of the Republic of Serbia), led exclusively by party membership. So Dr Popovic is a member of G 17 Plus. The same document was sent to the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Serbia. The Council reached out to the public because the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest refers to public officials, not to the bodies in which public officials are elected. Meanwhile, from the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Serbia, Dr. Ljubinko Ignatovic received accurate amounts of equipment obtained. Comparing them with an official list of equipment published on the Ministry of Science site, it came up with results given in documents on the Council's anti-corruption website. It is easy to see that Dr Zoran Popovic, as RS government trustee, had the resources of the National Investment Plan for 2007 by assigning 1,278,000 euros to his project. The sum is exactly a third of the funds for the purchase of equipment throughout the Republic of Serbia. The pool is larger than the funds allocated to the entire Vinca Institute, the Faculty of Physical Sciences in Belgrade and the Astronomical Observatory in Belgrade. The publicly declared allocation criteria are obviously not respected. The distribution was carried out in an extremely non-transparent manner, with a direct contract with Dr Zoran Popovic. Dr. Ljubinko Ignatovic says, quotes: "I consider this distribution to be a serious violation because many laboratories have not received anything and have been left with equipment over 50 years old. The severity of the infringement is particularly evident if the assessment of the scientific and research work carried out by the Ministry of Science depends entirely on the published works, which is directly related to the equipment... "(President: Mrs. Ragush, time. You have ten more minutes of authorized representative, will you put that together? Here, I'm done. Yeah, if you don't mind. (President: Please. We still have a deal to make. ) "... which is directly related to the equipment of the scientific laboratory. Since Dr Zoran Popovic has made the distribution of the National Investment Plan's resources as an exponent of the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Serbia, this should also be considered by the Ministry alone responsible for the kind of discrimination that has been carried out. Any evaluation of scientific work in conditions of discrimination and favouring party, similar staff becomes completely pointless, and then the question arises what is the perspective of the Serbian scientific mission? "We are fond of this fact that finally people who are recognizable by intellectualism (are not very recognizable by the public attitude) are increasingly publicly addressed because of terrible discrimination and terrible abuses, taking care of only what perspectives are not to be touched, such as Serbian science. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, you have had the opportunity to hear truly irrefutable evidence of something called abuse of official position, abuse and illegal spending of budget funds. There is finally a response to why Serbia, why parliament has not received an audit of Serbia's final budget and public enterprises. What Serbian citizens should definitely know now – we will not give up, this is just the start of a campaign that will come directly and specifically to each individual name. It will also be, believe me, the building for competent institutions, when they are in Serbia and when they are made, because now in Serbia, unfortunately, institutions only exist on paper. I'm going back to the beginning, it's a completely pointless nature of Parliament, and it's completely pointless our function. We adopt a huge number of laws, which have no chance of being implemented in practice. They have no chance, because there are no institutions that can stand by their strength, reputation and, above all, by trusting them to implement what Serbia should do in order to put the size of the countries in order, as it is by nature, what Serbia should bring standards before the status, but serious, economically strong, national strong countries, not priority EU members. It seems to me that the citizens, very likely, will now understand complete nonsense and see, of course, the nature of the complete occupation. On the one hand, institutions are at war within a system called Serbia and no one is responsible for it. On the other hand, you see such obvious connections between the tycoon and the government, and for that absolutely no one answers. Above all, there is a citizen, who loses more and more every day and has no one to protect him. I believe that the public in Serbia, regardless of how it was decided in many elections to come, is quite clear only one thing – that what she wished for on October 5th, nine years later she did not get. It did not win, because new economic and political elites were created, and that was the only element of the revolution that came on the wave of the Western project in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19627	Thank you. The basis for Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's report is a replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19628	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, in political practice, it is known that political parties that fail to achieve their electoral goals in the elections, electoral programmes have the right to be angry, have the right to declare victory after the election, but cannot form power because most of them are needed to form power. It is the citizens who decide to whom and how to support, who in this country will have a majority and who will rule this country. I'm reporting from Mrs. Marina Ragush's replica. Miss Ragush, it's very good to have that morale that you preach, but unfortunately, the fact that you don't adhere to that morale where you exercise authority. For your information, the SRS participates in the exercise of power in the town of Krusevec, unfortunately many Krusevljan and that part of Serbia. The whiskey bill, which was drunk in the maintenance of the beach volleyball event in Kruševec (67 liters of whiskey in four hours), is enormous for one poor city; the bill for the cheerleaders dancing in the town of Kruševec on Mimosa Day, at the initiative of the president of the SRS, is thousands of euros, and citizens are barely putting an end to the end. Not to mention other expenses incurred by one unreasonable local self-government in the town of Krusevec. On the other hand, when you're talking about leases, I understand that you're an expert on leases, look only at the price of the Master's rent, and then at the price of the magistrate, you'll know whether something's wrong or not. When you talk about people who are refugees, visit many refugees, and you should visit them. I'm sorry these people are refugees. People from the Democratic Party waited for them in 1995 at the border crossing with Croatia and offered water, bread, food; I do not know where you were then and where your party colleagues were and what you were saying to those people. I know that my friends and godmothers, refugees from Kosovo, were imprisoned here in Raška in the textile combination for eight days, in the wire, without water, without food, and then in power was not the Democratic Party. I know you're angry that there's no way your ax can get in the honey. Here's the local election on June 7th. The axes that fall into the honey tree don't intersect. It's easy to notice a thorn in a democratic eye, but first look at the forest of balvana in your eyes, so try that ax, which cannot fall into your honey, to cut it. June 7th is a local election. I know it will be a difficult defeat of the SRS, because citizens tell you that in Kovin and Vrnjačka Banja, where there are more registered lists than you win votes. You're always there, first there are more invalid ballots than you win, and then the SRS... (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you, I know you have a problem with SNS. I invite you to come to the town of Kruševac on June 8th and see what the city in which the SRS participates in the exercise of power looks like. I will host you, I very much respect you, I respect you, you are a very dear colleague, come to me to recover from the electoral defeat in Zemun and Voždovac in the town of Kruševac and to see what the city where you exercise power looks like, so apply all the knowledge of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19629	Please, time's up. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. The basis for reporting is the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's true that there are people who can't understand some reality in politics, but that's not a big problem, it can be overcome; it's a much more difficult problem when people can't understand things at all or go over them in the way the Democratic Party does. For the nine years since the Democratic Party in power, Serbia has, by the way, been completely destroyed. The value held by Serbia in 2001 was about 60 billion euros, which is how it is estimated. It is almost complete, or 70% of that value has been sold for about two billion and seven hundred thousand euros. There is a lot of evidence that says that the Democratic Party has preceded it. Among other things, you could hear it based on this data from Marina Ragush. If you do not believe the data of Marine Ragus, you should probably trust your previous prominent members, such as Goran Knezevic, Mayor of Zrenjanin, who has been found extremely large sums of the euro so far in some vaults, as was found by late Nenad Bogdanovic, as Stanko Subotic Cane recently said that he gave more than 10m euros to the Democratic Party, and he is not the only one. Just remember how the paved roads began in 2001 in Serbia, how the Surcinians did it, how the equipment imported by the Surcinians started, so remember "The mouths", so remember Luke, then Beocinski cements, and Cementares in Popovac, and remember all the thiefes that were done. There's one more thing I need to tell you. After locusts, something remains, and after you "yellow" this Serbia will be left with nothing, and that is Serbia's biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19631	The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a proposal from the President of the Republic for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. From the biography we have for Professor Radmila Vasic, we can really see that this is a correct proposal and personally NS has nothing against this proposal. I would like to say about all these events, the laws that we are passing, as my colleague said before me – are practically inapplicable. It's completely illogical that special organizations, in this case, the Anti-Corruption Agency... Practically, in its structure and bodies that will lead it, we have some conflict of interest, and that agency should deal with conflict of interest. It is unacceptable, and New Serbia has repeatedly pointed out when we passed this law, that the members of the Administrative Committee are on this committee, that the President of the Republic is making one proposal, and the Government. The essence of any particular organisation is that it is a state regulatory body, as a special organisation that exactly accounts for the government, but must absolutely be independent. I ask the question, how will this agency be independent when we absolutely see that members of the board, elected tomorrow by the director of that agency, are practically asking those who exercise executive power, and of course also legislative? You need to apply the principle as when the judges are elected – you cannot choose judges who are party members. Because if he's a member of the Administrative Board, he's a member of some party. A similar situation will be at the High Council of the Judiciary tomorrow, and we also pointed out that those who sit here, who decide and choose, should not sit in the High Council of the judiciary, because they directly decide on the choice of judges, and we know that due to the law we have passed, there is practically a whole recapitulation waiting for us and a whole new electoral system when it comes to courts. The other problem is the hoarding of the state apparatus. We're practically in a situation where, based on every law we've passed, an agency will immediately break down. We have the Traffic Act – again agency; we have any law – other agency. We'll have so many agencies in this country that they'll just eat themselves. A major attack on parliament is being made, demanding a reduction to 150, 120 MPs. I ask a question -- what about this number of agencies, what about this number of ministers? It's such a big machine that it's practically unsustainable for any country, let alone for a country like Serbia. In certain countries of Europe, since we are all struggling to enter this Europe, we have a situation that even when there are a large number of ministries, agencies or special regulatory bodies, they are at least evenly distributed on the territory of the country. I ask the question – if we already have this number of agencies, why don't we bring a number of agencies or special organizations down to Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Čačak, Valjevo, Sombor, Subotica, or bring them closer to the profession? If we have a machinery industry in Nis, then we need an agency that's related to us to profile there, because in that city, we have a frame that will deal with that problem. This is how we have a situation so that we can unwittingly build up a huge state-owned apparatus in Belgrade. It's something that's certainly not good, because we know that I have a big problem when any agency or organization is forming, a problem with space, and they start to work. You know how nice it would be if some agency went to Saturday, Novi Sad, Nis or any city in Serbia. There, local self - administrations would be eager to give room for something to live in that city and perhaps 50 people would find a job in these agencies. This is one serious grudge, and I suggest that we think about it carefully, if this number of agencies is already piled up, and most often laws have been applied since 2012, 2014. One day when we join the EU, my proposal should be considered, and we have a situation to think about these days, to regionalise Serbia, to share it. Let's not share Serbia, Serbia should be unique; let's keep the state apparatus evenly distributed. There are more problems and we're late with a lot of things. We're late for the election of five judges of the Constitutional Court. Judges in the Constitutional Court are practically in incomplete composition; only those elected in parliament and those elected by the President of the Republic are working, but those the profession should be chosen have not yet been chosen. We see today that the President of the Republic has a need to interfere with the executive government – the President of the Infrastructure Council, opens corridors... It's all right, but I would suggest that the President of the Republic establish an emergency high agricultural council. For what reason - we have seen in the means of informing that today the President of the Republic publicly boasted that our guest, who is in Serbia today, Mr Biden, will host traditional Serbian products, protruding, squeamish, kamack, cheese, prosciutto. Great, it's all a Serbian brand, it's something Serbia is willing to offer, not only to host, but to export from Serbia, but to do all that, someone needs to have hearing. Given that the president is extremely active these days, as I said, tours the corridors, runs this great Infrastructure Council, I strongly recommend that he take a walk with the prime minister and resolution ministers of agriculture and trade in Serbia's hill-mounted areas, to visit the bathing villages, villages in Golia, villages in the Vidic Mountains, Rudna, in Zlatibor, to see what happens to people there, with peasants who, in late years of severe torment, produce their products, have to throw their tones because they have no one to sell. It's a shame and a shame. We know that we boast that we will host our traditional products, and we have no ear to help these people, even if they can't sell... As we have seen in the means of public information, they have great pains to carry away from their village, so as not to pollute the environment, and to throw that cheese into some shale. It is a disgrace and a shame, food is thrown in Serbia, and many families have nothing to live on and starve on. Once again, I would like the President of the Republic with resolute ministers to visit these areas to see how hard people live, in which years they are willing to do something, to produce something. There are old people left in those mountainous and mountainous areas anyway. And there are more and more older people in the plains because young people don't want to live in the country and produce, because they have no one to place. In the end, I want to say that New Serbia has nothing personal against this proposal, the candidate is certainly competent, but we remain that it is a shame and a shame for Serbia that in the days of the crisis that Serbia and the whole world are facing, we are building up this large-scale state apparatus with this number of agencies, with this number of officials, and this is happening suddenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19633	Thank you. Just to let you know we're in direct transmission by 2:00. The word has been given by the head of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's Tomislav Nikolic. You'll have to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this item of the agenda puts the debate in a number of directions. The very act of electing a new member, because a member who was elected months ago resigned points in several directions: did Mrs Sonja Licht resign because only a few months after the election realized she could be in conflict of interest? Did Mrs. Sonja Licht realize for a few months there that society was corrupted beyond measure, so she gave up being a member? Or did she realize that she could make a lot more money by staying in public life without the government's obligations? This is a disgrace for the President of the Republic, who should have thought about when he proposed the candidate. Why do we have to call upon the Assembly after a few months to correct the mistakes of the President of the Republic, who should have known himself, if there really is a conflict of interest, that such a person does not represent? On the other hand, there's been a story of bribery and corruption in the state. In that I don't want to be a judge between the two sides that have been arguing here about who could have been more affected at what level. I'm not a judge, I don't have a red scarf like Ibrahim Rugova, and I have no intention of broadcasting a single television, which I've been told is treasonous and that I love her most. The synopsis of its shows is available to all Serbian citizens and there is nothing to add. The basic conclusion is that society is completely affected by corruption, that nine years did not occur in the shift of power and that if we proceed to this shift of power in due course it will not come. If the entire developed democratic world knows that the condition for democracy is the fight against bribery, corruption, crime, the regular shift of power, and even the most developed states that don't have a lot of economic problems, so in the event of the election of the President of the United States, you knew that after a Republican, no matter what it is called and what it looks like, as you now know that after the democratic term, the president will surely be a Republican, because it is the basis for democracy, then the question arises who is in Serbia in the interest of not being changed. To those who are in power – yes, it is true. Who would risk going to the elections at a time when 126 MPs can gather, spread out to public enterprises, ministries, to take everyone out of an increasingly modest state budget as far as possible, to continue to rule, to fall into the ministerial post as if someone from the ringished him, so where he falls, that's what he's an expert for. That's why we've been looking at one of the same ministers for nine years, the same people who are ruining both Serbia's economy and Serbian morality, which may be even harder. You'll find it harder and harder to find a man who works fairly hard to earn something, because he sees that the unfair work of many people garners millions, and they're still in office, still driven by cars, still being provided by a police escort, still being synonym for the citizens who chose them. At the local level, it's no less, it's just options are less. In all municipalities, even in municipalities where those who attack the Republic government are in power, each person takes as much action as he can. There are data on this, so some parties at local level are going very badly. Their most exposed people have also been cut into some kind of bribery, corruption, and crime, or they have easily come to a location or privilege or space. There's information about this that some people keep in the safe, to get them out when they need them against these people. As long as they are good to those who are in power, who allow whenever they get stuck to do some work, they will not be called. The question arises why do some opposition representatives not want the opposition to come to power and why do they thus contribute to the extension of Serbia's agony and survival in the power of those who are very bad? Is there a opposition party waiting to win 50% of the vote? And their grandkids will be waiting for 50% of the votes. Is he perhaps waiting to lead some kind of coalition in the opposition? It's an understandable wish, only behind it should be the power of the voters. Is there anyone in the opposition waiting for the SNS to disappear? And his grandkids will wait for it. So, when we realized that this behaviour in politics allows the DS to continue to rule, we decided to go where there was no road at all, to show Serbia that a political party can be formed that will stand in the end and Dinkic, and Djelic, and Tadic, and Vlahovic and all those publicly told in Serbia that they are the cause of all our troubles. Our wish is that, from the position of the second political party, after the election we will be the first party in power and we will do everything to be the first. We offered opposition representatives to defeat power. They won't, they don't have to. Says one proverb - I fell, I rose. But whoever's in opposition and doesn't want to bring down power doesn't have to deal with politics. Things are clear here. If this composition of government remains, and after the next elections, nothing remains from Serbia. I do not expect people to be like some, nor should some of them be put to the head of this nation to perform certain things. I don't praise what happened on October 5th, it's the hardest thing that's happened to us, but some people have learned that it can happen again. That is why, at this time, when we all plead for the fight against bribery, corruption and crime, for the fight for better Serbia, for the fight for Serbia that will preserve Kosovo and Metohija, for the fight for Serbia that will be a member of the EU and to co-operate with all countries in the world, there is only one way -- to divide ourselves into power and opposition. We were determined by the moment we were formed because we wanted to be an opposition that the government would fear. I think that's what we're gonna do. Then let those who have been corrupt and those who have stolen and those who have sold in vain the property of the state, and those who have brought the workers to the point that they have no bread, and those who have brought the peasants to the point that they can never pick up as much as he has invested in the field. Let them be terrified. Let them not be incompetent. If a man is upright and has not done something right, what shall you do to him? But those who were dishonest, they should really be afraid because in Serbia there won't be too much room to justify those who brought us here. I am not a candidate for the president of the municipality, nor am I speaking of this out of the passion of a political campaign, it is before me time for the SNS to be even better formed, and I demand extraordinary parliamentary elections. Let's see why others won't. Because they won't have as many MPs as they do now. Each party should have as many MPs as it's worth at any moment, not as much as it's worth or how much it thinks it'll be worth. So while there are 124-125 of us in the opposition we should be working together, and whoever doesn't want it to be a happy journey, let him push himself and justify himself in front of his and other children why this power that he's attacked so much hasn't fallen. Another way that this government does not exist, except that someone relights Belgrade, and let those who have children respond, be they ready to do so, to lead Belgrade back to being burned so that one authority can be changed. We were against Sonja Licht's election and personal, not because we'll always be against it. Here's the candidate who's been proposed, against whom we won't say a single bad word because he's not presented in public as a bad candidate, unlike Sonja Licht who didn't have a place there. That's why we're not going to take part in the vote on this point, but she opened up and gave the opportunity to spread a much more complex problem that this agency will never solve, which is corruption, bribery, crime of the widest possible form, solves here where it belongs. You have a lot of agencies, you have a lot of agency employees. They're all spending the state budget. The government committee that formed it couldn't do its job with the government, so it will be with this agency. As far as we're concerned, anyone who wishes to destroy this incompetent government will have SNS support. As far as we're concerned, anyone who wants to destroy this incompetent government should be able to provide SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-20-0.u19635	Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to the word in Article 93? Is the Rules of Procedure reporting? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask all those present to do so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 57 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to warn the others that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they are also obliged to use their identification cards if they are already in the O.R. Since a third of the MPs are not present, pursuant to Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are adjourned in one hour. [[After break – 11.15]] I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we can continue our work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Otherwise, Mr Dragan Shormaz is a representative of the DSS Parliamentary Group, and Riza Halimi is a minority. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Halimi. Here you go.
