ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17523	Thank you. I would like to ask you a question that concerns the relationship between the government and the opposition, and above all about what you and the ruling majority are doing in Parliament, I think you could answer a specific question for me, and then I would also ask Mirko Cvetkovic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, this is just a brief introduction, you have succeeded in these seven or eight months to destroy the atmosphere in Parliament that even the transition to this great and beautiful hall will not take that thing out. That may seem to the viewers who view this through television as some sort of temporary calming of the atmosphere, but you have achieved this calming of the atmosphere by throwing the entire parliamentary group, which has close to 60 MPs, formally. This was done by the conflict, again formally, due to the issue of sitting in this same hall, because you chose to ignore that same parliamentary group as whether they agree or disagree with what the sitting schedule should look like. That's what an objective fact is. All behind this is a matter of political interpretation. I didn't, of course, answer to ask anything about the SRS, because it's not the subject of my direct interest. What is the subject of my interest and the interest of the citizens is how you treat the opposition and how the government treats that same opposition. Because when there is a riot on the political scene of Serbia, an immature and perverse atmosphere, then the first opposition gets hurt, and then you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, because what is currently happening in Serbia is the most ordinary dictatorship of the executive government, primarily dictated by the cabinet of state president Boris Tadic, in order to reflect on parliament through one unmuseous and incompetent government. Everything you read in the media and see these days has to do with what I'm talking about. Of course, all the attacks on Parliament have been instructed from one center. The centre is the cabinet of state president Boris Tadic. The question for you, which should be oil on fire in relation to all this and to explain how right I am in everything I'm saying, and I don't know what kind of answer you're going to give me, is next. You know that opposition MPs, here, above all, I am talking about the DSS, have submitted a series of draft laws to this House. Some of these draft laws were filed so that we asked to be followed by an emergency procedure. In the days when it was decided whether these draft laws would be on the agenda of the National Assembly by emergency procedure, the ruling majority removed them from the emergency procedure, but they, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, remained in the process. When the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the website, the laws in the procedure are opened and looked at, only the draft laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one bill submitted by MP Vladan Batic are seen. There is no other proposal in the procedure. How are you going to explain that? Give me any formal explanation. Yesterday I heard from Gordana Komic, in front of a show that I participated with her, outside the cameras, that someone hacked the National Assembly website. I'll tell you who hacked the National Assembly website. That's what Boris Tadic's team did. It was done by someone in offices organised by Boris Tadic and DS to humiliate the little dignity that the National Assembly has. That's your attitude towards the opposition parties. How will you build an atmosphere, and this same government, trained by Boris Tadic, delivers reports on what has been done in overcoming the financial and economic crisis, which is a disgrace to this country? One and a half typed pages of text, stating some laws and some rules adopted by the government, without any single text of reasoning. What will the government do with a terrible picture of the foreign trade balance, with 41,000 unemployed in the past four months? What will the government do with enormous negative economic indicators... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's a question for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17524	Mr. Aligrudic, all the acts that arrive in the Assembly of Authorised Proposers have the exact same treatment. What I can do is put them on the agenda. You're absolutely right that those proposals that didn't follow the emergency procedure are still in the process and I'm taking this opportunity to suggest to the services that they correctly report to all those who are following the Assembly's website on what all these bill proposals are in the process. As for your second question, it will be passed to the government. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Zoran Kasalovic answered the word first. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17525	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask two very specific questions, concerning the functioning and work of the local self-government of Apatin, which has been successfully managed for many years by Dr Živorad-Zika Smiljanić, i.e. certain problems that need to be solved and overcome, in order to improve the conditions of life in Apache. First of all, the city of Apatin for many years does not have a conditional and adequate market, or market. The existing market is located next to a very frequent regional road, so what is not conditional, does not meet certain standards, but represents a kind of security hazard. On several occasions, the inspection ordered the municipality of Apatin to remove certain irregularities, i.e. to find a solution to the new market, i.e. the market. The Apatin municipality, considering that option, was unable, due to lack of financial resources, to address the problem in an adequate manner. Respecting that fact, she established one concept of public private partnership, with the desire to realise, together with a potential investor, the construction of a new land market that is state-owned. In that sense, the Municipality of Apatin has repeatedly addressed the Property Directorate. After an assessment, it was found that this partnership relationship, and the assessment was carried out by the Novi Sad Institute of Judicial Arts, should be compared to 88% of potential investors – 12% of the Apatin municipalities, with one such new market centre completely solving the problem. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the Municipality of Apatin, on 10 December 2007, addressed and requested consent from the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia on the acquisition of property in state property, i.e. for the facility of the market centre in Apatin, which would be built by co-financing. So far, we know that the Property Directorate has requested an opinion from the resolution ministries for local self-government, for finance, for spatial planning, from the Republic Public Attorney. This time I ask – whether, and when, the competent departments of local self-government, finance and spatial planning, or the Republic Public Advocate, have delivered this opinion to the Property Directorate, or when the Property Directorate, as appropriate and in accordance with Article 8. The law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, to give the requested consent to the Municipality of Apatin, so that this investment could be realised, that is, avoided the real danger of the investor giving up the realization of this investment in the municipality of Apatin? That was the first question. I'd like to refer the second question to the Republic Public Attorney. It also concerns a contract concluded by the Apatin municipality. The Municipality of Apatin addressed, by letter dated 18 November 2005, with a request that the Public Advocate intervened and disputed the settlement concluded by SO Apatin and Trnko Jan from Bled, under which the Municipality of Apatin denied the right to appeal for a solution to the denationalisation of the Hotel Triglav in Bled. According to this arrangement, the municipality of Apatin, in contrast to the service, received a fee from the former owner, Trnka Jane, 140,000 marks, and the Trnka Jana hotel "Triglav", with 104 beds in 52 double rooms with bathrooms, on a surface of 3,400 square meters on the very attractive shores of the lake. Although Article 8 is point 8. The law on assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that contracts and legal transactions which were concluded contrary to the provisions of Article 8 were invalid, unfortunately so far, the Republic Public Advocate has not announced and has not notified the municipality of Apatin whether he has taken action on this issue, since it is obvious that it is disproportionate compensation and the possibility of this contract being void. As hotel holder Triglav is the Republic of Serbia, it is legally legitimate to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. The Apatin municipality has filed certain criminal charges... (President: Time. ) I ask and demand that the Republic Attorney General report on this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17526	Thank you. Your questions will be forwarded to the General Secretariat of the Government and the Resoring Ministry, or the Republic of Public Attorney. The word is Mrs. Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17527	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, before I make my point, I am really pleased, and it is about Mr. Aligrudic's exposure, which in the Serbian public and on the Serbian political scene there are no further dilemmas as to why this part is empty, why the MPs are out of Parliament. The only real fact – 78 mandates were won by the SRS in May 2008. (President: Members of the Parliament, please allow Mrs. Ragush to be heard. ) Also, what is also very important, time will show, all events will go to that side, is that part of Mr Tadic's scenario, which is implementing the Washington and Brussels project on the introduction of a two-party system in Serbia, which will be ruled by Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. Everything else goes to that end, from a media campaign, the exorcism of the SRS from Parliament and everything we are all witnesses of, but it is important that one SRS MP strives to prove in an argument that Serbia is under protection. We will also talk about how a certain meeting took place at the Ric Hotel in Paris, as one of the well-known Serbian tycoons, in company with one of the presidents of neighbouring Balkan states, in a company with two professional paid patriots, agreed to influence the Serbian political scene. That's all when the time comes. The SRS also welcomes and looks forward to the investigation by UBPOK, as we have information from Minister Dacic that the documentation relating to PC "Usje" has been submitted to UBPOK. We look forward to the results of this investigation and that is what our contribution is in terms of corruption and organised crime, which is very important. Then we will get answers to the question of who actually affects political decisions in Serbia, whether there is indeed parliamentary democracy in Serbia and what is behind political parties. My question now is this. Given that we are in a situation of a terrible financial crisis that has spread into Serbia, the opposition referred to it in time, we have been expelled from the media for it, and on the basis of Article 99. The constitution of the state of Serbia, in part of the election rights of the National Assembly, concerns the governor of the NBS, therefore, in the fourth paragraph, where, among other things, the Assembly is said to oversee its work, the SRS Parliament Club demands that Mr Jelasic direct us, individually, according to positions and overall, in the collection, from 2000 to 2009, how many donations to the name of which the institution entered the state of Serbia. Why am I saying this? This is necessary for further work, especially when it comes to budget rebalancing, because the SRS, its analytical part, has certain knowledge. We want to compare that with official data from the Serbian state. Therefore, I ask you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that this be as soon as possible, so that we can participate qualifiedly in the debate on budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17528	Of course, we will insist that it be as short as possible and as far as possible within two weeks, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17529	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have several questions and notifications, concerning the fate of the issues that MPs ask the National Assembly. Since I've intervened several times with you to intervene that the ministers respect the law, which is the 30-day period in which they have to answer, I mean that some ministers, or most of those who are concerned with my questions, or their resolutions, have answered, but some have not. Since I don't know if the other fellow MPs and the public have received these answers, or answers to the questions I have asked, I want to remind the public that on 26 February, the Prime Minister, here, in front of the general public, I have asked for the amount of our foreign reserves, where they are being held and under what conditions. We're all witnessing that the Prime Minister said it was a state secret. As you can see, it's not a state secret and the police minister has answered my question. I don't know if he's in charge, anyway, I'm grateful he answered that question. Mr. Sutanovac answered, even to a question he declared a state secret, and I will keep that state secret, like any security citizen and MP, safe. Culture Minister Nebojsa Bradic also answered, but one minister said she was a ballerina, persistently avoiding answering one question that I think is of interest to almost 10% of Serbian citizens who are unfortunately disabled. Do I need to remind you, as a humanist and a doctor, of all the MPs and the general public, that recently, with a heated discussion, we have passed a law on the prohibition of discrimination here. It is an amendment adopted in the adoption of budget rebalancing last year, which entered the budget for this year. I've been asking a few questions, that's the amount, I think, of 15 million dinars -- what has the minister done in implementing this amendment? The fact that she will not respond to a MP from New Serbia may not be a pity, but it is a pity for the public and for the citizens. So I ask the public prosecutor, the Ombudsman for the protection of human rights, the minister of minority and human rights -- what are they going to do about ignoring a social minority, people who are not guilty because they are disabled? They had such an accident, but they have the right to live as normal as possible in this country, not only by the positive laws of this country, which have been passed, but according to one basic human right. What are you going to do about that ignoring by Minister Markovic? I'm asking you to publicly condemn it, since it's been going on for a few months now. I'm not important here at all, I've turned out to be the victim, because I agreed that for one amendment, honestly and honestly submitted, I admit that, like, it's not in accordance with the law, that we would all bring it together, in collaboration with Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, who was very correct then. We see that some ministers ignore their duty, especially on such a sensitive subject, in such an economic crisis. So one endangered social minority, disabled, feels threatened especially when there's not enough money when there's a major crisis. I am convinced that most MPs, from all MP groups in this assembly, do not think so, or think that these people should be particularly protected in the months or years of the crisis that is coming. Therefore, publicly, in front of Serbian citizens, I call on Minister Markovic to answer this question, to publicly and aloud announce what she has done about the amendment, which is not the amendment of New Serbia, Mr Markicevic, but the amendment of all MPs here, because I am sure everyone thinks so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17530	The delicacy of the content of your question, the fact that it was asked on February 26th, and that we have coerced you to get answers from everyone to whom the question was addressed, obliges me to publicly ask the Minister to address the Assembly in writing and to answer that question. The question will, of course, be forwarded to all the other persons and institutions you mentioned. I would ask Minister Markovic to answer Mr Markicevic and the Serbian Parliament's question on February 26th. I urinate especially because of the delicacy of the content of the question. Is anyone else picking up? (No) We are moving on to the 26th and 27th points of the agenda – I would like to inform you that I have agreed with the highest number of members of the parliamentary groups and representatives of the parliamentary groups that we are working without a break today, because of the fact that many MPs will leave Belgrade and spend the holidays outside Belgrade, so that we can allow them to do so as soon as possible. I thank you for that answer, too. The next speaker is Mr. Free Maras, who is not here, so I would ask Mr. Riza Halimi, who was absent yesterday at the time I called him, and asked him to speak today, to take his word. Here you go. Just, please, sign up to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, colleague Elvira Kovac has already announced that we will support these laws as a parliamentary group. Of course, these bill proposals have made a more serious step in more effective problem-solving in this area, both in terms of employment, and in terms of professional orientation, as well as, what we have already heard here, an important step in harmonising our legislation from these areas with the relevant European legislation. Here, above all, I would point out the need to apply in the practice of these legal provisions, because so far in certain areas, in this case, in undeveloped areas, and so far the legislative provisions have been difficult to achieve in practice. I see here good ideas that a lot of things from the employment sphere are being transferred to both regional and local self-government areas. It has often been said here that there is discrimination in practice and when it comes to persons with disabilities and even in gender equality in general; women in undeveloped areas can find employment very difficult. Of course, since it is discrimination, it is also present in the ethnic sphere. Imagine an undeveloped municipality, and always, compared to these three municipalities, I take Presevo as an example, because it is really the most underdeveloped, where unemployment is about 70%, where two and a half times more unemployed than the number of employees, which is several times more difficult or inadequate compared to the average in the country. The question is, in these circumstances, what can be done in practice if an active employment policy is not really allowed? We've never had that kind of active approach before. I have information for the Presevo municipality, so Bujanovac is around, that about 31.40% of the self-employed in the total number of employees, which is a significantly higher average than the republican. Imagine the absurdity that in the most underdeveloped municipality in the state the percentage of self-employed people's participation is well above the republican average! It's clear how it happens, it's people who work abroad and then their capital instructions to trade or trade, and that's how you hire a certain number of people on that ground. This is about the total lack of active employment policy of the state, of state institutions, because apart from what we have in state and public institutions, in the economy, I've said a few times already, something has happened in earlier periods, and now it literally disappears. Currently, from what is left of the current social sector of the economy, what has gone to action, such as Simpo, for example, or what is at the very end of the privatisation process, in some process of total passiveisation, and the real number of employees on the ground is only those in the state or public sector and the small part of self-employed, not thanks to the development funds, not based on the credit of the Republic Development Fund, but based on their own investment, from their own earning of citizens abroad. To add a catastrophic situation with the only protection company that had Presevo, in which he was employed a number of people with disabilities, which was privatized, in my opinion, in addition to legal procedures, for a baffled price of 2,700,000 dinars. Besides the machines, along with a very important building area of six thousand square meters, which is very attractive for Presevo, there was even one two-bedroom apartment, worth at least 25 000 euros, and the entire company was sold for 3,000 euros and Presevo was left without any protection company. All right, this law predicts that there will be a slightly different approach to inclusion or, in general, the accession of people with disabilities, but now in far more difficult conditions – total unemployment in this area. In my opinion, here is the point – how to manage to prevent discrimination in such catastrophic circumstances as we have on the ground and somehow to mitigate the situation for people with disabilities, how to alleviate this discrimination on a gender basis and, in general, discrimination on an ethnic basis, which is also important. First of all, he's currently employed every 68. Rom... Mr. Halimi, time's up, bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... Every 28th Albanian and 9. A Serb. The Serbs are looking for employment, too, because he's only the ninth employee. How do you hire those who are even more drastically unemployed?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17532	Mr. Free Maraš has a word. Your task force has seven and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17533	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, this is a topic that certainly interests all citizens, namely this law is intended as a law that should, in some ways, reduce citizens' concerns, i.e. to open up space to new employment, to regulate this matter. Of course, it's only one part of everything that can allow more jobs in our country. I listened very carefully to the Minister when she gave the opening statement to the Government. I worry most of all when I see there's a national action plan for something, so there's one for this. What my experience taught me while I was working in a state body belonging to the Ministry of Finance, there are other colleagues working in the same institution, there was something that Minister Dinkic now announces. It's the employment of 10,000 interns, if I understand correctly. So, we at the IRS, we started seeing interns and, after the traineeship, we know very well how it all worked out. It is now the same situation – it is promised that 10,000 trainees will be given the opportunity, i.e. that the state will subsidise their employment for a year, and after that, everything depends on how they prove themselves, that will be their destiny. I think it's a good try and there's a good intention behind it, but I'm afraid it won't be a good result. I think the biggest result, when it comes to employment in this country, would be tax cuts and salary contributions. Minister Dinkic said the other day that it would have been a terrible blow to the budget, but we already had one such blow in January, and you know for yourself what occasion, and if that blow were to be, I think it would have been, I think, reflected for several months, but would have opened the space for many employers to open new jobs. I think it's both you and all of us here and all the citizens, the key thing right now. The greatest fear at this point, as you have stated, or when in second place citizens ask what is most important to them, is the question of their employment, or the opportunity to do, opportunities to get a chance to work. That's what we LDP talk about all the time, that there's little chance for each of us in this country, and there's little chance of employment in particular. There is a national strategy, and we have seen that these action plans exist in other areas. The worst part is that when an action plan or strategy proposed by the Government is adopted by the Assembly, it is never applied, or fully implemented. I assume you're in agreement with Minister Dinkic when it comes to this topic and the reason you're sitting here is this one. It would be much better if Minister Dinkic were there and we could talk to him about this subject, since this portfolio, or employment, is under his authority. I fear that the law, like many of the laws that we have passed so far in this assembly, and in this, and in the previous term, will remain only a letter on paper, or it will not bring any positive effects. I'm undermining it again, I think it's probably clear to everyone, but all it needs is responsibility and courage for something like that. I think it's an opportunity to increase the number of jobs, if you cut taxes and contributions. I wish Minister Dinkic were there, because he said last time he guaranteed there would be no VAT increase. I suppose he's the one who can determine and lower taxes and contribute to wages. Please, since you're his colleague, to put pressure on him, because he's here as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy, to do everything in his power to cut taxes and contribute to wages, and then we'll have more opportunities to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17534	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17535	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, in the transition process through which the Republic of Serbia seeks to adapt its legislation to the standards of modern European legal legislation. This specifically refers to the area of human rights in general, as well as the rights of ethnic and social categories of the population. In this context, the proposals for a law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons are only part of the legislative legislation that brings Serbia closer to European standards. It is widely known that the problem of unemployment is one of the most difficult problems of the Serbian state and of the Serbian society in transition. This problem raises many other problems that burden our society, one of which is the greatest – the mass departure of young people from our country. In the National Employment Strategy, the Republic of Serbia has given significant attention to employment and unemployment insurance, so it can be said that this problem can only be solved depending on the country's success in other activities. Here, above all, it is meant to develop the economy, attract foreign direct investment, improve regional economic co-operation and the process of European integration. Given all these tasks ahead of Serbia, the need for legal solutions in one place and in the spirit of modern European legislation has been imposed unequivocally on the area of employment and unemployment insurance. That is why the proposal for this law is solid, the answer to current questions and complex employment problems in our country. It should be noted that when drawing up the text of the proposed law, the highest standards of parallel law in the field of employment are respected. For the adoption of this law, there are several concrete reasons, of which, as an MP from the SPS-JS Group, I will point only to some. Firstly, the current law is not in a meaningful and flexible way regulated policy of planning and implementing employment. This refers to inadequate regulation of the employment policy programme, inflexible definitions of measures and policies, the lack of mandatory individual plans, as well as the lack of an act to regulate the planned impact of national services and monitors and assess activities in the field of employment. Secondly, the current legislation has complicated a significant imbalance between the funds intended for active and passive measures, in favour of passive ones. This imbalance has been devised by one of the main guidelines of the National Employment Strategy, which is directly in line with European employment strategies and which implies that work should be made profitable. Third, the constitutionality of the provision of the current law, which has imposed an obligation on the unemployed to accept employment under the threat of eradicating from the record, from the point of view that the right to work is one of the fundamental constitutional rights, is very problematic. Fourthly, the current law has inadequately regulated issues of the National Service and Employment Agency, such as the premise composition of the Management Board and the dysfunctional Supervisory Board of the National Service, the absence of essential conditions for persons who wish to establish a employment agency etc. Fifthly, the current law did not provide incentive mechanisms for more active integration of the province, i.e. local self-government in implementing an active employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, starting with the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees every citizen the right to work, because it makes it possible for every individual to improve their abilities, this right is inalienable law for all citizens of Serbia who face different forms of disability. As a result, the issue of social engagement of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life, including their equal representation on the labour market, is not only a question of social policy, but rather a question of respect for the fundamental constitutional and human rights of these persons. It's not about providing for the existence of these people, it's about their active and equal involvement in all spheres of social life. Given that the strategic objective of the Republic of Serbia is to join the EU and that, looking towards that goal, the Republic of Serbia has joined the process of harmonising legal legislation with the European one, it should be pointed out that the draft of this law has used the basic solutions to European legislation, both the EU and the Council of Europe. Their action plans have also been used, which promote the full integration of people with disabilities into society, especially their involvement in working with new technologies and creating equal opportunities for the employment of these persons, as well as different forms of rehabilitation policy. The strategy to improve the situation of people with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia sets goals and tasks for improving the position of these people to the position of equal citizens, who enjoy all rights and responsibilities. One of the tasks of this strategy is to separate measures and programmes in the field of education, employment and work, which give people with disabilities equal opportunities and promote their independence, personal development and active life. Starting with the fact that the European Agency for Reconstruction believes that around 700,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia, of which 300,000 are working age, and that the unemployment rate of these persons is extremely low and is around 13%, which means that in the working relationship of all around 21,000 of these persons, the need to create equal opportunities for the work and employment of these persons in our society is unequivocally imposed. The reason for the adoption of this law also rests in the fact that the existing regulation in this area only regulates the employment of persons with disabilities under special conditions, in so-called ‘. Protective workshops. The draft law provides for full redefining of relations between persons with disabilities, as potential employees, and the working environment, i.e. employers. Experience gained in other countries tells us that only the financial resources of employers support and insisting on an altruistic approach to solving the unemployment problem of people with disabilities are insufficient to address this problem. For future employment of this category of population, economic motives should be established, i.e. to treat this person equally with all other job seekers. It should be noted that the system of established employment obligations for these persons is legally envisaged for employers in several European countries, up from 2% to 15% of the total number of employers. Experiences from these countries are positive and show that in this way people with disabilities are involved not only in the field of work, but also in all other areas of social life and that they are drastically reducing and removing obstacles and different barriers that stand before these persons because of their disability. This extremely sensitive area of our modern society will be regulated in an appropriate manner by these legal solutions, and therefore the SPS-JS parliamentary group, when this law is voted on, will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17536	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17537	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since my parliamentary group has already spoken of these laws, I will speak, above all, of this law on rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, because I owe it to many of the people I've worked with during my working life and those I've normally been hanging out with. There's a lot of prejudice about people with disabilities. One of the greatest is that they cannot be employed and worked and that they cannot live from their work, but rather from the welfare of the state. Of course, in achieving the right to work and to work, there really should be a very high dose of flexibility, but it is beyond any doubt that people with disabilities can work and can be employed. First of all, I have to say that since 2000 there has really been a very different relationship with people with disabilities, especially at the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, when important and crucial documents concerning this topic have been brought in. One of them is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which gives one general non-discrimination regime for disability, but also a series of laws, general laws, has contributed to improving the situation of these persons. It is, above all, about the Labour Act, then, the Health Protection Act, the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Education, as well as the Law on Higher Education. I need to say one more piece of information. There are about 700,000 people with disabilities in Serbia. Only about 22,500 of them are on the National Employment Service records. They belong to that group that has a high percentage of those who have completed colleges, over 7% of them have completed high schools, but the highest number of those who have completed the third and fourth degrees, but both of them and the third have very few chances of employment. Another percentage, which is a real example of what I'm saying – around 26% to 30% of people with disabilities are employed in Europe, and in Serbia, that percentage is only 13%. I have to say, there are a lot of problems, which are very complex when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. I shouldn't be based on that story right now, because I'd like to say some more important things, and my MP group, unfortunately, doesn't have too much time to talk as much as I can about this. I have to say only one very important thing, all associations of people with disabilities have waited very long for this law and since 2004, this law has been in various forms of procedure. All associations hoped that when this law was passed, their position would be drastically improved and they would really be able to get a job. But it seems that this law, like it looks nice, sounds nice, but it doesn't give excessive hopes to people with disabilities to get a job. Why do I say that? First of all, the government and the ruling majority in this assembly chose the worst possible moment for this law to come before us today, because, due to the global economic crisis, but, first of all, because of our government's incompetence, it is a really difficult moment in society. First of all, because of very difficult economic conditions, there is very little possibility of this law being applied. I know that the promoter has fenced himself that in a year he will only apply himself, but with such an incompetent and sour government and with such measures, a year will mean nothing, nor will there be better conditions for people with disabilities to be employed. That I am right to say that according to these new economic measures, since some new ones are constantly emerging, and some others are disappearing, the government has defined that everything that is difficult to transfer to the back of citizens, by removing their jobs, by increasing their taxes, by reducing their wages, so that citizens, around, will bring out all the weight of the economic crisis on their backs, and since they always suffer exactly marginal groups and groups with increased risk, what people with disabilities they are, I can only expect how many cars will break on their backs. Why is this law completely unusable? First of all, I already said, because at first sight this law looks nice and sounds nice, but it doesn't have any effect, in fact, it's more important than the result. It shows that here you have many examples of completely unregulated institutions, which will not be able to function. On the other hand, the state in this law needs to identify considerable resources to stimulate employers to employ people with disabilities. In the light of the law, the proposer says there is no need to increase funds already used to carry out some activities in the employment of disabled people. Anyone who reads this law well will see that it is extremely important that the funds are increased and that employers are stimulated in various ways, so that people with disabilities are still employed. Since there is no means, I cannot expect a serious approach to the realisation of this law. What happens if we follow this spirit of the law, what case can happen? Given the number of workers that the state employs as an employer, which in the administration, which in public enterprises, which in agencies, the state is obliged to employ 10,000 people with disabilities. On the other hand, you have a current situation, that the state simply declared that they cannot hire new people, so there is no employment. At the same time, you have access to 10,000 people to hire. It's simple, you have one discrepancy. In case you don't hire them, the state now has to pay in a fund for every person who doesn't hire three times the minimum personal income, a triple sum of minimum personal income, which will say that there are really big money needed to make this law happen. They're gone, so it's just a funny situation. So we write one thing, and we know it won't apply. Furthermore, how are we going to stimulate the employers that we've led to the complete collapse of the company? We now have 57,000 companies that are in the blockade, and we need to stimulate employers, who can fire a dozen workers every day, to hire new workers. Then we come to the point of saying that people with disabilities will take jobs for some other people, and then we will come to the point of spreading even hatred in society. What is scariest and what shows the true intention of the person who has proposed such a law is that the proposer decided to set up a fund to fund the activities of persons with disabilities on employment and that they cannot have or decide how to dispose of a person with disabilities. The password of a disabled person is that without them, they cannot be decided on. On this occasion, I must say that the DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled two amendments to this area, both amendments to Article 2 and Article 28 of the accompanying law. They've been denied. So the promoter and the government believe that people with disabilities should not decide for themselves, but the government will make a much better decision about them. How will the government decide on them, here, I'll say two examples. I will remind you, a few years ago, the same Minister Dinkic who proposes this law is not clear to me why he is not here today, this same Minister Dinkic is the right person with disabilities to get the cars that are needed to move, explaining this by abuse of that right. When the right is misused, there is an institution in this country, I guess the minister didn't know well, and then the right of others is not lifted. Another story that's very important, that's one case from Krupanj, which I keep mentioning. Local self-government is unable to provide 5,000 dinars, as long as it takes one person with disabilities to visit the living room. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17538	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17539	Thank you. I think the proposals for these two laws that we are going to talk about today are truly brutal and of great importance right now, and I think it is particularly important that they be adopted now that Serbia faces an economic crisis, so that this crisis does not further endanger those who are most vulnerable, and these are unemployed and disabled. It was really interesting to me that yesterday and today, I listened carefully, I listen to the arguments of those who will not vote for these laws, because I am convinced that they are not only making a bad assessment of the interests of citizens, but I am convinced that they are also making a very bad political assessment. To some of those remarks, I hope I have time to answer. To return to the point of why it is important at this point to discuss unemployment and the possibility of reducing it. Because the majority of the poor in Serbia are the very ones who are unemployed. In response to those who spoke yesterday about the increase in poverty in Serbia, I must, for the sake of truth and citizens, say the facts. In the past, poverty in Serbia has been reduced significantly from 14.6% to 6.6% in 2007. In 2008, unfortunately, we note the stagnation of poverty reduction, which is something to serve as a reminder, and of course our mission in 2009 is to avoid an extreme increase in poverty in Serbia, not to see what happened in the 1990s, which is that 70% of the population is poor. It is something that will certainly not happen again in Serbia, because it has very good experience on the plan. The unemployed make up 50% of the poor, and the index of their poverty is 19.7% compared to the general index, which is 6.6%, as I said. Of course, as expected, the unemployed are three times poorer than the general population. I want to say something about education and poverty. The least educated citizens of Serbia are also the poorest. Those who don't have primary school are poor in index 18.7%, and those who have completed primary school alone, 10.3%. So they make 71% of the poorest. With high and higher school, the poverty index is only 0.6% and they make only 1.7% poor. Why am I talking about this? This is what I'm talking about because I'm convinced that the employment and unemployment insurance law has this particular objective, which is that education involves in the fight against unemployment, first of all, through active employment measures. This is where we come to what we are different from the G17 plus, which we will support, from those in the opposition, which, unfortunately, will not support it, which is the attitude towards unemployment, the attitude towards politics, the attitude towards the state at all. Do you advocate passivity, do you advocate the deactivation of citizens, or do you advocate active measures, for the possibility to activate citizens as bearers and decision-makers in the state, or do you aim for them to be passive, to give them some compensation from which they will live and not be too likely to participate in public life? G17 plus advocates this other variant, and therefore I strongly support active employment measures. I believe that this focus, which is shifted from passive to active, is the possibility of reducing the number of unemployed in Serbia. Why? Because it is a characteristic of unemployment in Serbia, among other things, that people who are registered in the Employment Service do not have qualifications that require modern working conditions. Unfortunately, we haven't implemented a school reform in time, so our educational institutions, first of all, I mean high school, usually don't give those staff, those skills and those skills that are needed for the demands of a modern job. It is something that the state will now have to work more seriously and it will work through this law and through active employment measures. I also want to say that employment is not a social category in itself and that if we push the unemployed into the social community, they will not be able to get out of that unemployment situation. What is truly commendable is, above all, an individual employment plan, the possibility of an unemployed person actively participating in the creation of his employment plan, in seeking opportunities for his employment and in revising the plan, along with the experts who will help us. Also, professional orientation and counselling is something that really needs people who are on the labour market, who are, unfortunately, often passive in their ability to find work. I also welcome the rate of subsidies for difficult employment categories and I want to say that there are, say, 15.7% of people waiting for a 3-5 year job, 12.8% of people waiting for a job for 5-8 years, and those waiting for a job over 10 years have 10.6%. This is a huge percentage of people who have not worked for three, five or ten years, and it is clear that they have gone far from their profession and from all possible skills that will lead them to better work, which will lead them to a job that will adequately perform. Therefore, the active employment measures and additional education, requalification, requalification and all possible incentives offered by this law are an absolute response to unemployment and the additional response to the crisis that awaits us. As for the law on employment of persons with disabilities, I don't think there's much to talk about, because what had to be said about him has been said in the past few years. I would like to stress that this law has not been passed since yesterday, has not been adopted by an emergency procedure, has not been in preparation for a month or two days. I want to tell my colleagues that this law has been prepared for several years, and they know it very well, has been prepared through various ministries and completely irrelevant, which is currently a minister in a particular ministry. Also, in the preparation of this law and, in general, initiatives for its adoption were attended by persons with disabilities themselves. I want to commend their activists and their tenacity on this plan. I want to commend them for realizing in time that disability is not something that will remove them from the middle, but something that will allow them to be active members of society. Persons with disabilities recognized that they did not need social benefits, but that they needed a job, as they needed each other. I think anyone who opposes this law will challenge this right. When you're looking for the faults of this law, it's really a little bit of a thing. No law is perfect, and I will agree that he may have a few shortcomings, but I am absolutely certain that we all know together, regardless of political interests, that this law is of the utmost interest to persons with disabilities. I'm not going to repeat the statistics on people with disabilities, we all know very well, we know that only 13% were employed, that without primary school there are about 50%, etc. This is the first reform law in this area that provides full protection against discrimination against people with disabilities because it enables them to work. As for the assessment of workability, which was discussed yesterday, I would like to say that it differs greatly from the approach that existed so far. The assessment of working ability is now being done in relation to what a person with disabilities can do, not what she can't do, how it's been so far. This law adopts specific forms of employment of persons with disabilities, both under general and under special conditions. Also, this law allows for the adjustment of jobs, jobs to persons with disabilities, as well as employment in enterprises for professional rehabilitation, employment in social enterprises, other employers with adaptation, etc. What I want to point out is that the very important forms of employment of people with disabilities are working centres, which were mentioned yesterday. I want to say something about them, whether they are necessary or not; there have been discussions between the various representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. Work centres enable people with disabilities who are unable to get another job in the open economy, or in the employment companies of people with disabilities. Practically, the activities of disabled persons whose effect is less than a third of the work performance of a normal job are carried out at work centres. It is an additional form that will allow employment and those with disabilities which, I say, are even more at risk than other people with disabilities. I also want to say something about a special category of people with disabilities, and these are people with mental disabilities. These are people who are further threatened, so to speak, because of the fact that they are often unable to represent themselves. Of course, our colleague Gordana Rajkov, Mr. Damjan Tatic, or my friend from Leskovec, Svetozar Marjanovic, who are persons with high intellectual capacity, can represent themselves and they have led to this in this country a series of laws that improve the position of disabled people. There is a category of persons who are mentally distracted and who are unable to represent themselves. Indeed, it is an area of particular work and needs to create additional opportunities for work, which this law has done to some extent. However, I certainly do not agree that there is no need to carry out an assessment of the work capacity at all and that there is no need for any commissions to assess their ability to assess, precisely because these commissions will serve to give a positive, proactive approach, in order to propose possible measures and support for those persons to work. I would like to commend the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, especially those who have worked to pass this law, I would like to commend the Ministry of Social Policy, which has also participated in this. I want to commend the people with disabilities and their associations, who have contributed to making this law better, and I want to commend the MPs, who have had active access and participated in improving this law. I especially want to highlight the amendment, which I hope will become an integral part of this law, which is an amendment that will allow the categories of persons with disabilities that I have spoken of, and these are those who, unfortunately, are also deprived of their business ability, to work in an open economy, that is, with the employer. It's a project that's been in existence for five years, there's a McDonald's project that allows children with disabilities to live on equal terms, with all their peers, in such facilities and work in them. I think that what this law adopts for a category of people with disabilities, for their parents, associations of people with disabilities, absolutely, is something that must support every political option and that is not a political question, that it is a question of the well-being of the citizens of our country. I really hope that all parties in this assembly will support this law and change their political attitude towards non-political issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17540	I thank you, Mrs Stojanović-Plasic. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17541	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt that unemployment is one of Serbia's most important social problems. I think it is an unquestionable fact and that we have a consensus in the whole of Parliament on the findings and diagnosis, but, according to the views of individual parliamentary groups that do not intend to support these two laws, at least not in this form that we are talking about in principle, it is obvious that we have a different approach to how to solve this social problem. We must recognise that the alarming fact is that Serbia's unemployment rate is one of the largest in Europe, that it is far, far higher than the developed countries that are EU members. On the other hand, we cannot have the illusion that one law can solve the issue of unemployment. It is certain that the question of employment is solved by creating a mature economic environment, quality interregional co-operation, our European integration, but it is necessary that there is a normative framework which, through the form of this bill, in my opinion, is a good basis for redefine segments in this area. Why are we passing this law? Because experience so far has shown, above all, that so far solutions in existing legislation are not adequate. It's one imbalance, disproportionation of support for active and passive employment policy, and 80% in favour of so-called. passive employment policies. The solutions offered by this law are going in the opposite direction. It encourages an active employment policy, whether it applies to institutions, whether it refers to persons seeking employment themselves. One of the newspapers in this law, in my opinion, is a key syntagma, a word – action plan. He's the basis for budget planning. We know we can plan, but if there's no budget and there's no financial backdrop to implement the plans, then there's none of it. The law provides the basis for creating action plans. It's just one segment of this law. The quality offered by existing solutions in this bill is a new category of unemployed persons and persons looking for a job. Here we introduce students, students, pensioners, as persons seeking employment, and surely their social, in general, social status by this law is gaining weight. I will not repeat all relevant documents of the Council of Europe, the International Labour Organisation, etc. And our constitution rests on this law. That's what my colleagues from the ZES parliamentary groups, the SPS, the G17 talked about. What's important to point out is decentralisation in this area. In addition to the central authorities, we need to make one dispersion in the entire system and employment and unemployment resolution policy into the jurisdiction of local self-government and autonomous provinces. I'm going to set a specific example and I'm very happy about it. I recently attended a presentation done by the District Executive Council of Vojvodina, specifically, Minister of Labour and Employment, Gender Equality, Mr Miroslav Vasin, where a whole series of concrete employment measures are envisaged, i.e. incentives for employers to hire new workers, whether they are trainees, whether they are individual vulnerable groups, to say, among other things, persons with disabilities, persons belonging to the Roma population and many others. It is one budget that is suitable for the current moment, a moment of crisis, which is not too massive, but will certainly lead to the preservation of existing jobs, even increasing jobs in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I'm saying this in the context of one of the solutions to this bill, that autonomous provinces have their own action plans. Planning at national level in local labour markets, active employment policy, engagement of all resources of the National Employment Service, including local self-government, is in my opinion the key quality of this bill. As for the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, it is undeniable that we have a legal-normal vacuum in this area and I must say that this issue is not just a business, working-law issue. This is a question of human rights, this is a question of our strategic commitment to create Serbia as an open society, as a society of equal opportunities, and that the question of employment and training of persons with disabilities, as particularly vulnerable groups in our society, which has often been the target of discrimination, we also have to solve through this normative area. We recently passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. And this law certainly contributes to improving their position. We shouldn't do this just from the aspect of altruism, as one respected colleague put it. We have to look at and treat these individuals as equal members of the social community, and through all these legal solutions, we have to give them equal access to the labour market and their better position, because we create not only better living conditions for them, so we create a better society and a better state. This is why the Democratic Party, or the MEP Group of the ZES, strongly supports these two legislative projects, very important for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17542	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17543	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mrs. Kalanovic, I tried very carefully to listen to the presentation of colleagues from the ruling coalition. Obviously we have different data, but I guess we'll all be aware of the complete picture, because we're aware of the fact that there's a little lie, a big lie and statistics. What is certain, statistics do not reveal enough the right situation, when, for example, it is the employment rate and unemployment rate and vulnerable groups in Serbia's society. What the SRS has been trying to do for a while now is to use sources that are close to the ruling coalition, too, to use sources that are state-owned. We're trying to put our data aside for this debate, for one simple reason, to take away your argument to beat up your data. What we're trying to do, you've done as an opposition, and that's the right of all political parties, and we're collecting construction on the destruction of the Serbian economy. This is very transparent, we are openly telling you and we are trying to do it the best we can, using only official data, or data from a group of experts who have been involved in the government since October 5th. We tried, when there was a business opportunity, to ask concrete questions, to make a request for clarification in due time, or to ask a question to the resolution ministry, and so we get an official answer, so I will remind you of a few of the answers that we have received from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It concerns unemployment rates, on 31 December 2008, if I am not mistaken, but I will consult the answer you have officially referred to, specifically, to me, because I dealt with it at the end of last year, sincerely scared of the situation that awaits us during 2009. To be absolutely clear, neither I nor the SRS Parliamentary Group can look forward to this situation that has hit Serbia, nor would I want you to take this as the splendorous behaviour of the SRS. On the contrary, what is the basic motive of all of this is that there was much that could have been done and not done, so we want to know who's directly responsible for it. I don't think you're personally responsible, Mrs. Kalanovic. Responsible people, as we can see, have recently been in all ranks, and ours, but what the SRS is doing, is that those responsible for, conditionally speaking, playing Serbian national interests very transparently, publicly, without any remainder or reserve, show the Serbian public. We think that political correctness works, that the largest number of people who make this political scene thinks it works best, but that there are some "mangupes in our ranks" who should be responsible for what we appreciate is contrary to the interests of the Serbian nation, so I hope that you will see this debate as an exhibition, as a conceptual exposure from the position of the SRS. Yesterday I began to present data that are not, of course, today in 2009. We tried to get fresh data when it comes to unemployment rates in certain centres in Serbia, especially certain vulnerable categories of society, such as persons with disabilities. We consulted the Project, and now I'm going to tell you his name, which I mentioned yesterday – tracking down poverty reduction of vulnerable groups of young people. These are the results of research and recommendations in Nis, Kragujevac, Kikindi, Užica and Belgrade. It was signed by Group 484. The project is funded by the EU and implemented by the European Agency for Reconstruction. So it has nothing to do with the SRS. I assume that you too had the opportunity to have insight into this project, which gave me a slightly clearer picture of how, in fact, Serbia looks and what the state of Serbian institutions are on the ground, based on what this group of experts have done, and many of them have done their time in Serbia after October 5th. So that I wouldn't repeat myself, I brought up some data for Kickinda yesterday. What I remained in debt is that in the category of persons with disabilities aged 18 to 30, of the 51 surveyed in the territory of the municipality of Kickinda, there are members of some association of persons with disabilities who participated in the work of this coalition, 11 are on the record of the National Employment Service, branches in Kikinda. These people are being treated like unemployed. Their sex structure is five men and six women. You, as a methodology, I suppose you can make a 2009 projection, especially in light of the financial crisis, which and how it begins to reflect on the Serbian economy, so we can think about how the law can be implemented, or the bill that you defend here. The information here is that the total number of persons with disabilities, according to the degree of expertise, is 724. I'm not going to read everything, because the project has about 80 pages, and I don't have that much time available, but I need to get some data out so we can create a picture and talk about the current state, because, as I understand you, you don't have the exact information for people with disabilities. The truth is, we didn't get it either, and we don't have a precise picture of the structure of people who are unemployed and who are particularly vulnerable to society, and we assume that they will be even more endangered, in light of the crisis that is definitely going to reflect the next five years, and this is about the Serbian economy. What I was particularly interested in, being a single parent, is what indicates, based on all these research results, that the percentage of single parents, which fathers, mothers, are growing in Serbian society. There are, of course, older faces, everything that falls under the victims of transition. Let's get back to this project that has served me to clarify many dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17544	Mrs. Ragush, I will only interrupt you for a moment, to inform the MPs that they are visiting our parliament, students of the Belgrade High School of France, with Professor Audrey Pukle. They're at the gallery and they'll be monitoring our work for a while. Thank you for letting me know, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17545	And I welcome the guests who are at the gallery, I hope this debate will be useful to them. The shirt I wear is likely to bounce away from the other fellow MPs, has a character of my party's president who has been in The Hague for six years and is a sign of a certain protest against the neoliberal occupation behind which he is my president's prisoner. To get back to the results of this analysis, I needed to explain to young people why I look the way I look. What is the recommendation of Group 484, I apologize for this small deviation from the topic, I return, is that active, not passive measures should be advocated for persons with special needs, when it comes to their employment and overall unemployment. This, Mrs Kalanovic, is a project that covered the deadline from 2003 to 2006. It was already recommended at the time. We, with active employment measures, if I understand you correctly in the presentation, are talking about 2009. I'm interested in whom these recommendations were addressed and why they didn't come out in a way that was appropriate, and then we stood better, we could, at least when it comes to economy, we'd better follow it. Also, one of the recommendations was – to be advocated for making clear records of young unemployed people with special needs, primarily at the National Employment Service, as this creates the basis for successful and comprehensive affirmative action. Fantastic recommendation, I don't know if it's come true, and I'd like to know. So, at the national level and at the branch level, what was done about it? The law also penetrates the National Employment Service and provides for the establishment of an agency. Let's move on. It is obvious that the National Employment Service must have a clear, proactive approach to this population, especially to young people in this category. Among other things, what is recommended? Notifications via the Internet, phone calls, encouraging participation in projects and programmes that make persons with special needs a subject, not an object of process. This part is, of course, for society, which should involve all people with special needs, especially disabled persons, in all social processes, not being rejected or marginalized. So to make sure that all the capacities in them, regardless of any disability, come to a maximum, because this is very important in the context of respect for human rights and the personal dignity of all people. What interests me is, has the National Employment Service ever done this kind of thing? I remember, when I was, in a political decision, laxtrated and I was at the Bureau of the Unemployed, and I was deputy federal minister, so I was lustrated among the first, that no one called me from the Labour Bureau. For me, there were no notices of vacancy. On the contrary, there was a notice that I was overqualified for the current job offer. So, I'm talking from a personal example. I guess I'll hear the National Employment Service is working in this context, but here, and Group 484 has found that's not the case. I'm interested in how do you think to involve persons with special needs, special, vulnerable categories of society, in comprehensive social processes, of course, to include them in what is called productive labour? Also, one of the recommendations was – local social-economic councils should also be mediators between employers and disabled persons. The recommendation was made in 2006, following the completion of the project, which covered three years from 2003 to 2006. Is this done? If it isn't, why? What was also a recommendation at the time, based on the scan of the situation, only for Kickinda, was to be advocated to form a socioeconomic council at the municipal level, and then to include the Association of Persons with Disabilities in Socioeconomic Councils. You'll agree, this is over necessary. Still, disabled people should participate in this process, because they know best, based on a personal example, what it is they need to do. Therefore, this public debate and public dialogue is beyond necessary for the state to see the situation and to give concrete measures. I'm really saying this in the interest of all people who will feel the crisis on their backs, too, in the interest of all those who, unfortunately, are not in a position to make a job, at least in time longer than a month, so it's very valuable to hear how you think you include them all in what this law provides. The Kragujevac was also very interesting to me. What happened here as an analysis is very important for Kragujevac, so let's see what the picture is today and what projections can be made based on this methodology. What you need to say, and it's about Kragujevac, it's, however, some general data, which is significant. On that basis, we can see, and the whole Serbian public, what are the movements. The town of Kragujevac, located in the central part of the forest, stretches to an area of about 835 square kilometers. The territory of the city consists of 57 populated towns, 77 local communities, 32 in the town and 45 in the village. This is what I'm saying, to see what is of the entire resources of Kragujevac, which is very important for the entire forest, used. On the last census, which covered the project in 2002, Kragujevac had nearly 181,000 inhabitants, of which 5070 were then abroad. Of the 175,802 inhabitants, nearly 147,000 lived in the city, and in villages, watch out, somewhere near 30,000 inhabitants. Thus, the total number of residents observed for 11 years was increased only by 788. In the city lives, a very significant data, and about 2,257 refugees, 13,600 internally displaced persons, so the total population is close to 200,000. According to the latest census, Kragujevac has about 60,000 households, dominated by four household members, the average family has about three members. In terms of the full structure of the city's inhabitants, 49% are men, 51% are women. For many years, Kragujevac has characterized a negative natural growth, from 1996 to 2004, when the number of people born was greater than the number of deaths, and in the last 10 years, this is a significant methodological for the projection of the situation, today, the following changes occurred: a decrease in the number of children and young people up to 19 years by 6%, an increase in the number of people aged 11%, an increase in age by 30%. What is mentioned as the cause of change in the age and full structure of the population is, among other things, a major war disaster, expressed mortality, decline of birth, migration of the population, transition from agricultural to non-agricultural population. In the total population, persons aged 15 to 29 participate with 21%. In the last 10 years, there has been a tendency to decline in the number of active populations by 4%, the number of sustained persons by 2%. Of the total number of employees, 46% are women. Since 2002, the number of employed active populations has been steadily decreasing. So this is the data that Group 484 came up with, based on statistics from the town of Kragujevac, compared to the National Employment Service, in this project behind which the EU is behind, with its finances. Of the 83,626 active population, nearly 62,000 were employed. In 2003, 45.2% of the active population, 51,676 people, were employed. So, compared to 2003, there was a fall. In 2003 nearly 54,000 people were employed. The Kragujevac economy is in the process of restructuring. Honestly, it's not clear when this is defined, which means restructuring in the context of the entire economy, but let's base on concrete data. The city's economy employs 1,180 companies, including 20 large companies, which was in 2006. There are 4,805 private shops in Kragujevac in 2006. It dominates the store, with 1,645, craftsmanship, with 1,495 and catering, with 428 shops. The number of employees in the economy is almost halved. A considerable number of workers have lost their jobs, making the gray economy a reality of the city. In this context, we thought that Mr Ljajic would be involved in this debate too, because somehow we associate this story with his resolution ministry, so in order for the picture to be a little more complete, we might also be able to consult him about the gray economy, that is, the violation of labour rights. Okay, what's -- there it is, let's move on. This set of laws is on the agenda. I'm trying to paint, based on the results of this project's research. He says there were 6,487 workers at the Employment Service programme in 2003, around 4,600 people in 2006. Most of the unemployed, this is a significant piece of information, Mrs Kalanovic, in Kragujevac provided the existence of city fleas. In the education structure, the largest participation of the population with medium professional training – 38.2% in 2003 and 47.4% in 2005 respectively. With higher and higher education, 9.4% of the population was in 2003, while in 2005, their percentage was increased to 12.3%. The number of illiterate persons has been reduced, it is good data, compared to 2003 and is 2%, but it is completely depressing that most of the unemployed people in Kragujevac have solved their existence on fleas. There seems to be a similar situation in Belgrade. We're going back to this data. In 2006, 24,216 unemployed persons were registered in Kragujevac, with 59% of women. Compared to 2003, the number of people registered to the National Employment Service increased by 9%. Among other things, this is also the important data, the most vulnerable groups in the total population of the city, with approximately 13% in 2003 and 14% in 2006, respectively, are children and youth with special needs, Roma, children without parental ageing, children and youth from families of displaced persons, young material security users, young unemployed. In view of the criteria for the exercise of the right to a child's supplement, these persons could also be classified in vulnerable groups. As for the Roma, the census found that 1,154 Roma, 573 men, 581 women live in the city. Roma in town live in nine settlements. These are the largest groups, but Roma is in all the settlements. It is estimated that 66.8% of Roma are poor, 12% are extremely poor. The unemployment rate is two and more times higher than in the total population. When it comes to refugees and displaced persons, according to the Commissioner for Refugees, in 2003 there were 2,257 refugees, 13,300 displaced persons. According to the latest 2005 census, 865 have been reported, until the number of displaced has changed significantly. It has an important impact, and we haven't talked about them at all, on the overall job picture, and it opens up the question – how do you think to include these people, in the context of active employment policy, in working-productive and capable people? When it comes to unemployed persons, young people under 29 can also be classified as risk groups. This is a devastating piece of information for Kragujevac and all of Serbia. According to the National Employment Service, the number of these persons in 2005 was 5.151 and in 2006 8,690. In doing so, what is very important, we can see in that figure what structure is, so 4,871 faces from 19 to 25 years old, 3,819 persons – 26 to 30 years old. These individuals account for 35.8% of the total number of unemployed persons, 57% of whom are female. So when we talk about the Millennium Goals set by the UN, about what was always the "silver" of the Serbian society, and nobody can deny it, that Serbian society has always advocated society without discrimination, we see in concrete data that, in fact, Serbian society has been completely unholy, it may be too harsh, but to a greater extent an unholy solution to all these problems, given that they have been found in this way. In doing so, what is a very strong impression, is that the state is mostly blind to a precise number, although, truth to will, a precise number is difficult to determine, but at least in the most possible number of these problems, or, if it sees them, there is no adequate way to solve terrible existential problems. What are the recommendations for this indicator, so a youth unemployment rate of up to 29 years in Kragujevac territory? We're talking about December 2006. The last intersection of this project was November 30th, 2006. So, as can be seen, the total number of unemployed at the end of 2005 was 22,106 people. About 43% of that was below 30. It's 2006. So, there's no global financial crisis, it's about implementing certain reforms in society, you have an overall international environment that's in the mood to justify the democratic power that brought down Milosevic, you have the support of the most developed Western European democracies, and those overseas, firstly, I mean Washington and Washington administration, and you have this situation in 2006, six years after the October changes. What should also be said, correctness is doing, a trend in increasing overall unemployment, although not among young people, Group 484, said, continued in 2006. This is what the figures say at the end of 2006, there were 24,216 unemployed, and between 8,942 young and 30 years of age. In percent, it's 36.9%. Although the total unemployment rate of the young population has dropped by 6% up to 30 years, this decline actually does not exist. In fact, total unemployment increased by 8.7% over a year in Kragujevac, while youth employment decreased by 6.1%. So, methodologically, we can use this as curves that can provide projections, conditionally speaking, for two to five years, and then I guess you had all of this in mind when you were making these packages of laws and analysing the effects of their enforceability. It's significant, and it can be related to, for example, the opportunities that you and I had to look at the other day, and I'm really glad that it inspired you, again and as a woman, to ask around and see how much competition there is for doctors, is the problem with the lack of these places, why is that child planning to leave the country and finish high school medical engineering. Then the second question arises – how many doctors can, if they only live on the medical salary, survive in the state of Serbia? What should follow that profession is the security of such a climate that everyone with their professional training can live a life of decent men, and there is a degree of responsibility, you will admit, the largest, because there is not much space in the state of Serbia. It's a fact and we all know it. So what the Group found here is the average representation of young people, in both years total unemployment was 40%, which is a high percentage. I'm saying all of this for a reason to paint the fact that unemployment and carelessness about vulnerable groups is a continuous process, only the financial crisis has brought it to the surface. Of course, I don't think you're responsible for this situation, but you've taken responsibility to solve the problems you've encountered. We're trying to figure out how everything that's been found will be able to get rid of it in the next five years. No one is saying that this law can be fully implemented in a year or two days, or what the strategy is in 10 years. What they have noted is that among young people there is gender discrimination in employment, so almost 60% of all unemployed women are part of the population. The recommendations that are based on everything given concern a very interesting indicator, which is the level of budget for funding and employment of disabled people, for example, up to 30 years in the town of Kragujevac. The last cut was December 2006, 18 people were scheduled to be hired, 90,000 dinars per person, and the total planned budget was one million and 620,000 dinars. The conditions for tax exemptions, the exemption from payment of contributions to the employment of new persons with disabilities, are laid down, therefore, nothing new in relation to the proposed legal solutions. By hiring five or more persons, regardless of the years of life, the employer receives a grant of 90,000 dinars per face and employs them indefinitely, minimum every two years. We come to what is recorded in practice. It is not known the number of persons up to 30 years in this category who have been employed in this way. You'll admit, Mrs. Kalanovic, that this is a fact, it can't be tied to everything, but it is a fact. I'm interested in how the state thinks it affects the change in this practice, regardless of the state's actions in terms of subsidies or tax exemptions? The de facto in practice is not feasible, even if not based on this research and not in the town of Kragujevac. According to the National Employment Service records, there are 1.515 registered persons with disabilities, and of which 261 persons are users of the Centre for Social Work, with a tendency to increase. What is recording the results of the research for Užice, again I will not be burdening you with a bunch of data, only that we have insight into what is now a process that is in an insecure situation, on the last 2002 census, the municipality of Užica had 82,303 inhabitants, of which 69, or close to 70% of the working capacity. The ratio of male and female population is 48.4 to 51.7 and the proportion of young people aged 15 to 29 in the total population is 21%. According to the 2002 census, Uzice has 27,000 households and is dominated by four household members, with a decline of 0.7% per year between 2002 and 2006. In the category – unemployed persons from 18 to 24 years in the municipality of Užica, on 31 January 2005, on the basis of the records of the National Employment Service, the Užica branch, 1,271 unemployed persons of age were reported. The above data indicate that the number of unemployed young people is on a steady rise, and the main cause of this trend is the transition movement in the economy of the region and the Republic. This is very important. The second, true, minor cause, is the lack of adequate educational institutions for secondary school education, and here we see the lack of real action by, say, the National Employment Service, that it finally probes what educational profiles are needed for society in Serbia and how young people can be employed. Among other things, what was not sufficiently expressed, and there were needs for this, these are schools that would educate carpenters, army builders, etc. In the case of disabled persons, Užica included 49 out of 78 people, 18 to 30 years of age, with different disabilities, regardless of whether they were motor or sensory. People are organized into four associations. It was seen that there was no educational structure among the data received, and that was the lack of the Užice branch. This inequality and incoherence of data, which lasts for many years, is again something that, as people who try to gain a clear picture of the state of the working-age population and the level of employment, or unemployment, is startling us. As far as the sex structure is concerned, the situation is the following, of the 49 users covered by social protection, 29 are male and 20 female. When it comes to the town of Nis, what should be mentioned here is that Nis, with about 250,000 inhabitants, the second largest city in Serbia, once the industrial and economic centre of the region, shares the fate of most cities with a similar structure of the economy and population in Serbia, in the Western Balkans. What kind of structure is that? Pre-named enterprises by capacity and by the number of employees of machinery, electronic, textile industries cannot monitor modern market movements. So all this is happening before the global financial crisis and what is now the everyday one in Serbia. The low degree of restructuring and privatisation and the delay of serious reforms in the economy have led to the poverty of a larger number of residents, strengthening the grey economy, increasing social tensions. Nis, on the other hand, has the conditions that, using existing resources, in the perspective, they achieve stable development, but on new grounds and, according to Group 484, according to European standards. We ask her now – when? Just tell us what year, will it be in five, 10, 15 years and what will happen to all the people who need to survive this time interval, since the reforms are obviously not implemented? In doing so, it is necessary to implement, as Group 484, many reforms say, and to establish new direction of development, revitalise and restructure existing perspective systems, and in order to achieve all this, it is necessary to design a sustainable development strategy. I'd like to know what makes a development sustainable. It seems, first of all, financials and stable economic activity, but, see, I may be wrong. What was significant for the picture of Nis, these are the available resources of the city which were not used, among other things, favourable geographical position, with a favourable hydrological situation, a space of more than 597 square kilometers, geothermal waters in locations Niška Banja, Kravlje, Miljkovac, Ostrovica, mineral waters in the Jelašnica area, karsna water production for drinking water in the area of the Dry Mountain, fertile agricultural land suitable for warfare, fruit growing, wine growing, medicinal plants, tobacco, indigenous species. This is a question for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development – why are these resources not used in the best possible way? That would mean exploiting the entire region, for example. Natural values of the dry mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain range, the Jelašnička and the Sisčeva gorge, endemic and relic plant species, renewable energy sources, a very important item that is useful for overcoming the effects of the global economic crisis, such as water, wind, sun, biomass and satisfying conditions for hunting development. Since it wasn't used, let's see how the unemployment rate in Nis grew. In 2005, it was almost 30%, to be precise, 29.91%, and in 2006 – 30.86%. What were the recommendations back then? Design a much more flexible programme for the unemployed, which would involve a wider circle of social actors, based on previously mapped potentials. The potential for potential planning also falls under much more detailed databases, which are missing. I'm asking you, did you in the meantime create databases that could mean mapping potentials, because that would be a significant piece of information that participates in solving the problem of the unemployed? When it comes to Belgrade, for some reason, the Group has chosen the Palilula municipality and there are also indicators that do not differ greatly from all those centres, but what is significant is that in Belgrade, however, it is much easier to live than in other Serbian cities, that most people who in Serbia cannot achieve all the work potential, to achieve, firstly, the right to existence, come to Belgrade, and then happen in the most brutal way to be returned from Belgrade to their place of residence. I hope the state has that in mind and realizes that there will be more transition migration. An increasing number of people say that, in fact, only in Belgrade can still make money. We're interested in what you predict in this regard? What would be the general conclusions of Group 484, to finally bring the end of the presentation, firstly, to the Serbian public, the results of this project, is that in all five of the cities analysed, unemployment has steadily increased from 2003 to 2006. The youth share of up to 30 years, in the total number of unemployed persons, ranges to 30%, say, in Palilula, Belgrade, to, even, 73.4% in Kragujevac, at the end of 2005. On the other hand, in all cities, young to 30 years of age account for a maximum of 21% of the total population. This is symptomatic, for several reasons. First, there is a proportion between the share of the young population in the general population of Serbia and the unemployment rate among the young population. In fact, although the young minority population is in the general population, the unemployment rate among the population is significantly higher than among the older working population. So if, as one of the main indicators for the monitoring of poverty, which was the subject of this project, unemployment is taken, then we need to realize that there has not only been progress in this area, but unemployment has been steadily increasing since 2003. Active employment measures and programmes, for which funds are allocated from the budget of local self-government, which were provided for by the then law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment, this is the topic and today's agenda, not seen in this survey. Such measures should include training, retraining, prequalification and other. In addition to regular activities of the National Employment Service, alternative ways of solving these problems, through programmes and funding of local self-government, have not been observed except in Kragujevac. In fact, this was a system of public works, there were employment of particularly endangered categories. It seems to me that you have also cited as one of the items for solving the problem of hiring endangered categories, namely, public works. I think I missed that information. I'm sorry if you said that, and I didn't mention it. We would like to know what extent public works are planned to take place in, so let's see what part of the population will be affected by this and if you have a picture of certain cities in Serbia that are important to people's lives, say, in Nis, Leskovec, Piroth, in all those drastically undeveloped parts of Serbia, again in the context of regional development? What was also observed at the level of local self-government and cities covered by this project? There are no clear plans to solve youth problems. This shows the fact that almost nowhere there was an action plan for young people, as well as a youth strategy. The adoption of these documents is also recommended in the poverty reduction strategy. So in such a situation, it is quite understandable that there is no targeted strategic approach to solving youth problems, namely, and vulnerable youth groups. Data on different categories of vulnerable youth groups exist, primarily, in social work centres. What was seen as a negative trend? The data that social work centres have very often are unsettled and non-transparent, files, absence of electronic databases etc. Secondly, communication, which is also a very significant data, seems to me to have not changed, the social work centre with the authorities of local self-government and other institutions, primarily, with the National Employment Service, is at a completely unsatisfactory level. It gets the impression that all these institutions, if they can be called institutional capacity, function in some closed spaces, as if they were alienated from one another, given that these problems exist today. My personal experience says it's like that, but it doesn't have to be a rule; maybe I went that way, but it doesn't have to be, statistically speaking, the rule. I'll let him say I'm wrong. In addition to strategic documents dealing with specific youth categories, no shifts have been observed in other areas either. A huge lack of infrastructure for young people has been observed in all cities surveyed, including Belgrade. This is, first of all, youth centres, clubs, all those institutions that would have included them in society and, conditionally speaking, employ this category of people, i.e. a new population, which has now reached the youth category, following this survey. In all these cities, a trend of relative reduction in social giving has been observed. It seems to me that this trend will continue to be expressed. So, while social giving has increased nominally since 2003, these increases have not followed the trend in budget growth, inflation movements, or the trend in unemployment rates. Realistically, it can be said that social contributions, on the day of the completion of the project, were less than they were in 2003, and that was obviously a trend. As a very common problem in all municipalities, it is necessary to mention a lack of data, or a very poor state of data. The databases in most state services are, in terms of software solutions, very lagging behind. In some cases, e.g. in Užica, the Centre for Social Work does not even have an electronic database, all data is stored in the form of a file. Additional difficulties arise when data from different institutions need to be compared, e.g. at the Centre for Social Labour and Municipal Social Policy Services. Due to the incompatibility of the database of different institutions, the collaboration is sometimes very difficult, which, of course, affects analysis and planning. I assume you also have a problem of a similar nature. Given that unemployment is constantly increasing, based on this research, that social giving is decreasing, that social and youth infrastructure is not developing, that in most cases there are no clear plans and bodies dealing with vulnerable categories of young people and that most of the official institutions are not familiar, we can conclude only that there has been no major shift in the realization of this strategy since the moment it was adopted. The recommendations that were finally given to the Serbian government are mainly recommendations that I mentioned and should enter into some reference framework for resolving the unemployment rate, just when it comes to the effects of the financial crisis. On the other hand, we have again a fact that is irrefutable and official again. In doing so, I must conclude that the media is first, or earlier than MEPs, familiar with the budget rebalance, and we are not. Among other things, I immediately fence myself, this is from the media, it's specifically about "Politics", as they find out – the budget rebalance, which is the result of the agreement with the IMF, should mean tightening the belt administration, saving, mainly, on so-called. discretionary expenses for which there is no legal obligation. These are projects, services, equipment purchases and investment works for the needs of state authorities etc. We see that there is a certain number, i.e. All ministries were ordered to reduce the number of employees by 26%. These are all the data that should participate in what is part of the answer – how do you think to implement what you gave me, even officially, in response. The other day, I mentioned, I won't repeat myself, that on December 31st 2008, that's what your Resort Ministry gave, somewhere around 64. 033 people were supposed to be out of work on a variety of grounds. I have listed here very precisely which companies are concerned, how many workers, all thanks to, I must admit, a very extensive analysis of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but also the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, since you have responded together. My questions, as a rule, cover a number of areas that are compatible and I'm trying to get the exact information, so, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you answered what was the question, and that included the Ministry of Trade and Services, because we were not clear how you planned the austerity measures, in which way the citizens who were left without a job would be able to find a new one, to withstand what is a terrible burden. To be clear, all the receipts of all of us have fallen nominally. Prices of goods and services have gone up. That was before this financial crisis. So I think that the direct impact of the crisis on price increases is just expected, so it was not clear which way, if it goes to reduce or freeze the receipt, the people will be able to survive. That's where we got all the different answers. In order not to repeat now, what was important to me, which is an official state response, that is what the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the employment sector, sent to me on 25 February 2009, because I was interested in where I cared about the development of a national employment action plan for 2009. I've been looking for this specification of funds and employment projects for the people who lost their jobs. I got an official response from you. Here's probably the right person for this kind of question should be Mr. Dinkic, but you're here and I believe you'll answer all these dilemmas that I've brought before you. I did not deal with specific legal solutions, I leave it for discussion in particular, and Dr Gordana Paunović, Milan Avramović, Dragan Zivkov, I hope that I represent them in a decent manner. I'm sure you'd hear a lot more details from them. Let's just say, what was important to me and one subject that I'm just going to touch now, Dragan Zivkov is, however, an expert on the area, for example, doping in sports and persons who have remained disabled because they were forced to, by achieving very large and high sports results, on the use of amphetamines. That's how they became disabled faces. It would be very interesting how the state will treat these people. Also, there are a number of people who have not been recognised with disabilities in relation to exposure to poor uranium. Of course, it is about wartime military disabled people, as well as wartime actors during NATO aggression. For some reason, the state wants to be blind to that problem again. Our political belief is that it does not want to be brought into a relationship with the poored uranium with the apparent impact on the health of the working-age population. It's not just the military faces, it's the civilian population. These are all the questions we will address in the discussion in detail. If my colleagues were here, they would certainly, in a much more qualified way, present much more detailed information to you, so I think the debate would be useful, in that sense, to see what the plan of activity should be for this and, conditionally speaking, for some of the following years. What I would also like to say to the public, and yet to create an image to try to get an answer to how to overcome the crisis, is to try to address the official authorities. What it is is the political functioning of the SRS is that we have never acted on the margins of institutions and societies, but within the framework of institutions and the state of guaranteed system, trying to, by reason of what we think the government does not see, or where it simply is wrong, we come to what is, I suppose, the common goal of all of us, which is a better life, that is, the life of a man in Serbia, which is obviously just an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17546	Mrs. Ragush, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17547	I'll use the five minutes I have left. What you gave me as an official response is that the priorities of the employment policy in 2009 are retaining the employment level of 2008, solving the working status of extra employees. The situation has changed significantly, this is the response since 25 February 2005. I'd like to know how you're going to achieve this priority, which financial structure is needed to achieve this priority. As a second priority, you cited increasing formal employment in the private sector and reducing regional differences. I really tried to prepare myself for this debate, to take pictures of the state of regional development. So, on the basis of one single project that I had the opportunity to see, Group 484, I'm interested in what is the plan of activity in terms of formal employment in the economic sector and reducing regional differences, then to reduce labour market supply and demand, by realising active employment policy measures? That's what you were talking about. I wouldn't force you to repeat yourself. You also cited, as one of the priorities, improving social dialogue and increasing the efficiency of the National Employment Service. Since we know that the trend in resolving political and social peace, mostly ahead of the elections, was that the privatisation funds are going to buy social peace, that in the state of Serbia the most profitable work for the state and the Parastate, we now have a problem. The data was provided by Mr Dinkic, who took over the state apparatus with eight thousand, and now there are 28 thousand. We are the first to advocate rationalization in time, and now we have a problem thinking the following way – what are you going to do with people who will inevitably lose their jobs? How will you solve the problems of people who will no longer be able to feed, at least for a while, their family? Also, you've listed several projects here, and I'd really like to see, say, what it looks like, who the project participants are, what the project's goals are. Let's say -- by severance to work; two million euros are scheduled for this project. We just have a name and financial resources. You also listed a project to support the unemployed and develop human resources – we work together to work. I'd like to see what that project looks like. It envisions 2m euros. Promotion of youth employment in Serbia, million and 200 US dollars. Supporting the development of national employment policy, this is of particular interest to me, I don't know what this project looks like, but a million and a half euros are foreseen. Support national efforts to promote youth employment and migration management. It is a project that should last between 2009 and 2012. Financial structure, precision works, $6,143,138. I'd like to see what this project looks like for some future debates. I'm nearing the end, I'd leave maybe a minute or two, I guess you'll answer some of the questions, so I can take the opportunity to conduct the dialogue. I hope you've seen this as an argumentary state display, I assume you're going to offer some framework that should give hope to people who are going to be out of a job. I'd end up here, because I'd like to leave that minute, which is precious to me, since I'm going to hear, I suppose, the answer to our dilemmas, especially if these laws will be possible in the territory of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17548	The word has Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17549	Mrs. Ragus, thank you for this exhaustive exposé about the situation in Serbia, which characterized a period which, fortunately, was behind us and thank you for objectively interpreting one of the projects that was led in the previous period, covering various topics related to social, demographic, economic and unemployment. I note that it's just one of the projects. It's a project between the European Agency for Reconstruction and an NGO, but I'm referring you to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development website. You will find a lot of information about other projects, which were run by both some government and NGOs, on projects that the National Employment Service is doing, where you can read a lot of data about, say, severance to work. I've systemized your questions, and I'm going to give an answer to six that are characteristic. I am pleased to continue with your parliamentary group and with you personally and give answers to a huge number of questions that have been raised today. Thank you very much for apostrophe of the problem in Kragujevac. Kragujevac was a city in 2006 as you described it and as described by the NGO, based on data, based on field reports. The town of Kragujevac was a city where there was a huge number of unemployed, without hope, a city where real estate fell so much, that 300 euros per square metre could buy an apartment. Kragujevac was a city from which young, university-educated, unfortunately, people came to finish school and leave it. For this reason, today I am asking questions and morals, and expertise, and access to all those who are surprised to ask the question – why is it that in Kragujevac today large funds are being invested in the country so that this Kragujevac, in the centre of Šumadija, will be brought back to life to work again, that today the square apartment cost 1,000 euros, that today, next to the North industrial zone, which was filled in for a record year, is opening two new industrial zones, one of which is "Jovavac", and one "Kormansko polje" at 400 ha, where 47 auto-industry components have a bought-out site, where all the major companies in Kragujevac are buying locations for opening their companies, where people are employed today, where new businesses are opening up?- I'm sorry. This is why my surprise, too, is great when the question is asked – why is the state investing money in the Kragujevac-Batocin highway and how is it possible that Kragujevac is favored today, are the reasons politically? No, the reasons aren't political. The reasons lie in the facts that you stated, from 2003 to 2006. I thank you very much for that. The facts are more than alarming when heard from the opposition party's mouth, which reads the report of an independent NGO. You asked Nis, the question – what is it that the state did for Nis, as the second major centre, or the first largest in central Serbia? I'm referring to some of the facts that are here today. The concept of industrial development defines the industrial development of Nis as the center for the development of the electronic industry, and today the industrial zone in Nis is being discussed, in which significant funds have been invested in the previous two years from the National Investment Plan. This zone, thanks to the extremely good Niš position, is also addressed to Corridor 10, and this is another answer to the question – why Corridor 10 is a priority over the priorities of infrastructure investment in the next period. I remind you that 2006, 2007 and 2008, also from the National Investment Plan, was placed in office of Business Incubator in Nis. I remind you that in the previous three years, through the programme "Start App", which was designed by Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic and for which two billion dinars were allocated from budgets each year, which were placed through the Development Fund for the employment of young people who for the first time received the job, approved and opened 240 companies in Nis and identified 316.905,000 only in Nis. I don't have exactly how many people work at 240 companies today, but the average in Serbia is in companies that we called "Start App", or companies that haven't been established before, but were founded for the first time, to work in each of them between three and four new employees. If we want to watch, we see in various shows that some of them show the rights of small businesses, such as, say, with a company between Ivanjica and Arilj, where three young people, brother and two sisters, hired 18 people who work in the textile industry, who have a whole production program provided for export. Let me remind you that in Nis and Kragujevac we have opened a significant number of companies through microcredit programmes, which received between 20,000 and 30,000 euros for those who were in the National Employment Service, and were left out of work, precisely because of the process we called - transition, which is not called nice, but which, unfortunately, we had to go through. As regards the answer to your question about forecasts how we are going to bind potentials in certain territories with individual persons, i.e. what this law foresees as forecasts of the movement of labour market, I refer to Article 63 of this Law, which very precisely defines that forecasts movements on the labour market are activities aimed at seeing and monitoring trends, conditions and future needs of employers, through a survey with employers at national and regional level, in order to adapt active employment policy measures to these needs. I also note that local councils will have a significant role to play, and the National Employment Service will, through its coordination with branches on the ground, through small "svot" analyses with individual individual action plans and forecasts concerning the needs of employers, influence active employment measures and new employment. What I'm saying is that public works in previous years have been directed towards the commitment of employment to more employable groups. To clarify once again, these groups are not just people with disabilities, they are also about the Roma, which you mentioned, they are also about the faces of the elderly population and are about those territories that are the most underdeveloped, for the south and east of Serbia. I can talk a lot about regional development. It seems to me that regional development is the most important topic for me, because I come from central Serbia and often face the problems of people living south of Belgrade. You asked the question – how did regional development affect the previous period? I'll only list two major programs, and those who talk about development today and banks know they're two basic pillars of basic banks. One is the National Investment Plan, where just this year, for 40 of the most endangered municipalities, two billion dinars have been identified, where 100 projects will be completed to raise people's standards and give hope that even in their cities, living standards can be improved. The second pillar is the pillar on which the development of small and medium-sized enterprises lies, because it is more than a clear correlation that the development of a part is related to the number of small and medium-sized enterprises that exist in that part and that the budgetary resources that, through the Development Fund, are directed to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in underdeveloped municipalities, with only one percent of the interest subsidised, are directed to the development of existing small and medium-sized enterprises in this part, and the start-up of credits, also under, subsidised interest of 1%, provide the possibility that newly founded enterprises are favoured in these parts. Although at this point I see laughter here, I'm going to remind you that last year there's been an opening of new enterprises in underdeveloped municipalities. I will remind you of two new companies "Gruner" and "Elrad" in Vlasotinc, a new company, not a new company, but the expansion of production programs in Surdulica, a new company in Srlig, all of which are undeveloped municipalities, a new company in Medvedja and significant funds that are being placed precisely in these underdeveloped municipalities. In the end, I'd like, to understand, to say something about the records of people with disabilities. It's also not a question of who we're going to score points on. Unfortunately, there is an accurate record at the National Employment Service of unemployed persons, unemployed persons with disabilities, who have been reported. We know what kind of country we live in and without wanting to use today to mention certain cities and, with respect, families and people representing people with disabilities, I'm going to tell you that this is also about the degree of development of a country. In very underdeveloped cities, in poor municipalities, the number of people with disabilities reported is, unfortunately, zero, one, two or three, which doesn't mean that they're not there, but means that we still don't have that degree of conscience, that degree of freedom and development to wish that our family member, our child who has certain problems, physically or mentally, is involved in the world of normal people. Although I deeply believe that they are normal people, too, when I say -- normally, I apologize for using this term, I mean those people who don't have these problems. So, they're still sitting, or some of them, a large number of them are still sitting in their homes, without or with the fear of coming out, applying and joining those groups of people whose job and use of all other conditions and standards is available in Serbia, accessible. The correct record does not exist, not because these services do not work, but because we still do not have the level in Serbia that people with disabilities are ready to come to the National Service, apply, be involved in the work world and find their chances towards their opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17550	I thank Mrs Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the NIP for the concrete answers. You have another minute, so you wanted to use it. Here you go. Just get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17551	Mrs. Djukic, thank you. Mrs Kalanovic, this was, of course, only an contribution to the debate and dialogue that I think is necessary in this only place where the authorities and the opposition meet. We will certainly follow the movements in all these cities, because there are people who, first of all, are our members, so we are obliged to them, who have given us confidence in this kind of political action. I'm just interested in what the unemployment rate is, say, in Nis and Kragujevac on today, do you have that information? No one says that nothing has been done and that there has been no movement or attempt, but simply, we want to look at the complete situation and see what the predictions are. I have the impression that you've been talking about everything that's been done so far. However, it seems to me that the effects of the crisis will shift it in terms of negative trends. I am really interested in the current data on the assessment of the unemployment of Nis, Kragujevac, because they were concerned. The whole story was in the context of the clarification that the unemployment trend has existed since 2000, so there are still people coming out of the country and going with their stomachs after bread, because the climate is like that. In the context of budget rebalances, external debts, a situation that comes... Time, Mrs. Ragush. )......................................................................................................... I end up, in front of all of us, it seems to me that it will lead to us thinking about some other ways, but we need these specific data over and over, so that we can think more concretely. For your information, I'm not going to read all the messages that came to the phone, this is followed, this dialogue is good. They say that in Kragujevac it is not such a situation... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... that the situation is much worse. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17552	The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Just sign in. Two minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17553	My colleagues, respected presidents, Madam ministers, colleagues and colleagues, have already said what they had to say about these laws. For these two minutes, just a few final notes. No law will open new jobs, nor will this employment law. The new jobs create a good business climate, a free investment and entrepreneurship for Serbian citizens. This is possible when the state does not create a problem, but releases and allows it to happen. After all, in a country where there are more jobs than jobs, this law certainly will not contribute to job creation, perhaps before some other law, let's say the labour law, because, let's be fair, in this country, the burden of this job shortage is borne only by the unemployed, and not by the employees. I'm talking about a labour law that would boost labour market competition, which would allow the burden of job shortages, while such shortfall exists, to be equally borne by both employees and unemployed, which means it's easier to lose a job, because it's in the interests of the unemployed. In any case, all of this I have said, and what is only possible as a premise for job creation, by chance, is not possible with this government that is trying to trample Parliament. In what normal country do ministers talk about reducing the salary of MPs? It can only be the other way around. The new government, likely, or almost certainly will have to choose another parliament, not a parliament that tolerates a months-long campaign against itself, in which the ruling majority does not react to the lies of some of its members who say the salaries in this parliament are four or five times higher than they are. One of them said that last night, I mean, what's easier to skip than go around. All these are circumstances that will only then lead to the opening of new jobs, and until then, LDP will give, as so far, its constructive contribution to the work of this Parliament, which, unfortunately, Madam President, thanks to your passivity is suffering blows and not responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17554	Thank you. Mr. Petar Petrovic has a word. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17555	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will, in the remaining time of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, point out several members of this employment and unemployment insurance law. At first, I would like to say that this parliamentary group will vote for both of these laws in principle, and I assume that several amendments to this parliamentary group will also be accepted, so we will accept both laws as a whole. When it comes to unemployment in Serbia, it is certainly one of the biggest problems of this country and there we have to distinguish between two types of unemployment – those who have completed a school, whether high or high, and have no job, cannot get to work, and those people who, for various reasons, for privatisation or some other reason, have lost their job at 15, 20, 25 or 30 years of employment, and have no conditions to retire. These problems must be solved not only by this law but also by other means. What bothers us from the Parliamentary Group, and especially from the Single Serbia, when it comes to the employment law, is that in article 22, you have prescribed that the right to open a employment agency cannot acquire a person sentenced to a prison sentence more than six months. I think you've come a little hard on that provision, given that many people are sentenced to six months for traffic and so on, which have nothing to do with employment. Why stop them from setting up an employment agency under a sustained sentence? This has nothing to do with the Agency opening up, so it's not a crime in that area, and any living man in traffic can, unfortunately, happen for these or those reasons. Also, in article 34, when it comes to employment agencies, you foresee that employment can also be done without the intervention of the National Employment Service. We know that we live in a country where everything and everything is possible, and at least it was the obligation of someone looking for a job to apply to the National Employment Service before they enter into a working relationship with an employer. If we have more types of employers, I don't want to count, I don't want to waste any time, I don't think we should let employment be done without this formal approach, which is to apply to the National Employment Service. When it comes to the employment agency's obligations, you predicted that a person with high professional training must be employed for the agency to work. It's not questionable for big environments, where there's a lot of people with high-end expertise waiting for work. I ask you a question – what are we going to do with small municipalities, where do we say there are no people with a high level of expertise, or do they not want to come to work in these small underdeveloped municipalities? Does that mean you can't form an employment agency, and there are interested in being employees? That I suggest to you in front of J.S., that you reconsider that and further improve the text of the law. Otherwise, what I want to say, in the end, is - to prevent, or in some way, the number of unemployed people in Serbia, there must be a string between education and the National Employment Service, because there is still a lot of money from this country's cash register today, and there is no money, it's separate for the education of certain staff, certain profiles, occupations that do not have the opportunity to become employed in a certain period of time, because we do not have the planning of personnel in this country. We, for example, in Serbia, do not know what will be needed for 10 or 15 years. I ask you to pay a little more attention to this subject, to spend more time planning personnel, cooperation between educational institutions, national employment services and businesses as a whole and out of business, to see what this country needs, which are profiled professions, not to waste money, to educate people for the National Employment Service, and then to invest money in their retraining and retraining, change of profession, etc. It's a multi-year problem in this country. I'm sure we can't solve this for a short period of time, but at least have it for the next period of consideration. Finally, once again, let me tell you that the SPS-JS Group will support this law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17556	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17557	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Madam Minister, I have one very constructive and, I think, a smart proposal, which is to replace Mr Mirko Cvetkovic and to choose Mrs Kalanovic for the Prime Minister, because in previous days she has shown very clearly to all of us that she is also very well understood in the NIP, that is her portfolio, but also in employment, she is also understood in the chambers of commerce, so I think it might be good for her to remain for our next point, when we talk about the resolution of some judges, or the state of justice. I think my proposal is very constructive. We are considering two draft laws which, in the end, aim to reduce unemployment, i.e. to increase the number of employees. According to Mr. Vladimir Ilic, director of the National Employment Service, since November 2008, up to today, about 10,000 people are out of work every month in Serbia. He also criticises the existence of SOS stores, several of them already opened in Belgrade, because, he says, many who remain unemployed these days do not report at all to the National Employment Service, or participate in active employment measures, so that they can shop at SOS stores, where products are 20 to 70% cheaper. That's what's left of the ZES coalition's promise and plan. The promise turned into the opening of SOS shops and the opening of folk cuisines. The government calls itself socially responsible. Dear citizens, I simply wonder what they would do to us if by any chance they were socially irresponsible to the government. On the other night, the president of the DS and the president of the state accused the opposition, all opposition parties in Serbia, of collecting 'primitive political points' at the time of the crisis. Those are his words. It is sad to hear that the president of the largest party making up the ruling coalition and president of the state, for all constructive proposals, which are coming, among other things, to this home, says they are primitive political points. I would ask the president of the state to take care, because six months ago he was the one who was talking about a major reconciliation in Serbia. This morning, my colleague Milos Aligrudic talked about the relationship, even, these congregations according to proposals coming from the DSS, i.e. that there are 13 legislative proposals or measures proposed by the DSS, which were not on the agenda. They did not find themselves on the agenda, but as we can see, they did not find themselves on the congregation site as proposals waiting to be considered. The approach to the economic crisis and the measures proposed by the government can be reduced to several words and procedures, which are in no way proactive. Our government is proposing a reduction, proposing freezing, proposing layoffs and proposing a burden. So, all the proactive measures themselves. Businesses and economists say the government, by its economic measures, has completely neglected the economy. If we know that exports and imports in this quarter have fallen by 30%, I guess that's enough evidence that business activity is also very slowed down. So, you don't have to be a great expert, because we're talking about laws that are supposed to help citizens get a job, so you know that if the economy doesn't work properly, if you plan to fire 8,000 people, there will be hardly any opening of new jobs. Yesterday, Mrs Kalanovic also spoke about it, and it seems to me that the whole incentive for economic development or employment is reduced to public works, where it is planned to be employed by about 5,000 workers, or that it will come down to another measure, so that it is very little, and we know that about three billion dinars have been allocated for all of this, with Mr. Vladimir Ilic, I remind again, director of the National Employment Service, expressed concern that the budget rebalancing could be reduced and that amount. That should be taken care of when we get rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17558	The word has the People's MP Gorica Mojovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17559	Dear Madam President, the honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about some newspapers that, compared to the existing one, are passing a new law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment. It seems to me that we all understood the essence of this law and its basic intensity, which is a more active relationship to employment. What exactly is this about? How many times have we had the opportunity to hear, in various surveys, reports, statements, polls, approximately, the following sentence: on the list and on the employment services of a municipality, so many people are waiting for work? How many times have we had a chance to hear an individual: for so many months, for so many years I've been waiting for a job? If I were to translate the essence of this law, that sentence: "I am waiting for a job", it should read in the future: "Search for a job and for a country and for an individual", the state through its national employment service, and the individual through what is foreseen by this law as an active measure of his relationship with employment. Of course, the basic instrument of this more active relationship and the definition of relationships, in terms of "I'm looking for a job", is envisaged by the adoption of an action plan of employment, with everything that it should contain as priorities, objectives, categories of people who are trying to get to work, training plans, requalifications, prequalifications, etc., and, in the case of an individual, it has been repeated on several occasions, it implies the adoption of an individual employment plan, of course, with exceptions when it comes to jobs that are really needed on the labour market. I think it would be a more pronounced need for the rural employment service not only to be academic, but also to be left with the possibility that the province will establish an action plan for employment, so that the law provides for the establishment of a special rural employment service. One measure that is somewhat more restrictive than the existing law, which has already been mentioned here, relates to the reduction of unemployment benefits, from 60 to 50%, and with the obligation to increase the length of the employment. I haven't had a chance to hear, regardless of this particular restriction, that the law provides for another incentive measure. This incentive measure implies that one who acquires the right to, after being fired and remains unemployed, receive compensation for a certain period of time, if, within that time limit, is employed indefinitely, he has the right to make up for up to 30% of the compensation. It seems to me that, in the spirit of this whole law, a more active incentive relationship to employment is predicted. What I think is, too, well, without the need for further elaborate, it is a reduction in the number of board members in the National Employment Service, including the abolition of the Supervisory Board. As far as I know in practice, the supervisory boards are very quickly related to the public service administrations, if they are still receiving some decent compensation, there is not much of supervision and control. What I'm really not sure is that in the existing laws on state administration and government, it's a matter of supervision that should also be carried out by the resolution ministries and the Serbian government. We had a recent case with the Serbian government's recommendation to cut salaries in public enterprises, so someone listened, someone didn't. I really think it would be necessary, in any existing law, whether in any new legal act, to make it much clearer and more precise to define what control measures mean and what are the consequences in the event that these surveillance reports are negative. Finally, to conclude, I believe that this law has a lot of good and useful newspapers, above all, in this more active attitude towards employment, but it is already said, if there is no strengthening the economy, faster economic development, it seems to me that even a good law will not have enough success in applying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17560	I give my word to MP Milan Lapčević. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17561	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, in these two minutes, I will only briefly look back on what Mrs. Minister said about investing the state in employment in Nis and the Nis region. So in 2005, a business incubator was opened in Nis, with funding from the Norwegian government, not NIP funds. There were 12 firms in that incubator, now there are five. Through the start of a credit app, says Ms. Minister, 240 new companies have opened, a significant number has been opened through microcredits etc. So the state invested a lot here, but the number of unemployed was 35,000, and now it's 36,000. So it didn't help to reduce the number of unemployed. Unfortunately, Nis, like the whole south of Serbia, remains one of the most underdeveloped areas, from which the population is evicted and the number of unemployed is growing, and the decline in industrial production is the most significant. Mrs. Minister said the other day, when she explained this law, that almost every speech by every politician in Serbia today starts with the words that unemployment today is the biggest problem in this country and that whoever solves this problem will be a god for this country. Unfortunately, this is true and thus the ruling coalition was the most concerned in the previous campaign, and yet they echo the words of a year ago – that immediately after the election, 200,000 new jobs are coming, big foreign investments are coming, Fiat is coming, Mercedes is coming, everyone is at the door, only people need to be defined for such a coalition. He, of course, defined himself, believing it would be true, and today we have the biggest drop in industrial production in the last 10 or 20 years, which in the previous month was over 20%. There's nothing from foreign investment. Even those who were here, like Holts and some other companies, are reducing their investments, the Sartid is closing down. So these facts are all unpleasant, but ultimately, you have to account for everything that was promised, and it's not going to be fulfilled, and it's going to be worse and worse. To conclude, this law has certain advantages, it has many shortcomings, but no law will solve the problem of unemployment in Serbia. It will be solved only by a stable political climate, when public enterprises do not have this kind of monopoly and this kind of pay waste and when this government leaves the political scene and comes to power by some more capable coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17562	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17563	Dear Madam President, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this item of the agenda for the reason that the two draft employment laws are the subject of resolving the problem of maintaining existing jobs and opening new jobs, and resolving the employment problem is one of the priorities of the list for European Serbia. In 2007, the unemployment rate in Serbia was 18.8% and the employment rate was 51.5%. Both indicators are significantly more unfavourable than in any EU country. Such a negative situation in the labour market is due to inherited problems and transitions to the market economy. Employment growth largely depends on the country's success in agricultural development activities, on attracting foreign direct investment, on progress in the European integration process, on improving regional economic co-operation and achieving intensive economic co-operation with countries that can contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. In the pre-election program we had more ambitious and greater desires and plans and goals. However, the global economic crisis has inevitably spread to our country's premises and has gripped Serbia's economy. This does not change our relationship with the problem of employment, because it is directly or indirectly related to each person, but only to putting our plans and activities into real terms and taking measures that can be realised and deliver results in the new conditions. According to the information listed at the outset, it is clear that the existing legislation in the field of employment, above all, the now applicable employment and unemployment insurance law of 2003, no longer provides an adequate legal framework for the planning and implementation of the employment policy, does not provide for a balance between active and passive employment policies, that the bulky apparatus, inertness and slowness of the service do not provide satisfactory results. A new constitution of the Republic of Serbia has given the framework for the draft legislation on employment and insurance, and basic solutions and directives, resolutions and recommendations by the EU and the Council of Europe have been used in drafting the text. It is also in line with the obligations and standards of relevant conventions, concluded under the auspices of the International Labour Organisation, and the highest standards of parallel law in the field of employment have been respected. I will not convince and analyse the individual provisions of the bill, because this has already been discussed in this debate and I assume that all MPs, at least those interested in this area, have read the bill's proposals. I'm only going to point out some of the effects that are expected by applying a law like this. First, improving the quality of planning and implementing an active employment policy through the institutionalisation of the National Employment Action Plan, as the main instrument and policy, in line with the annual cycle of budgetary planning and with clearly defined roles of policymakers and policymakers, above all, the employment departments and the National Employment Service. The second is the establishment of a balance between active and passive labour market programmes, which is now disrupted in favour of passive programmes, through an amended incentive system, favouring work and employment and encouraging active job search. Thirdly, there will be savings at the annual level from liabilities based on the cash compensation for unemployment, changes in height and the length of the cash compensation. The savings can be used to gradually reduce the delay in paying the compensation to users and reroute to strengthen active labour market programmes. Fourth, reducing the administrative burden of employers, unemployed and national services, through simplification of procedures and records. For these reasons, DS MPs and the entire list of ZES will support this bill and will vote in favour of its adoption. The second draft law on the agenda under this point is the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. The provisions of this law have been analysed in detail in the discussion so far, so I won't stick to it. In order to make clear to you my understanding of the importance of the adoption of this law, I will tell you about one attempt to solve the problem treated by this bill. In the late 1990s, unfortunately, although it was not so long ago, the Vrsac actively worked the Association, the Women's Rights Centre, which fought against all forms of violence and discrimination. Centrom was run by a woman, an expert defecologist, with a narrow speciality in working with deaf and deaf people, who spent her working life in a special school and was already retired. She presented to us the problem of children who finish this primary special school, but who are not trained for any occupation and remain left to their families and themselves, without being able to employ and socialize. She launched an initiative to set up a business for professional training and employment of disabled people and persons distracted in the development. Vrsac municipality, the Hemofarm Foundation, the study company, the Society for Care of Persons Disrupted in Development responded, and they personally established such a company. Legal frameworks were such that it could only be in the form of a limited liability society, since neither the Company Act, which was then in force, nor the Company Act, which is now in force, know this specific type of company for the employment of disabled persons. The municipality put the business space on use, the Hemofarm Foundation financially helped. Unfortunately, the founder's further concern remains only on it. Everything else we had to do ourselves, or members of the Women's Rights Centre, and volunteering. By the way of the project for the Center, we came up with the funds that we had arranged for the space, obtained furniture, computer, telephone, sewing machines, weaves, other accessories and work materials. The students of the special school came, from the disabled came deaf and deaf. We hired two professional tailors and one art teacher, who trained them to tailor, sew, paint and paint fabrics, weave and shriek, paint and paint and paint, paint and paint and paint and paint glass. Among others, a young man, who was deaf, studied the tailoring craftsmanship and opened an independent tailoring workshop, that is, a shop that he and his family live on today. I'll never forget a boy who had a damaged motor. When he started coming, he couldn't roll his wool on the bench. In a few months, he learned to spell and to weave. All he had to see was, when we entered the rooms, his eyes were shining with joy and joy that he could show me something new he had done. There was a young beautiful girl who was, unfortunately, deaf. At first, she was associative, frightened, sat alone in the corner and barely slowly involved in working with the others. Over time, she was mastered by a tailoring craft, and then we hired her as a tailor. She was so socialized that she eventually performed as a model at fashion shows, because of what was created in these companies, we held fashion shows at "Sava Center", for winning one award, then at the Diplomatic Club and at the Canadian Embassy, because the Canadian Embassy funded several projects for both the Women's Rights Centre and this company. The ambassador at the time was thrilled with what she saw and could not believe that it was all created in such a workshop where disabled persons and persons were being distracted in development, so she came to a private visit to see for herself. Since there was no legal regulation, nor the obligation of state authorities and services to help in any way, or to subsidise the work of such an enterprise, our enthusiasm and effort were not enough for this company to survive and develop. In the absence of regulations to regulate it, the municipality was three years ago, and I must stress that DS did not participate in the local government then, took the business space of this company and decided to shut it down. I can really say that I was very pleased when I read this bill and saw it regulate the very establishment and work of these types of enterprises for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. The issue of social inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life, including the promotion of their participation in the labour market, has great importance, not only as a problem of social policy, but also as a question of respect for human rights. The most important goal to achieve by adopting and implementing this law is to break existing prejudices with regard to persons with disabilities and to include them, including in all segments of social life, socialization, economic independence, which will ensure a better quality of life for them and their families. That is why DS MPs and the lists for European Serbia will also support the bill and vote for it in the voting day. It's not enough just to pass these laws, so I'd like to ask that we all engage and focus our strengths so that these laws actually live and give the results as expected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17564	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17565	Madam President, Ministers, honourable fellow Members, I am taking the opportunity to ask Ms. Minister two questions about the strategy of the National Employment Service and the law on the agenda, which, as a new legal category, introduces an act on the impact of the Minister responsible for this area, relating to the standards of the National Employment Service. In doing so, I want to point out that two cities in the southwest of Serbia, Prijepolje and Novi Pazar, and almost the whole of southern Serbia have over 50% of the unemployed working age population. What acts can bring these standards into line, and how will these services in these municipalities justify the norms that the resolute minister put before them? The other important thing and the question I want to ask the minister is – is it true that it is 21.03. The National Employment Service has ceased its education programme, i.e. volunteering, and the trainee programme, and is this in conflict with the already adopted strategy on the five-year plan, from 2005 to 2010, the National Employment Strategy? About the subject, but given the set of laws, i.e. These agenda points, as well as the situation, say there is a lack of personnel in tourism, that the last few years in this area have made concrete progress, as you think those people, who have barely been able to enroll in certain studies, to complete them, with a high average, prevent possible inability to train them, i.e. obtaining all the conditions for starting work, i.e. admission to work, in relation to any area, and in this situation – in the area of tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17566	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Mrs. Snow White Kenig-Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17567	On behalf of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, I would like to use the remaining two minutes to look at a few remarks that were made yesterday at the expense of the Bill's proposal, specifically, on the work of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as well as on the G17 Plus party itself. First of all, I would refer to the remarks of individual opposition MPs concerning the appointment of a branch director exclusively from the ranks of the National Employment Service and exclusively from the lines of the G17 Plus party. I'm from the West Coast. The director of the branch is a non-party figure. I work in the South Bare County, more specifically, in Novi Sad, which is, by the way, the largest branch office in the entire country, and the branch director is a non-partisan figure. The Director of the Regional Employment Service is a non-partisan figure, which means that with G17 plus, which has, of course, enough professional and competent personnel, it is really not a priority, especially with our ministries. The second remark would also refer to some opposition party MPs, who were in power by yesterday and are currently members of the National Employment Service Management Board. Why is this bill, in essence, good and when it comes to reducing the number of board members? Because some members of the Governing Board, who have also been MPs, have not appeared at more than eight in the last 20 sessions, or have fallen behind in more than six consecutive meetings and received a fee of approximately 980,000 dinars. Once again, I would say, on behalf of the G17 Group of MPs, that this bill is an excellent framework, a good legal basis, a motive that forces us to be educated for life, to study for life, and to take responsibility for our own future together with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17568	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17569	In order not to keep the MP from answering questions about trainees, given that I come from part of Serbia which, unfortunately, is not sufficiently developed. Speaking in the opening part of the new bill, I pointed out as one of its greatest values flexibility in creating active employment measures. The National Employment Strategy provides frameworks, but the law, through annual programmes, through the National Employment Action Plan, the Strategy implements both in time and in space and towards individuals. That's what I was talking about in the opening part. When it comes to active volunteering, it grows to one another, which is more favourable – hiring 10,000 trainees. This is the answer to another question – will both measures be applied during this year? Both measures will not be applied. Ten thousand trainees will replace this first measure. Why is this measure more favourable? Because people who engage as trainees will also benefit from this period being included in their work hours. To the question – whether the development of the territory on which active employment measures are proposed is seen, the answer is yes. The largest number of users of active measures is precisely from the most underdeveloped areas. I had some in front of me that were tied up, for example, for trainees, where for Novi Pazar 510 trainees are predicted, while for a far larger district, but which is slightly more developed, Rasinski, predicts 580, or, let's say, for Machvanski, which is also incomparably larger, but incomparably more developed, 290. I do not want to analyse what regions and municipalities the political parties are present in, it is true that in these regions the only criterion was the degree of economic development, which is not the rule of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Office for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the answer to the question – what happens to territorial action plans. The Vojvodina Action Plan also envisions hiring trainees from the AP Vojvodina budget on its territory, but will also be carried out with the province's employment services.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17570	Thank you, Madam Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint principled search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right under Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17571	President-in-Office, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in this remaining time that I have as representative of the Parliamentary Group and after all these statements, I want to make an even stronger position that there is no need to support the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment. In the opening part of yesterday's presentation, I said that what was confirmed through the discussion of representatives of the ruling parties, the marketing law, and now, after the presentations that were today and after the minister's interventions, I would say that this law was a complete failure. It is a complete failure because in his announcement it is pompously announced that individual plans will be introduced, and today we hear an incredible thing, that the unemployed will have to, before making individual plans, make their own sum of analysis, assess the strengths and weaknesses, the chances and threats, and therefore make their own individual plans. It's hard to imagine today's unemployed who are capable of doing this. These jobs will be done by the Employment Agency, whose establishment is foreseen by this law, by the agencies that will be paid by the state, and these are the jobs that are envisaged. Although the government has made a pompous announcement of austerity measures, the absence of employment in the public sector, all possible ways of saving the budget, these agencies will be paid by the state, from the state budget, most likely by the 1.5 billion that will be cut off to the unemployed who have more than 25 years of standing. Instead of focusing on how to promote and enable employment in the real sector, we are now saying that agencies are a chance for employment, but a chance for employment on the burden of the state budget. When this whole law is seen, from the complete destruction of the independence of the function now held by the National Employment Service, to the introduction of agencies that will be on the burden of the budget, to the parole of the type of individual plans and the sum of the analysis, I fear that this law will be a dead letter on paper and the best way for the government to withdraw it from the assembly procedure or, in the end of the line, to try, if it has already decided to adopt it, to accept amendments submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group. This law is passed, as we said yesterday, in the atmosphere and conditions of an economic crisis that the government does not have an answer to. The measures proposed by this government are far from promoting employment, far from presenting a serious development strategy in this society, they are far from having a vision of what Serbia should look like after the end of this economic crisis. I would like to say that the DSS has brought Serbia's development programme into terms of the economic crisis, where it plans a comprehensive and concrete development of Serbia, to combat the economic crisis in the next four years. With these measures, we want to show the government in the discussion of the arguments in which employment can be a priority policy, not with such empty papers, passwords, inefficient institutions and additional burden on budgets, to try to send citizens a message about how the government is doing something. I call on the government to withdraw this bill from the procedure, and if it does not wish to, in a reasoned debate in particular, respect our amendments, it implements them, in order to correct as much of this bad text of the law as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17572	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17573	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, may I, in the end, ask a question – when is one government considered responsible and human? First of all, when he does not lie to the citizens and does not use marketing moves in the name of the people to win the same people, and that, in doing so, these marketing moves will not bring any results to the citizens themselves. If we're talking about employment policy, it's really something that's very attractive right now, especially when we're sinking into a deeper economic crisis. When we use the euphemism of the "seriously employable population", we should actually use a term that I qualified yesterday, it's "work-written population", and the daily cancellations document it for us. They're people who won't get a job anywhere. We're talking about employment policy and we're glorifying it in every way possible, and it would be good to deal with the employment policy, because it's working right now, because we have really one cancellation expansion. If this employment policy is directed at those people who get fired daily, then one share of the 10,000 who get fired, 100-200, will be employed in some companies, some programs, there may be talk of occasional, temporary and minimal problem solving that is at work, but the right employment policy is when we have a really employed population, and when we employee-inflicted the newly employed population. So that's what we expect in response. As for the programme on the employment of disabled persons, according to which society really needs to show maximum concern and responsibility, we have since this morning, with the question asked by Mr Markicevic about the amendment that has been accepted on budget rebalancing and which, to this day, has not been realised, but we have no answer to what happens next, documented what this concern is in the works. I'll tell you another problem we have when it comes to this particular category of population. We are daily covered by issues of people who are disabled and who have bought on this basis a car, which is necessary for them from various needs, and who have the right to recover VAT, which are all their obligations, as far as they are concerned, administratively done. Do you know how hard it is for one such person to fill out all that paperwork, to deliver it to you, do you know how long they're waiting for that vomit? After two years, and they don't have any answers, and it's mostly going, that's the information they get, that's what we get, you make sure that's how it is, to exhaust their patience, so many give up and don't ask for it anymore. That's where you need to show concern. These people are the return of VAT, which are very important. These are their means, these are the means that they further channel to their treatment. I'm just taking a backup proposal that came from Mr. Dinkic, of course, because I have to check my pockets every time I check my bag when he proposes something, just so someone doesn't throw me those thousands of euros that I don't know what I'm gonna do right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17574	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, advertising Member Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17575	Thank you, Madam President. It's simple, I have to call Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which he says - the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and in the third position - are not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor are they to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I must ask you, since it is understood that these same rules, as well as the MPs, are respected by all present, to remind Mrs. Kalanovic, who during the presentation of the DSS MPs, and we were very argumentarily saying, we did not insult anyone, constantly laugh, throw away, and now, as Parliamentarian Palalic spoke, she threw a very offensive expression to her colleague, which we could read from her lips. It is not right to treat MPs in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17576	I ask all MPs to take care of the dignity of the Assembly and all present... (National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, from the post: I asked for this to apply to Ms. Minister. )......................................................................................................... Will you let me finish my sentence? It may be that our interpretation is wrong, but we expect the same standards that apply to us from guests and members of the government. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. We move to the 44-49th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUDGMENT, THE DISCONTINUED OF THE DIFFERENCE OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION, THE END OF THE DEBT OF THE PRIOR OF THE PUBLICATION AND THE END OF THE COURSE OF THE COURT (since 26 March 2009, under the number 1076 and 1077 – joint principled search) I thank Mrs Kalanovic and her associates for their very sacrificed work with us. In agreement with the decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for acts in the agenda on points 44 to 49 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 163(1) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slav group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes, and according to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that, according to these points of the agenda, MPs will be: Mrs Judita Popovic, LDP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miroslav Petkovic, DSS MP – Vojislav Kostunica, Marina Ragus, SRS Parliamentary Group. In accordance with Article 163, but in accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, under the number 118-76/09, 118-1076/09 and 118-1077/09, the motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office since 6 March 2009. Does the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal, Bosko Ristic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17577	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, there is one consensus in society on how a judge should be and what a court should be. Judges are expected expertise, dignity, to be people of integrity, honesty is expected. Courts are expected to be independent, independent in their work. In November and December of last year, we discussed a set of judicial laws and, as I noticed, no one stood up for an unprofessional judge, for an unworthy judge, for an unfair judge, and I didn't notice that anyone advocated an addictive judiciary. How could this have happened in this campaign, in that era of commitment to reforming the justice system, the Government adopted a regulation called - amending a regulation on the protection of the property of parts of enterprises based on the territory of the former republics of the SFRY? This Regulation was adopted on 27 November 2008. Why am I particularly pointing out this regulation? Because she's an eclectic example of what's public, what's public, and what's secret behind the hill is right. Namely, the bill promoter, the Government, or the RES, pointed out in explaining these judicial laws that it is necessary for courts to be independent, independent in their work, and that judges have certain qualities that make them worthy of working in courts. However, the same government, which has advocated these principles, for these values, has passed a regulation that virtually eliminates all its efforts for some justice, for some justice, for some independence, and for independence. In fact, this Regulation is completely unconstitutional, illegal, and as a sublegal act it is also a interference, i.e. it is placed in a superior position in relation to the Constitution, as well as in laws. I will not specifically talk about the regulation adopted in July 2008 by the previous government, I will only limit myself to this regulation, which reportedly changes the essence of the previous regulation, which had absolutely the same goal and for the same reasons was adopted, obviously, because this government, still current, is still ruling and is making regulations that do not supplement and do nothing to ensure that the laws are respected. What else can we expect from the government if such a regulation is made? This is a creative interpretation of the principle of an independent judiciary, because, under this Regulation, certain procedures are being brought before our courts, i.e. they have been suspended by the handling of these cases. It's about the next one. Namely, after the break-up of the SFRY, there are many properties left in Serbia's territory owned by companies from other republics. Their use was then, in 1991, regulated by the Government Regulation on the temporary ban on the availability of certain immovable property, movable property and rights. The newly created companies, in fact, could use the property, but could not dispose of the property and could not mortgage it. It was pure use. It's a 1991 regulation that can be understood and understood. In this way, some property, which was owned by some other legal and natural persons outside Serbia's territory, was placed in some form of protection. She survived all those complicated crisis years, in the 1990s. However, in 2004, when all the republics of the former states adopted the Agreement on Succession, and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the same agreement, the agreement was introduced into our country's legal system. The conflict agreement has become a law and, as such, has had to be respected. The essence of the agreement is that property owned by legal persons who have their seats outside Serbia's territory remains in their possession and no one has the right to dispose of the property anymore. Moreover, any ban is lifted, so that the owner may have, and not a user. I note that the owner is a legal person who is not from Serbia's territory. So it was recorded in the land book, where the land book exists, as well as in the Republic Geodetic Institute, in the catastrophe. It is clear that you have the owner, you still have the user, and then Borovo, who had certain properties, certain business premises on Serbian territory, announced the sale of its business premises, along with all the properties, properties and others. What's going on? After the ad, interested people came forward and asked the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank and the Ministry of Justice for advice on whether they could get involved in doing business with these properties we're talking about. They have not received any negative attitude, they have not received any warning that they cannot possibly buy, or that this legal work would be escalated with certain risks and that it is not very recommended to buy. So, we have a regular legal job, we have a real estate salesman, we have buyers who are interested in buying, and it happens that 15 legal entities buy certain locals and business premises of that "Borov" from Croatia, contracts are concluded, as the law requires, the Law on Transport of Immobility, overrun these contracts, pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. So, as far as customers and sellers are concerned, the contract is entirely realised, because the money provided for that sale price was paid to the seller, all with the consent of the National Bank, as well as the Ministry of Finance, who gave consent to the "Borov" to open an uninsured account to which the customers of the restaurant paid the money. We have one legal job, more legal transactions, at least 15, which is fully realised as far as the obligations of the seller and the buyers are concerned. However, only in one part of the contract has not been realised, which is the handover of property, the handover of state and purchased property. This surrender is not because of the guilt of the seller who really wanted the contract to respect the whole and to realize it, but it caused a disturbance from the one who uses the property. So, this is the Borelli-Borovo, whose status is, by the way, under question, because the Serbian Supreme Court has annulled that fusion "Borova" and "Borelia", so the question is whether it even exists, "Borovo-Borelli", or just "Borelli" and so on. We have a problem with real estate users who have been using these places for more than 10 years, knowing that they do not own these properties, but refuses to hand them over to the rightful owner, i.e. the legal predecessor of new owners, and in particular I point out that the new owners have enlisted their right of ownership in land books, enlisted in catastras. We have one clear condition of the owner's title, we have a clean state of abuse of one user. We're going back to this regulation that's analizing and pretending he doesn't know about the existence of the Constitution, which guarantees private property, pretends he doesn't know what Article 37 means. The law on property-legal relations, which precisely denotes the rules necessary, the conditions necessary for the owner to claim his property, or real estate, from the one who unwittingly holds it and that the owner normally proves that property. This regulation, I think, ignores that there is also a Law on ratification, that is, a conflict. When the regulation puts aside and brings in one member, i.e. the member states that the user of the business space will agree with the owner of the business space, in particular the 'Borelli' and the owner of 'Borovo' from Croatia, on the way or on the distribution of property-legal relations, then there is something not clear to me. What does that mean? Does the Government, the speaker of that regulation, not know what it is doing, or does it know very well, and is obviously biased in favour of one of these participants in this whole story?- I'm sorry. First of all, the government as an executive authority cannot in any event affect property-legal relations. The government cannot order how ownership rights are acquired, and the Government takes that right, Article 4 of this Regulation, because it expects the competent authorities to enter, under official duty, the right to use, i.e. the right to make use in the land or other public book on the registration of immovable property and rights over them for the benefit of the social enterprise, in order to implement the privatisation process. This, in particular, means that unless the agreement between Borova and Borelia is reached within 90 days, it is understood that the competent authority, i.e. Land Book and Catastre, write down the right to use and the right to be available in favour of Borelia. What does that mean in the second row? That means, first of all, the government doesn't use real, zero terms when it says "right to use." Based on what? On what legal basis? The right to be available, on what legal basis? What's that got to do with him? It requires something that the Government could not order the Land Book and the Catastra to do, contrary to all the laws, with positive regulations governing the acquisition of property rights, which regulate the use of real estate. It's just like you would now, as the owner of the property, let some tenant use that property, ask him to pay the rent, and then, after a while, ask the government to bring in a regulation that requires you as the owner and your tenant to make an agreement on how to resolve property-legal relations with the property over which you have the right to property. So you will wonder, why am I the owner? No, no, no, he used that property and if you don't want to make an agreement (normally, why would you make any deal, why would you negotiate with the user of those clubs, as Borovo will not benefit from that obligation imposed on him by our government), at the end of 90 days, you simply lose your property right. What's this about? This is about an abuse that the government is applying in its regulation. What does that mean? Is that what we're sending foreign investors a message that by one regulation we can change the titler, property rights, we can do whatever we want, we can order the land book to change the owner, we can take that property, we can give it to whoever we want, and you can't do anything to us?- I'm sorry. Why did I mention court independence? Why did I mention the independence of the judges in the work? Because we have information that a certain presses have obviously been made to the courts, which have in the meantime received claims from the owner, so the new owners, who have acquired the right of ownership from "Borov" in a completely legitimate way, to seek the handover of the property in which the "Boreli" is owned. The courts simply stopped the procedure, and the courts suspended the proceedings. Therefore, the judges no longer judge on the basis of these claims for the handover of property, which the prosecutors, or owners, have right to, because they have acquired valid legal work, because they have entered their right of ownership, which is evidenced by a copy of the land's book or by a copy of their possessions, because someone is in the baseless possession of their property. These are procedures that have to be done, they should be judges who are fair, who are professional, which are of integrity, these are courts that are supposed to be independent. If all that I've listed is presently in the presentation, so there's both honesty and expertise and independence, why are these procedures interrupted? I'd like to remind you that a few weeks ago, perhaps even shorter time, we had a very big problem from a ministry that asked the courts to end some proceedings in labor disputes. It was a major reaction, a serious reaction to the public, as the executive authority can influence courts, as one ministry can recommend to the courts how to judge. It can't be, we're independent, we're this and that. So how is it possible, in the meantime, in secret, in silence, to do something like this? This is your direct involvement by the executive authority in the work of the courts. If we are in favour of all these principles, and it seems to me that we are all in favour, and the Government, by its reasoning of the judicial laws, has pointed out this, then I see no reason why it would change the essence of the positive rules and why it affects the work of the courts. I therefore expect us to address one problem of judicial independence and the influence of the executive authority in the work of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17578	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? (Yes) Marina Ragush, and Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17579	Mr. Chairman, thank you. You gave me great cream for what I wanted to ask. First, who are we talking to here? Where are the government representatives? Where are the representatives of the resolution ministry? This is a very important topic for us to address each other, and since they are not here, it speaks enough about the relationship between the completely alienated power of Parliament. So the people in Serbia need to know what the situation in the judiciary is, how judicial decisions are made. It should also know that what we can find, as the previous colleague said, is that, to the greatest extent, there is pressure by the executive authority on judicial decisions, that we are now discussing something that we have no idea why certain people are leaving certain judicial or prosecutorial duties. We do not have the accompanying material that would introduce us to the reason why people are forced to leave a certain duty, and we know, since we regularly talk to courts, that they are doing such an important and responsible job, which, you will all agree, affects the daily life and fate of all people who have had opportunities, and almost all have had opportunities, to face the courts in Serbia. What can be concluded on the basis of the finding of truly honorable people belonging to this area is that they cannot withstand pressure and pressure, most often by certain people who are owned to intervene in the process of making court decisions, but again, I am going to apostrophe, there is no representative of the resolution ministry here who would answer our specific questions. We will continue to deal with concrete examples, which will be evidence of the direct influence of the executive authority on the judicial decision-making process. We will also present an example of a retired colonel, which we spoke of several months ago, where there is even a decision by the Supreme Court of Serbia, which the executive authority absolutely ignores. It is a state in Serbia where there is no clear division between the three branches of government. Then, too, the people in Serbia should know that only if it has good connections with the representatives of the regime, firstly, with Mr Tadic, will they be able to make judicial decisions in favour of them. I'm not talking about those honorable exceptions that have persisted in performing their judicial or prosecutorial action, but the question is whether they will remain in their seats, given that they are expected to have true lustration. What we promise to the Serbian public, to all these honorable people, is to closely monitor the process of appointment announced, in order to determine whether such an important branch of government is far from politics. We say it's not, we have concrete evidence of it, and we're going to present it. It's outrageous that we didn't get any supporting material for this part of the agenda. So much for the relationship to such a serious topic of the ruling coalition. The public in Serbia needs to know that. What is significant, we think, that we are doing this to a good extent, is whether the state of Serbia is in the power to decide on anything independently, or to decide independently in the judicial area. We will again prove that it is not, for example, in the context of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in the context of conducting investigations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, where is Serbia's judiciary present, say, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? So, we expected Mrs. Malovic to give us details of the talks with De Kermabon, the head of the Eulex mission. We were also expecting them to give us answers on who authorized her to negotiate with the Eulex mission and what was it really about? Do we accept this as a completely illegal and illegal mission by Eulex on a sovereign part of the territory, such as KIM? Here, we were ready to listen to Mrs Malovic's arguments, not just to rely on writing in the press and on statements that the government brings and publishes on its website. Maybe some of us don't want to establish a government website. They want to see government representatives here, because of the public in Serbia, which only 30% of cases can use Internet services. Unfortunately, the Serbian public should know – this is what the picture of Parliament looks like when we talk about judicial and prosecutorial duties, and thus the state of justice, because there is no government representative. I'd just take this many minutes, and then I'd use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17580	Thank you. There is a word from MP Mr Miroslav Petkovic, the authorised representative of the DSS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17581	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I am not in a position to welcome the representatives of the Justice Ministry, although they were in this session today. Unless the promoters were authorized when the first Council of Justice was elected, they were to be present today. I think this topic is suitable for some issues to be opened in this higher home and to discuss the situation in the Serbian judiciary. It is known that a few days ago we had a choice of VSS's first summons. Unfortunately, that consummation isn't complete. I remind the MPs that no representative of the bar has been elected. We still haven't received an explanation from the ruling coalition why no one has been elected from the candidates, who meet all the conditions. Law school representatives also gave their candidates – none of them were elected, and we expect a representative of municipal courts to be elected in due time, since the proposal arrived at the National Assembly. It is interesting, but obviously we will not get an answer from the Minister of Justice today, nor from the Secretary of State, Mr Homen, who, on 18 February 2008, said that the system in Serbia, with appeals courts, with the Supreme Cassation Court and with all those accompanying courts that are provided for in our legislation, has started to operate since 1 January 2009. We understand that in 2008, because of the elections and all the other problems we've had, it couldn't begin to work, but now it's the end of April. I'm interested in how will the judicial system function from 1 January 2010? What I'm being shown and what's realistic about happening at this point is that they're turning and glassy rooms where they're supposed to be doing appeals courts, and from the beginning of the operation of the process in those courts, I'm sure there's nothing. In our debate on the set of judicial laws, as the DSS Parliamentary Group, we have made our position clear – that, unfortunately, this is not our wish, but because of the short time and because of the inability of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, these laws will not be applicable from 1 January. We're sure to discuss these laws again at the end of the year and move it over to some point. Whether it'll be six months, or a year, we'll see. Then no one believed us, here, the end of April shows that we were absolutely right. Also, I would like to remind, above all, Serbian citizens that the ruling majority has abolished 104 courts in the Republic of Serbia since 1 January. This will lead to further problems in the functioning of the entire system and in the availability of justice in many of our cities, many of our municipalities, many of our areas, especially in other parts of the Republic of Serbia – will be left without courts, and some judicial units that will not be able to respond to specific problems and demands of citizens, which due to the distance, which due to the weather conditions they can be during the winter period. We've been pointing that out. I repeat, we are not pleased that the representatives of the judiciary will face enormous problems. We're sure there'll be a change of laws very soon. It's alarming, in addition to the difficult conditions in which the judges work, that we've been having bombs thrown at the judges lately. The system of protection of judges and their families and judicial buildings, apparently, has not been improved since Mr Petrovic, who promised this when that tragic event took place in Knjižvac last year. We also had an unfavorable event some time ago. It's not enough that when a bomb is tipped off, it only prevents it from emptying the courthouses. These people do a responsible job and have to be protected in their workplace, but also in their housing units and anywhere to move, so that they can do this job independently, honestly and honestly. How much independently they do their work, or how much pressure there is from the executive authority, specifically, in this case, by the Ministry of Economy, by a state official in that ministry, and I cannot accept that the competent Mr Dinkic does not know what the State Secretarys are doing to him, we have had the opportunity to make sure when anti-constitutional, illegal and extremely rude pressure on the judiciary in Serbia – when the proposed freezing of labour disputes and halting judicial decisions and executions for thousands of workers who have exercised their right in court proceedings and decisions have become legal. Fortunately, the Serbian judiciary had the strength at that time to resist such pressures, and I hope, first and foremost, that the ruling coalition's parties will see the judiciary branch as an independent branch of government. There is a huge problem, and we will also not get that answer today, because the minister, or Mrs Malovic, is not present – the situation at KIM, where Eulex is fully taking over the processes from the Serbian judiciary; according to the false laws of the false state, some false courts should exercise justice in the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, seven MPs, members of the Justice Committee, requested an emergency session of the Justice Committee, and predicted that the session would take place today, where the minister would provide us with information on the situation and on the functioning of the Serbian judiciary in the area of KIM. Obviously, that session isn't scheduled. The deadline may have been short, but we expect that in due course, already next week, we have the opportunity to hear all the necessary information from Mrs Malovic. Indeed, we cannot, at least from the DSS, be silent to observe, in silence, that Eulex is taking all the powers of our judicial authorities and slowly dragging Serbian judges into his system. This is inadmissible, according to the Constitution, and according to all the laws, according to resolutions adopted by the National Assembly, according to the Government of Serbia's Action Plan, Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia, and the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia must function in that area. If someone is not ready, he is not able and must not admit that he is unable to prevent this, let them say so immediately, and resign and leave the cabinet of the incompetent and irresponsible governments. There are people who know how to deal with this problem, which will rightly address it as predicted, above all, the highest act of this country, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is obliged to respect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, it also applies to the minister of justice in this country. Thank you. I'll use the rest of the time something later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17582	Thank you. The speaker, chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Bosko Ristic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17583	Given that it has been mentioned that there is an initiative by seven MPs to schedule a session of the Justice and Management Committee, I must inform all those present that the session is scheduled for next Thursday, at 11 o'clock. Since the motion to convene this session of the Committee came to me an hour ago, and I was up to an hour ago at the first session of the High Council of Justice, where working groups were formed to determine the number of necessary judges in the courts, in order to prepare a call for competitions for the selection of judges in the highest courts, it is also one brief information. I have respected the proposal of the Members of Parliament and the Honorable Vice-President of the Committee on Justice and Administration. It was not possible to organise the Justice Minister's presence by 15 hours today and provide documentation on the basis of which it would provide information on the subject. By the next session of the Committee, I expect that the representatives of the Justice Ministry will provide information on the asked question, so that we can discuss the situation competently.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17584	I thank Mr. Ristic for this information. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) In agreement with the Rules of Procedure, until the start of the principled search, MPs of DSS, SRS and LDP groups applied for the word. The word is made by MP Slobodan Samardzic, DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17585	Dear People's MPs, the President-in-Office, on this agenda point, I wanted to draw attention to the MPs and citizens of Serbia for a quiet and illegal process of resolving judges and prosecutors in Serbia. A few days ago, the KIM Assembly of Communities issued a statement of pressures that representatives of the Justice Ministry and of some other ministries are doing to judges and prosecutors at KIM, above all, in Mitrovica, to join, practically, the Albanian judiciary. The government has denied this statement, but in that denial, we have not seen any serious fact that the denials would be very convincing. That's the thing that's for the alarm when it comes to our judiciary, and we need to talk about it in the Assembly. First of all, I would draw your attention to the fact that the judges and prosecutors who were detained or arrested last March 17th 2008 by UNMIK police and KFOR and taken to jail. These are the judges and prosecutors who strike in the Mitrovica Court building for a few days, looking for their jobs they had the right to do. At the time, a special representative of the secretary general and his deputy gave orders one morning, March 17th last year, to attack these people. They brutally tied them all up and transferred the buses to Pristina. You remember, probably, that in 10 minutes, at least five-six thousand citizens of Kosovo Mitrovica came out to defend judges, that it was an unpleasant event, that there was the use of firearms and many injured, where a Ukrainian police officer died, several Romanians were injured more strongly, etc. I mention these events more than a year ago because the same judges are now being repressed by the Serbian government and by the relevant ministries. In fact, we're going to check out these allegations and statements of the Community Assembly and we're going to determine exactly what it was, who was coming, who was where he was, who he was doing, and what judges he was pressuring, etc., for what, what they should do, where to do, and where to hire and all that. So it will be on the Justice Committee to discuss it. I'm glad we found out today there's going to be a meeting next Thursday at 11:00, as this house will have to discuss. On that occasion, someone will have to be here from the Justice Ministry, perhaps the minister himself, Mrs. Malovic. So, in one part of our judiciary, we have a big problem. It is no longer a problem that Albanians insist that the part of the judiciary enters their system, which has already been made, and it is not only that the representatives of Eulex, who have a supervisory post over the Kosovo judiciary today, are looking for the same thing, the problem is that the Serbian government and its respective ministry co-operate. There's a problem. I will briefly try to reconstruct the basis on which the Serbian government's policy is based when it comes to our KIM judiciary, which is those famous six points, or a six-point plan, where one is committed to the judiciary. Whoever does not believe, please look at this report by Ban Ki Moon on 24 November last year, points 39, 40 and 41 state what the basics of such a solution are. The first point of these, concerning the judiciary, which our government has accepted as a starting point for the talks, is that KIM, or Kosovo, is building a coherent judicial system. The second point says -- UNMIK will also make the choice of judges for the Mitrovica Court, which should be opened and will act for a certain period of time. The point is that since the court opened in Mitrovica, with Serbian judges and prosecutors, it will last 60 days. So it will be a short transition period, after which this court and these judges and prosecutors will have to enter Kosovo's judicial system. Finally, a third of those points say UNMIK will insist on the ethnic proportionality of judges on a territorial basis. So we already have a framework here that our government has agreed to become an integral, integrated part of the Albanian judiciary at KIM in no time. That's why we're putting pressure on these judges and prosecutors, so three judges and eight prosecutors who should get into this system as soon as possible. We need to talk about it in the congregation. It is part of Serbia's judiciary, a comprehensive system, but part of the territorial timetable for Serbia's judiciary, where KIM, according to our positive laws, belongs to Serbia. Whether we quietly and illegally, as it was started the other day, simply handing these people over to the Albanian judiciary or not, depends on what they will do when they open the right conversation on this subject. This is just the beginning. I appreciate the opportunity to say something about it. I propose and suggest that this matter in Serbia, in the Committee on Justice and in this assembly will be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17586	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, and then Marina Ragus from the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17587	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have defined the main problem of the Serbian judiciary within half an hour, and the main problem of the Serbian judiciary is, apparently, the lack of independence of the work of the courts. In half an hour, we have concreteized, listed two regulations that the executive power directly tries, or affects the work of the courts. How many regulations we don't know about? Our congregation pays dearly the public of its work. The transparency of the work of this assembly has led to the situation that there is no morning in which some headline in the press releases about how MPs are grammistic, how MPs are lazy, how MPs are like this and how Parliament does not do its job. I underline, Parliament's work is transparent. Whatever we do, whatever we say in this room, everything is being transmitted and all of it can be learned by the citizens and can make an insight into Parliament's work. The problem, however, is that the other institutions are not transparent. You can think of what the public would look like to the work of the government, what the public would look like to any college of higher education institutions, hospitals or the like, what if meetings were recorded in various institutions, what we would hear and what we would find out. Transparency is a very important principle of democracy, as this public gain control over the work of the institutions and the work of those people who represent them and who are chosen by the same citizens. Therefore, both the court and the judges are expected to do their job, that if they have problems with the influence of the executive authority on their work, reporting and public protection cases, they are expected to seek protection, in the extreme case, and this Parliament, whose influence the judiciary is so afraid of. What happens if the court shuts up, or simply doesn't react to the fact that a decision has been made because of the influence of the executive authority? We are in a situation of one general legal uncertainty. What do these legal persons who are now unable to take possession of their property acquired by legal work, legal work that is absolutely in accordance with all our laws and constitution, which is approved by the same executive authority, by the Ministry of Justice, by the Ministry of Finance, and, moreover, the National Bank gave its consent when it allowed the opening of the non-resident account? Whom can those legal and physical persons turn to and claim their right if they cannot exercise their right and justice wherever they ask for it, and these are the courts? They can only address the Privatisation Committee at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Justice and Management at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What, again, can we do on these committees? Should we make recommendations, suggest? If this country respects the law, if something goes against the Constitution, and ministers do it, because of the government, we don't know for what reasons, then we really have a big problem. Otherwise, just to inform you that the Privatisation Committee has made its recommendation to apply the laws, to be respected in a specific case – "Borovo-Borelli", in particular in the case of buyers of these properties from "Borov". So, the Committee of the Assembly did its part of the job. I expect the Justice Committee will do the same. If the Assembly, obviously today on the pillar of shame in this country, has done its job, if we at the plenary session are discussing this illegal operation of the executive government, with its influence on the courts, then why not do their job and those who keep pointing out that there is a need for absolute division of power, judicial, executive and legislative? So, once again, I point out that I expect laws to be implemented, that citizens do not come to an absolute obstacle, to a wall, when they no longer know which institution to turn to, and we seem to be the last institution that these legal persons could turn to. They turned to us because we are indeed the only transparent institution in the Republic of Serbia. I'm undermining again, we're paying for that transparency, because it's known exactly, at any point, what's going on in the O.R., who's discussing, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, is someone working, is someone not working? All newspapers and all media have the right to access information on how much MPs earn, how much they take on behalf of the daily and everything else regarding the work of MPs. If so, then this assembly has the right to present and tell the citizens – yes, we are, we are, we are voting these laws, and previously we are discussing them, we are giving amendments, so we are trying to fix and regulate legal life in Serbia, but we expect other branches of government to do the same. We also expect from courts, we expect from the government, and we certainly don't expect some of the regulations that are just being passed, who knows for what reasons and for what interests, who has lobbyed here, who hasn't lobbyed. In particular, the man who was advisor to former Minister Bubalo is now an adviser to the prime minister. If this adviser has the power to isolate the adoption of a regulation on 27 November last year, a regulation that negatively affects Serbia's legal life, then the question is really whether we are a legal state, whether we need a parliament, whether we need a government, ultimately, and courts, because if individuals have such power and can realise these ideas, then we don't need any of these institutions. We therefore expect everyone to do their job, as does Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17588	Thank you. The last on the list is the MP Marina Ragush. Your remaining time is 82 minutes and 49 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17589	I just want you to tell me how much time I have in total. (President: 68 plus 14.) So what I'm going to bring out at the beginning of this part of the SRS Group here was to be spoken by Mr Krasic and Mrs Verica Radeta. I hope to present my two colleagues in a decent and decent manner. To replace them, I don't have the illusion that I can, because it's about colleagues with exceptional legal and parliamentary experience, so in my case it would be an almost impossible mission, but the public in Serbia must not be denied for everything that is currently in the judiciary in Serbia. It is that today is the Big Thursday for all Orthodox Christians and, of course, Orthodox Christians await the arrival of one of the most important holidays, so we really want them peace, reconciliation and joy this occasion. I hope we don't put in any more unrest, but the truth should be also the ultimate Christian virtue, and we are trying, as representatives of the opposition, to determine what is, in fact, a differential diagnosis of the situation in Serbia, if I were to give myself the freedom to express myself in the medical dictionary. What it definitely says is that the state of Serbia does not exercise its prerogatives of statehood, therefore, that it does not exist in the part of the KiM, is an illegal and illegal mission of Eulex, established outside all legal frameworks in the sovereign part of Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbia does not exist. That's a fact. The public in Serbia knows that the SRS MP group, whenever a proposal for certain legal solutions is on the agenda, has the custom of asking whether the law will be applicable on KIM territory. So far, we've received no answers. We would ask the government's representative this time, but unfortunately Mrs Malovic, the minister of justice, is not present. From what we've heard, Mr. Ristic has failed to secure her presence. Under normal circumstances, the debate on this agenda item should be postponed for the moment when conditions are secured, but given that such a situation is, it may not be bad to see the government's attitude towards Parliament. What we wanted to set up and problem, rightly, is the conversation that has been published in the media, which we, as MPs, know nothing about, we don't even have a chance to find out, the Serbian Justice Minister's conversation with the head of the Eulex mission. Or perhaps we should start with a statement by Serbian President Mr Tadic, which denied all marketing moves in terms of preserving Serbia's integrity and sovereignty, only with one sentence published in "Politica", on 7 April 2009, in a text entitled "Eulex Full Force". "From Eulexes, they say they have good co-operation, both with Kosovo institutions and with official Belgrade. Serbian President Boris Tadic sent a letter in December welcoming the deployment of Eulex in Kosovo's entire territory. A recent mission delegation was in Belgrade, where important issues related to regional co-operation were discussed, especially in the area of fighting organised crime. ''It is not clear how Mr Tadic, as president of Serbia, really thinks he can explain to the people, let's say, another of his team's marketing moves, how he will manage to get close to the EU and preserve the integrity of KIM. In the territory of KIM, we have a completely unlawful mission of rule of law, Eulex, with which Mr Tadic communicates and has a correspondence without us knowing it. We expected to find out and come up with a concrete answer to the question of who lies in the state of Serbia. That answer, obviously, we won't get it. It is very likely that the tectonic disorder on the political scene of Serbia has arisen precisely because of this, due to the protectorate under which the state of Serbia is. That's what the actual situation in KIM territory is about. Let me remind you, the May elections were called precisely because of the disseminating on the subject of KIM. The fact was then that the SAA should be, in practice, recognition of KIM's independence by the Serbian state, because marketing is assessed as a very bad move and a very bad setting for Serbia, or the regime in Serbia, to do so publicly. The next move was the implementation of the Eulex mission, outside the Security Council, outside of Resolution 1244, so we understand it as illegal, illegal and illegal. The next phase of the completion of the Kosovo issue, therefore, of the independence of KIM, which Washington and Brussels say is a non-refundable process, is what we had the opportunity to hear at the Security Council session, held on March 23rd, that Kosovo is independent, the British and Americans say, and that is a fact that is irreversible. So status is no longer being discussed. We also hear it, but by writing that Mr. Tadic welcomes the deployment of the very Eulex mission on KIM territory. Unfortunately, we will not be able to talk to Mrs Malovic about the details of the talks, let's say, with the head of Mission, De Kermabon, and our sincere wish was to know details of the talks, because we encountered a request from the KIM Community Assembly seeking the shift of Snezana Malovic due to pressure on Serbian judges in Kosovo Mitrovica to enter the court of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. We know that the government, after a statement by the KIM Community, reacted very sharply, by calling even people representing the Community Assembly professional patriots, which we think is completely politically incorrect and inappropriate. Just because the president of Serbia is, in fact, denying the essence of the move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of maintaining territorial sovereignty and integrity, it is only a marketing trick so that Serbs do not realize that the government accepts, de facto, the independence of KIM, because the mentors of Boris Tadic's regime, therefore, the US and Brussels administration, have decided. However, we will not be able to resolve this dilemma. We learn from the media that there were negotiations on the subject and that De Kermabon, the head of the rule of law mission Eulex, talked about this kind of co-operation, but we look forward to the moment when we can, say, hear the answers to questions about how the Court of Justice of Eulex, say, in a second-degree procedure, freed Flyorima Eupia, who was previously sentenced to 40 years in prison by the attack on the Nis Express bus, when 12 Serbs died and more injured. We would like to hear from Mrs Malovic, I look forward to the moment when she will appear, in which way the state of Serbia responded to such a precedent, especially the even more brutal response that on the basis of the evidence set, only such a decision could be made. It is very likely that we should remind you what the attack on the Nis Express bus meant for, conditionally speaking, the families of those dead people. Eulex has sent us a very clear message, a very clear signal of what they actually think of us, how they want to behave and intend to stay there. So everything that Boris Tadic's regime is trying to spin through media campaigns has been denied in the public with concrete examples, which we are going to make here, because it is a situation to talk about the situation in the judiciary and what we can all expect from Serbia's judicial system. What has also startled us, and I like to talk about concrete examples, is, among other things, an unusual decision that the public needs to know about. For example, City Council Nisa has decided that candidates for public functions, the mayors of city administrations, can be candidates under investigation. What is startling is a complete derrogation of what is supposed to be performing responsible functions in the country, but they are replacing topics, so they are MPs on the list of the most negative people, who obviously open topics that do not like those who manage the media, i.e. Boris Tadic regime. Also, we have a situation where NGOs, in particular, think of Mrs. Natasa Kandic, directly affect the work of the judicial authorities with their presence, statements in the media, so they have caused terrible protests in Leskovac over the arrest of some of the 37th squad of special units of police. This is a direct consequence, we can safely argue, that we will prove in the rest of the section foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, the verdicts to the highest Serbian state, police and military summit in The Hague, which, the system of joint courts, will try to prove the justification of a completely illegal mission of EULEX in the territory of the KIM. That's the point. The point is, right now, to collectively condemn a nation and justify the existence of an occupation of a part of the territory by the Washington and Brussels administration. It seems to me that the public in Serbia, that's what recent polls show, is hardly a dilemma that that's exactly what it's all about. Not the Serbs here the problem is Russia, approaching Russia, a geostrategic point that must be controlled by the second largest base, the American base, in the world, like Bondsteel. We expected to receive a report from Mrs Malovic related to Bondsteel, given that, on the basis of the report by the Council of Europe, the Commissioner for Human Rights, it was observed that at one point in Bondsteel, a device that is identical to the devices in the famous CIA prison in Guantanamo Bej, that people who were taken to Bondsteel were, in fact, abducted and kidnapped, that certain tests were carried out there and that, during the Mission of the Council of Europe, certain Serbs and certain Albanians were seen there. We expected to get a report on the subject, but unfortunately, we won't get it. What the SRS will require of Mrs Malovic is all these official reports. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that we will demand the public hearing, for example, of the 37th squad of special units of police, for one simple reason, because the Serbian judiciary is introducing an institute which we, as members of the defence team of Dr Vojislav Seselj, are very well known from Hague practice, which is insiders. It would be very interesting to hear how it approaches the insiders, who are these people who should condemn those who have done only what their duty had to do, at one point concrete aggression and the concrete action of the Cypriot terrorists on the innocent Serb and non-Serb population in KIM territory. Why are we talking about this? As a team, we met with the UN tribunal's work methodology, which is very interesting in the context of an independent judiciary on the territory of the Serbian state. Since I like to talk about concrete sources, in this regard, sources close to the ruling regime, or at least the sources they've known for DOS intelligence, I'm also going to get to know the public with a statement that Mr. Zoran Mijatovic made, I think this is even exclusive, given to the defence team Dr. Vojislav Seselj. It is about Deputy Goran Petrovic, head of Resor DB, a man who was considered to be a close DOS man, just because he was deputy chief Resor in 2003. I think the interior minister was then Dusan Petrovic. Zoran Mijatovic, who was on trial with Dr Vojislav Seselj years later, made a statement to the defence team Dr Vojislav Seselj and I think it would be good to see The Hague, or The Hague tribunal, operating on the territory of the Serbian state. The statement was issued on 12 April 2007, approved at the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, with the number 2858/2007. This is what I'm saying, because I want everything to be transparent and verifiable. It reflects the state of the institutions, in which we live and determines the fact that the state of Serbia can defil anyone who wants to, who represents the most developed intelligence structures of Western European democracies. Here we will see that the British Intelligence Service is involved and that it is involved in events that paint everyday life in the territory of the Serbian state, but also in the statement of someone who is in power to talk about it, here's how. Zoran Mijatovic said in his statement – we quickly saw that The Hague tribunal is leading its policy, that it does not want to have a normal partnership with state authorities. And that's what we wanted to ask Mrs Malovic, what is the two-way co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Also, Mr. Mijatovic says – we have seen what the Hague office is interested in. It was directed to people from BiH, Republika Srpska, with an accent on Martic. They had some information at the time that Martic was in Serbia and was heading towards him. Another feature is that through the NGO sector, the Hague office is presented as if it exists and works, and that we are the ones who should help them. We soon saw people coming and offering services in The Hague. We find out that many people are getting rich from that moment on. "So much for insiders. Many people brought various documents to The Hague at that time. I don't know how much it cost, but I do know that there are data on who these people are. We didn't know if it was a photo, a tape, or a phonogram. We didn't know exactly what was going on, but we knew what was going on. '"The defense team Dr. Vojislav Seselj knows what it is and we'll talk about it when the time really comes. We hope, there will be enough issues to get the Serbian public to know how the people of Serbia are acquainted and how certain actions will be conducted before the Special Court of War Crimes. Mr. Mijatovic says – I will be directed to what The Hague is doing by 1998. "They do it under the grain. They have some ways of working. Those state organs are bluffing. Why? I won't know that in 1996, but at the end of 1997, we get it. These are, by the way, the years of the biggest conflict between Mr Mijatovic and Dr Vojislav Seselj. Among other things, the topic was The Hague and what was then meant to be Serbia's ominous future, and unfortunately, became the present, and Dr Vojislav Seselj argued. So, they don't want to contact the state authorities, says Mr. Mijatovic, because they think we're part of that apparatus, because how he contacts me when this Hague is probably expecting me today-to-morrow in a chair. ''So, among other things, Sreten Lukic found himself in The Hague, Mr Pavkovic found himself in The Hague, so Mr Perisic ended up in The Hague, so in The Hague, some The Hague, as a political instrument of architects of some new order of the world, to find, perhaps, someone from the ruling, current coalition. It'll show in 2002 that what I'm saying wasn't far from the truth. It wasn't until 1997 that we saw it. We see that the institutions of the Serbian state fail. ''We really needed Mrs. Malovic to be there, because we expect an official reaction from the Justice Ministry. This statement should be the beginning of certain actions. If the state of Serbia were a normal state that holds itself rather than a protectorate, it would have had to react after a statement by someone who was acting as deputy chief of the Resor DB. Furthermore, ''we see and insist, Goran Petrovic, the head of the Resor of the Republic of Serbia and I, that no one can behave like that and we told Minister Mihajlovic that spies work here as yellow ants. ''I'm really glad Mr. Mijatovic got the courage to write this. A good part of what is in the statement and what has entered the file of Dr Vojislav Seselj in front of The Hague tribunal is in the book "Opelo for State Secret". The most important part, which I would like to introduce to everyone, and especially to the Serbian public, concerns the British Intelligence Service. Mr. Mijatovic, in a statement to the defence team, says -- the British intelligence service is a key service, which, in practice, should prepare people for The Hague tribunal. ''In 2002, the British Intelligence Service is, as I would like to tell you, the logistics of the UN tribunal, as the logistics of people, but very dangerous logistics. What I've been able to find out these years, even in recent years, all those people who are in The Hague are thin about investigative activities, police stores. The British combined, so a double agent is used. A number of games we had, for example, with the British service, will practically open a certain Ratomir Tanic, most likely all of you know. Through Tanic, the English service describes future insiders for The Hague. They bring them to Vienna, where the job ends. They've got my eye on me, too. So, in 2002, the English intelligence service, through these co-workers, typed people and, in various ways, dragged them to Vienna. They're your real potential insiders. One part of these people will contact here, first of all, the officers of the Yugoslav Army, which startled me, for some, it's not, because I know what people are like. It's been determined here in Belgrade, with officers, mostly, that the contact was in Budapest. Why, I do not know. I know who went. There were police officers. Some of them have agreed here as well. Some were courting, some were afraid, but today, tomorrow, you'll all come in turn. ''These are the words of Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, and now we need to talk about justice and institutions in the state of Serbia. In 2002, I quote Mr. Mijatovic, "the year when the top-ranking people in the police are preparing to give interviews to The Hague's office. Tanic was our associate. Mihajlovic met with him in Paris in 2001. '' Paris is, by the way, a very important place for many from the political scene of Serbia, especially the Hotel "Ric" restaurant in Paris. The tycoons, presidents of some neighbouring countries, can be found there, but we'll talk about it at another time, and we'll see how political scenes are formed and political decisions are made in the state of Serbia. However, to continue where Zoran Mijatovic stopped: ''The service was informed of all these meetings, due to a very wide network of its operatives. The state of Serbia has data on this. This is 2002. The Hague investigators, until I wrote the book, didn't know I recorded all the details of the conversation. Jeffrey Nuys, too. It's all on tape. '"Now he's talking about the very process of taking statements. It's all happening in the state of Serbia. That's the man two governments freed from keeping state secrets. Mr. Mijatovic says: “There are three coming, so two investigators and an interpreter are coming. This guy's name is Michael Stepanovic, the other one's Fulton. I've known Fulton since I had official co-operation with The Hague. He's coming with someone. It's an Irishman. This is the man who got into these" – this is important for today's topic – "legal intellectual circles, he went on rafts with prosecutors, he paid. I knew it all in 2001, and I knew who I was dealing with. So they brought him here to stay with me, and that Australian." The statement counts dozens of pages. I will read only certain parts, to finally, very clearly, without any reservation, paint the state of Serbia and the government's attitude towards all of this. In those three days of taking a statement from Mr. Mijatovic, the real fight was for the record, everyone who came, there was even Jeffrey Najs to take a statement from him, they were going through the insinuations, there were all the wrong things in the record, but they weren't aware of any moment that the exaggerated operative was recording it all. Based on the overall course of taking a statement from Mr. Mijatovic, the book "Opelo for State Secret" was created. The "Secretary of State" may also be an introduction to the fertilization of the Serbian state itself, which allows something like this. Mr. Mijatovic and Mr. Petrovic warned Dusan Mihajlovic that members of foreign intelligence services are running Serbia. There was no reaction to that subject. Let me remind you, it was a similar situation when a bomb was dropped on the offices at the Eulex premises on KIM territory. At that time, two members of the German Federal Intelligence Service, who were not reported to our MUP as members of the intelligence service, were arrested. They were registered as employees of a company. Their arrest was ordered by another intelligence service, as the current angry war on drug trafficking in the KIM territory, which is an electoral economic activity in the Shiptar plant, based on Serbian blood. Let's move on. It describes the circumstances under which the statement was taken. He says: "At 15 to 10, I'm called Mihov, otherwise, the head of The Hague's office here, and he says – Mr. Mijatovic, he happens to be Jeffrey Najs here in Belgrade. I knew it wasn't an accident, I was a cop, so I always know when he got here. Not now, like, they're writing a newspaper, and I know when they don't write, like, accidentally he came and, like, Jeffrey read the record from the day before, and he would like to meet me terribly. “ This is all happening in his apartment. "Jeffrey Najs," says Mijatovic, "is in my apartment on July 20th 2002, at 10.20, or later, and tells me – I don't know if you know what your rules are. I say - I know absolutely well, you have no reason. No, no, that he will teach me, he says, "You know, when we evaluate it all, and you're like that, you and that, we can, when we judge it, you can, like, decide to come alone, be a witness. But when we assess, then, we force you." What is a very significant part, and first of all, of Dr Vojislav Seselj's departure to The Hague, in the book "Sacred for Serbia", also writes Mr. Mijatovic, and I happen to know that he is preparing to write the third book. In a work dealing with the phenomenon of Seselj, Seselj was involved in Clinton's administration, but mostly DOS leaders, and Mr Dusan Mihaylov took great care of it. Carla del Ponte in her book says that Mr Djindjic recommended that they lead Seselj and not return him. In 2003, a fully-defined indictment against the president of the SRS is being filed, as he went to over a million votes in the elections. Of course, the logical consequence of all that was, when Dr. Vojislav Seselj was fully aware of the indictment, that he simply did not want to burden his people with further pressures from the most powerful forces of the world. He voluntarily went to The Hague, in which he is located for six years, on the basis of a false indictment prepared by political opponents and on the basis of insiders, and now you will hear the insiders preparing for the Seselj case. You should know that everyone worked for the case – Prosecutor's Office against Slobodan Milosevic and that it was used in all other cases. Among other things, Zoran Mijatovic says: "... that I tied Seselj to murders, warrants, encouragement, under his influence, only one word was missing, one word in my story, which was insisted on by those who were trying to draw a statement from him, and to ensure, as Mr. Mijatovic says, "protection, money... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Here, in his statement to the defense team, Dr Vojislav Seselj says: "Somebody might, I won't. The choice of land for me and my family was only a matter of agreement, where I would, what I would do, and how I would do it. So they provide protection for both me and the family in the country we choose. “ This is the way insiders go. That is why the SRS will seek the public in proceedings before the Belgrade Special Court of War Crimes, which is very likely to be led against other members of the military and police, those remaining patriotic forces. Among other things, Mr. Mijatovic said in his statement: "My book "Opelo for State Secret", among other things, is a revolt because of the prosecution's handling of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia against me, because they wanted to press and blackmail to achieve their goal, to win witnesses for false testimony, to win me over as a witness at any price; there was only a question of what I would agree to. Just to say, a million or two or I don't know what, more or less, it doesn't matter if I choose a country where I want to live with my family. Their intentions about whether I would testify against Milosevic, Seselj, I didn't know. I will eventually, from a full conversation, figure out what the main elements are, when it comes to witnessing." To repeat, this statement was given to the defence team Zoran Mijatovic, in Belgrade on 12 April 2007, overa number 2858/2007, and this is because of all those who are very likely to follow this part of the exhibition due to their official duty. The intention of the SRS, as you can see, now to discover to the end, is a projection of how Boris Tadic imagines an opposition in parliament. Here, one single MP remains and the only MP, in the perspective of ending Serbia's political scene, with no reserve and no rest, will very clearly say every name for which he has enough evidence, beyond the reasonable doubt found to be working to harm Serbia's national interests. What we expect is a concrete response from the Serbian state and we would like Mrs Malovic to be there, so if we ask her – what exactly will the state of Serbia do about a statement issued by former Deputy Chief of State Security Resor during the DOS period? This statement suggests that we do not have an independent judiciary, that we do not have an independent single institution, that here, members of intelligence services are taking us away from people who will falsely testify against certain people suspected of the most difficult acts in front of The Hague or any other tribunal and that this practice is now returning to the state of Serbia and will likely take place before the Special Court of War Crimes. That's what we expect in the shortest possible time to hear as an official response. Also, since another procedure is being conducted against Dr Vojislav Seselj – to disrespect the Court, we are in a completely rational blockade of how to understand Mr Ljajic's reaction and this two-way co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which said that at no time did the UN tribunal send a request to ensure the safety of potential witnesses of the prosecution. On the other hand, The Hague tribunal claims there was intimidation. We expect, on behalf of the entire Serbian public, who has lived in these areas all the time and died in one way or another, on behalf of all those families of police officers, soldiers, volunteers, to give an official response to this complete destruction of all the legal principles and what should be the rule of law. So, this is not just about the SRS, I am directly referring here to sources that were closest to the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, or to some of the DOS. Another example, which we have begun a kind of campaign to protect the fundamental rights of all citizens of the Serbian state, because they cannot do so before the institutions, is that I am also almost out of proper terminology, and I am trying to be polite, therefore, totally disrespecting judicial decisions by the executive authority. It's about Lieutenant Colonel Zlatan Mancic. Serbia's Supreme Court abolished two decisions by military courts in Nis and brought the procedure back to fruition. Based on the verdicts of these military courts, which were abolished by the Serbian Supreme Court's decision, the man was stripped of the act and it automatically meant that he would cease to carry out professional activity. The defence ministry, therefore, has simply given a completely illegal and illegal interpretation of Serbia's Supreme Court ruling. When we asked the question, they gave us some conclusion that said, "No, we don't see it that way, we will continue to maintain this condition, so we will see how it will go further." The sweetest thing in the whole situation, we even got information that Zlatan Mancic is a retired colonel without that man ever getting a pension solution. That man hasn't been able to feed his family in years. That man is a man of a very poor mental state. These are all images of the existence and work of institutions in Serbia, especially relations between authorities. If it wasn't just the situation with us, you'd testify to the next example. As you can see, we have a branched network, as well as cooperation with many people and institutions around the world, trying to come up with concrete evidence of the introduction and implementation of a protectorate, or what is called the end of borders and the world in the interest of implementing the national interests of the Washington and Brussels administration. This here is, in fact, the file of a Croatian general, and this is about General Gotovina, whom we absolutely have no reason to defend, nor mention, except in the context of something very important to us. So, at the moment he was arrested in one country, Gotovina realized that the current Croatian government, collecting points from the Brussels administration, launched a procedure that was contrary to an agreement between Gotovina and the current government in Croatia. We wouldn't get involved in that, of course. What's significant here? From that moment on, his network released all the data that mattered to us, which tells us, let's say, that The Hague tribunal is, that those behind The Hague tribunal are very decadent in the conduct of the occupation of the entire world, and so are they. Among other things, there's a document called the British at work. The story is – when Mr. Jeffrey Langley came in, he was then head of the British MI-6 branch in Croatia, he gave some suggestions for improving intelligence co-operation, which was, in fact, bringing in the justice of those people that The Hague was looking for, that is, for which the great forces estimated that they should be found before The Hague tribunal. It's a nine-point document with which Mr. Gotovina's network made an effort to get out in public. Why am I saying this? Because you will see that there is almost an incredible resemblance to the situation in Belgrade and Serbia. So, that moment it started to be said, as related to Operation "Hate 29," about the anti-Hazard lobby, that moment people began to blackmail themselves, which was a suggestion, then to publicly discredit and destroy, and when it ended with them in such a way that they became good insiders. We'll have a chance to talk about this in the long and longest possible way. This is a file that counts several hundred pages. The SRS, of course, has files and files. We worked for many years, collecting certain data, but we are particularly interested in this period after 2000 and, when the time comes, we will try to present it to the Serbian public. The Serbian public must know why our political action at certain times seemed what it looked like. Also, he must know unequivocally that what the SRS was saying and why Dr Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague is a direct resistance to the neoliberal occupation of the world. The Serbian public should know that American and deleterious interests are being carried out here, not the interests of the Serbian people. We try every day to prove it. The fact that Mrs Malovic is not here today, too, testifys – it is a beautiful picture, in fact, very ugly, but, again, good proof of everything we are trying to prove all these days. We thought we were going to enter a dialogue at least with the government's representative on this important issue. I suppose, in fact, I'm more sure than I suppose, if Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic were there, this presentation would be much more detailed and much more qualified. I'll still try to introduce them in a decent way. What is the subject, and we have painted it through several examples, I hope it is clear to the Serbian public now, that the institutions in Serbia will not be able to function. Because when did institutions work in one protectorate? It seems to me that the situation today in Serbia reminds me of the formation of a special department of Belgrade Special Police, which has been filling concentration camps in Belgrade's territory in time, whether the Old Fair, Banjica, etc. A cruel comparison, but, you'll allow, a stylish figure can be suited to the spirit of the time we're in. Mrs. Radeta also assumed that no one would appear here from the authorities, and in the end, almost definitively, she gave a picture of which should be discussed. Here's what she says: "When these points are on the agenda, Parliament is mostly not having a debate and we do not relate to personal names and last names, but it was always somehow instructed that at least we know the reasons why certain people stop performing such an important and so responsible duty. ''In view of the poor experience of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the members of the SRS Committee, therefore, Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic, were still in the previous assembly meeting insisting that, with such proposals, MPs should be provided with appropriate documentation. Obviously, this time we didn't get proper documentation, we heard from Mr. Ristic about the reasons. We hope that this will be corrected very quickly and that we will indeed have an open dialogue on everything the opposition MPs have set here as a concrete example, and as regards the climate in the judiciary and the work of institutions in the state of Serbia and who actually manages Serbia. What we should also say is that we are witnesses and to remind ourselves not so long ago, the press also wrote about it, some judges had to file a motion to resolve the judicial function because they did not accept that they were in line with the will of the ruling majority, regardless of the law and free judicial confidence. There have also been cases of judges applying for a resolution because in decisions it is larger, say, forging their signature. We don't know what the reasons are now. These were examples, so that's why we're expressing our suspicion. So, I have no intention of re-enacting specific cases now, given that my colleagues, Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic, spoke of it being written and verifiable. Just on the basis of such experiences, the question for Mrs Malovic, as minister of justice and member of the VSS, is it – is the situation today with all these proposals that we should discuss? It is known that some judges, who are honorary professionals, also do not want to work in courts because of the influence and intervention of the executive government. Of course, all this also applies to public prosecutors. Then we would like to ask Mrs Malovic, who, unfortunately, is not there – how will she protect all those who will only try to enforce the letter of the law, in the context of corruption and organised crime? So far, we have two examples, one murder of a judge, one attempted murder of a judge, and his wife was killed. So these are examples that should be officially answered – how will they protect these people and what message is being sent to judges and prosecutors? On the other hand, here is the question – how will there be capacity, if the MIP budget is down 26%, and the budgets of all resolution ministries? Is this then a concrete message to Boris Tadic's regime -- as he thinks, and is it really serious when he says that Serbia should deal with organised crime? So we can realize that since 2000, the least we can say is that very strange things have been happening in the area of justice. The departure, for example, of some retired judges was linked to certain illegal activities, and the punishment for that was retirement. To remind you, you remember the case of a judge from Nis, who was placed on Mr. Ristic's proposal. He is no longer present, I believe he will enter, so he will be able to confirm that, as chairman of the Justice Committee, and therefore a member of the VSS. She was put on the jury post a year before she retired. According to Mrs Radeta, in the previous assembly we discussed a large number of court proposals similar to these today, and then we found that some judges had acquired conditions for retirement for a year or two before the motions for a decision came to Parliament. We didn't get an answer until today, did the judges, in the meantime, judge, receive any wages? Who is responsible that they, neither guilty nor debtor, are brought into such a situation? On Saturday, the Serbian judiciary, the impression of my colleagues, began in 2001. Since then, cases have been known to the general public, and then the chairman of the Justice Committee was Bosko Ristic, when, for the presidents of the courts, the secretaries of the farming cooperatives were elected, without a single day of work in the judiciary, or at the same session were elected judges and immediately for the presidents of the court. The influence of the executive authority on the judicial area has been looked at through the years by the promised judicial budget, which has not been realised to this day and which brings judges and prosecutors to the direct dependence of the prime minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A particular problem in the Serbian judiciary is the tribunalisation of the judiciary, which is particularly highlighted in the so-called justice system. Special courts for organized crime for war crimes. On the subject of the insider, Dr Vojislav Seselj published a book on the way insiders are made, how they should testify, so the public is also familiar with it. You had a chance to follow the prosecution's evidence procedure. I think any further word is too high. So, the co-worker's institute, according to the UN tribunal's reputation, has become, unfortunately, the most profitable interest in Serbia. This enables criminals and people of suspicious morality, least of all, to be freed by the authorities of all the guilty crimes they have committed. The co-workers' witnesses have become key evidence in the war crimes council at the District Court's Organized Crimes Department in Belgrade. We will insist, as a parliamentary group, on the public during all these testimony, during all these proceedings, and I suppose, given the principle of the need for transparency, that the ruling coalition will not mind. If she's against it, it'll be evidence of a relationship to everything. Another evidence of sincere desire that Boris Tadic's regime is being dealt with with with with crime and corruption, is that the opposition submits proposals for the formation of polling committees to establish illegal actions in the case of monopolys, such as Lucy "Belgrade" and the Business Centre "Usce". However, the Serbian public should know the following. The opposition can only put the problem this way, within institutions, but there is no executive power, there is no power to resolve it further. We look forward to Mr. Dacic handing over all the documentation we submitted to UBOPOK, and we will closely monitor the results of the investigation. It is a sad fact that this is done by the opposition, in the term of office of the authorities who have been given the mandate to deal with such harmful phenomena, that they are actually doing her job. I'll return to the exhibit prepared by Mrs. Radeta. So, all of these anomalies that the SRS MPs were talking about, whenever there was an opportunity, because we felt it was our obligation and that this was the mandate we had received, brought into question the work of all judges and prosecutors, or their deputies in Serbia. It's a very bad thing, because there are really honest and honorable people among them. Every generalization is bad. I want to avoid it this time. So, we have always claimed, we claim today, that most judges, public prosecutors, or deputies, career people, honest and honorable, and that they are working in accordance with the law, according to the principle adopted recently – that the law is the same for everyone and that they are all the same under the law. Unfortunately, these judges, although significantly more numerous, cannot come to terms than those who are building a career by irrevocably fulfilling government orders. It is almost a public secret that such people cheer and dress in the Serbian judiciary. It is also a public secret that there are strong centres of power in the Serbian judiciary, but we will talk about it at another time, when there is a representative of the government. Such is the situation in the judiciary, which has long been in V.D. a state, with a lot of dissatisfaction by the employees of the judiciary and the judiciary. Several times reforms were announced. We will see that these reforms, which are announced and talked about, say, in Strasbourg, and not Belgrade, will solve all these problems that I have tried in a few examples to bring closer to the real picture of the Serbian judiciary, but I fear that they will bring only lustration – those who are not at the will of the regime, will be removed, and those who will carry out the tasks will remain. We have been listening for nine years to representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia about how judicial fees will, for example, be used for the salaries of judicial employees. To this day, that didn't happen. This is a recession, when it comes to the agenda, we will talk more specifically, but the public needs to know that in the assembly procedure there is a bill on amendments to the Law on Court Taxes, where there is a significant increase in court fees, of course, again to charge the budget and again in the citizens' pocket, and the Government has been telling us for days how their so-called. The measures to get out of the economic crisis will not affect Serbian citizens. We say he will. After all, both you and we will deny practice, deny daily life. Also, for Serbian citizens, it would be a more rhetorical question -- how many are there without ever having contact with the court? We think there's a small number of those who didn't have an obligation to file a lawsuit in a motion for a non-partisan trial or a criminal suit. All of this will be much more expensive when the draft law is adopted in the congregation procedure. Again, it is our impression that it will probably be just for the sake of a more successful budget charge. When V.D. is mentioned The situation in the judiciary, we thought, primarily, that we should remind the citizens of Serbia of the public prosecutor, Mr Radovanovic, who is in V.D. a state of more than two years, which, you will admit, is a case unremembered in the world. We know you can't put a proposal for his appointment on the agenda, because when it's on the agenda, the citizens will hear what his merits are to be on such high ground. That's what we promise, as we do for every item on the agenda. You probably won't have a majority in the ruling coalition for his choice, so you keep him in an incredibly inadmissible time in V.D. condition, because, finally, what would be the reason and justification for long-term V.D. The state of the public prosecutor's office? You've also put the Supreme Court in that position now and the question is when you're going to execute the election of the Supreme Court president. It would be really good if Mrs. Malovic were here. Without any notice in the public, the news came in the media that Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero was replaced by V.D. President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Mesarovic. It's the same lady who's gonna be remembered for her unconscious confession that she's made court decisions just by signing them, and someone else has. To remind you, Mrs Mesarevic has issued sentences for the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic; instead of – we have made a decision, she said – we have received a decision, and that is when everyone heard and I just remind myself. Immediately afterwards, it was established to be the most important function in Serbia. We saw that even publicly she began to make political statements, which is totally unacceptable. A few days ago, she said in the media: "Our country's progress process can only be accelerated by a firm commitment and a great commitment to achieving European goals, such as respect for human rights, the establishment of the rule of law and the development of democracy." I have been through several concrete examples, not based on the SRS election, showing that this is just an ideal in Serbia, an idea, a flossula, a marketing campaign and that it is unattainable. Serbia is a protectionist state, in which the interests of Washington and Brussels are carried out. Does this further mean that the acting president of the Supreme Court believes that human rights are not respected in Serbia, that Serbia is not a democratic country and that there is no rule of law, or does it think that the world is beginning with its statement? It'll show up very soon. Also, it has been observed that the minister of justice, unfortunately, Mrs Malovic is not there and we cannot enter the dialogue with her, often appears in public with statements that are sometimes not within her jurisdiction. It is therefore surprising that she did not react, let's say, to this statement by the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, that she did not react to all the initiatives by the SRS, and that it concerns everything I've talked about. I wouldn't want to repeat myself. It's important that the public knows. We cannot even know what the details of the talks were between her and Mr. De Kermabon, the head of the Eulex mission, in which way the Serbian Justice Minister negotiates with a mission that is illegal and illegal and against which he should express, finally, an official, institutional position. That's what we hear from the media, not the Serbian ones. We often report on the basis of media releases in neighbouring republics. Also, what we would remind Mrs Malovic of if she were there, and as far as the interests of the Serbian public are concerned, is that her name will remain on the black pages of Serbian history of the judiciary, as regards the signing and extradition of Mr Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. To this day, it was not revealed who actually kidnapped Dr Radovan Karadzic and how the arrest was carried out. Then the institution would probably convince us that it was two-way co-operation, not the fulfillment of the UN tribunal's orders. Here we would probably enter a dialogue on what presummation of innocence means and what are then and how the state of Serbia protects the basic corruption of fundamental rights. We would like to know how to protect, say, one of the basic human rights - the right to a fair trial. Just to remind you, Dr. Vojislav Seselj made the right choice by strike a hunger strike. We do not remember that the state of Serbia reacted in time and the right way when one prisoner, suspected of war crimes, defended his right by jeopardising his life because he had no other. We remember that petition being signed by, say, one of today's most prominent intellectuals, Mr. Noam Chomsky, that it was supported by Michael Mandel, that this petition was also signed by Edward Herman and many other Western prominent intellectuals. I will talk about another case, not citing names, where the minister of justice has made it clear to the judges in Serbia that, when they receive an item, they should not look at the list of cases, because it can be very dangerous, but only to look at the name and name of the defendant and to give a good assessment or to inform whether that name is important or not for the DS to which it belongs and for Mr Tadic. So it turns out that, in fact, you don't know these regulations that you represent here and, acting in accordance with DS's views, you've suspended, say, some people in Zabela. If Mrs. Malovic were here, we'd hear the details of all that, I hope. When Mrs. Malovic was explained that they could not, in fact, be responsible for a decision, and the court grander, the faster-better-requested shift of judges who made the decision was requested. Also, Mrs Malovic did not miss going to Zabel and taking pictures there with Mr Ristic, the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee, and no one knows what it is. If Mrs. Malovic were there, I would once again ask her a question as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. She did not respond to SRS's motions for resolution, which were submitted by the SRS, judges who participated in the SNS's election theft, to the harm of the SRS. We didn't get the official answer. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that last year's justice minister led almost to the state of collapse in the Public Prosecutor's Office, because we voted only on the last working day of 2008. At that time, SRS MPs voted in favour of these changes, which consisted only in extending the deadline for the implementation of the CAP, because if it had not been done, it would not have been possible to conduct a criminal procedure. We, as always, have shown that we work exclusively in the interest of citizens. Since Mrs Malovic is not here, courtesy is working, I will leave this kind of dialogue for the moment when the minister of justice appears. At the end of last year, to remind you, we were discussing the so-called. Ms Malovic was an authorised representative of the government. We tried to be more than correct in addressing Mrs Malovic, given the situation she was in and the whole atmosphere. The worst part is that, regardless of the devastating proposals adopted by the congregation majority, you are very likely not aware of the consequences that all these proposals can bring when it comes to certain concrete solutions. The worst is, in fact, that, to remind one of these laws, it is envisaged to abolish a large number of courts in Serbia, which is why judges, prosecutors, witches, lawyers and all citizens in those places are still panicking. What the justice minister should answer us to is how he thinks the Serbian judiciary is going to work after everything that's been brought out here, and I think my time is coming to an end. I suppose Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic will tell me how much longer I have at my disposal. (President: you have 18.30 minutes left. ) I suppose there are some other colleagues who will talk about this item of the agenda, if not, what should be referred to the Minister of Justice, and as regards the functioning of the judiciary, my colleagues have prepared themselves for this item of the agenda, is precisely a set of laws that should mean reforming the justice system. What is a happy circumstance is that these laws will not apply during this year, and given the way this government works, I believe there will be no conditions for their application, because this will definitely mean chaos in Serbia's judiciary. It's our political confidence and we have the right to bring it to the public. After all, what we had a chance to see on the ground, just when it comes to the abolition of courts, actually, the picture of what will come with the application of these laws. We will see what a political climate will be then, what political circumstances will be, whether there will be maturity and courage to deal with the real functioning of institutions in Serbia. Then we didn't hear any arguments that would have weight, in terms of the need to abolish so many courts, let's say, in small places, that mean a lot to all these people. In some other context, when you end a court or terminate a school, it's as if you're breaking up life in one place. In light of the financial crisis, which reflects the situation in Serbia, the question arises whether people will be able to come to certain judicial decisions and judicial solutions for the problems they face daily, especially in light of the increase in court fees? So what should be explained to these citizens, because of the fact that they live in the poorest municipalities, poor enough to have difficulty exercising their rights before the judicial authorities, and now that the headquarters of these bodies is in their places, or municipalities, is what it will look like when they have to cross tens of miles to courts in the district's headquarters. I guess only those citizens know that. After all, citizens will give their response to an attempt at reform, or the implementation of chaos in the judicial system in the state of Serbia, we have no doubt. It should remind fellow Serbian lawmakers and citizens that a large number of amendments have been submitted to the law and from the ranks of the ruling coalition, from MPs who have shown how much they do not really respect their voters and how inconsistencies they are in their representation. If that were not the case, they would not have voted for legal solutions if their amendments were not accepted, because that is the essence of the amendment, and what was the balance of the vote – it is that you adopted the proposed package of laws regardless of what your amendments were not adopted. What will certainly be a test for all of us is how much we fulfill what the mandate is given at the disposal of all the people who go out, still, in a certain number and vote for us. To remember, first of all, it is important that the Serbian public remember what this is about, for example, counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic, otherwise the president of the Parliament's Legislative Committee, unfortunately, is not there, but I hope that he will be able to listen, the amendment asked that in Ruma, where he comes from, he remain the seat and the court and the public prosecutor's office. However, the consequence of all this is that his amendment, as far as we can see, is not accepted, but that Mr. Ratkovic voted in favour of this law. So these are the inconsistencies that sound to us as a very clear message that the most common moves of the ruling coalition are completely illogical. But aside from the fact that we are all clearly slaves to certain political wills and, most of us, certain orders, that is, you, it is not clear how you are going to go out to the citizens who sent you to this home and how you are going to go out on that real test today of making all these political decisions, in terms of the total collapse of the basic existential needs of the citizens of Serbia. But we'll leave that for the election. What is also important for this item of the agenda, is that we expected the representative of the resolution ministry to be there, so that we could, through dialogue, talk about all this and raise concrete and significant issues in the field of justice. We, unfortunately, are discussing this item of the agenda without having prior information as to why this number of people cease to carry out their duties. Also, we're taking the opportunity to raise certain questions. We are absolutely sure that Mrs Malovic will be informed at some point about all this and that when she appears before the representatives of the people, she will give concrete answers to a large number of initiatives that have come from the SRS. The reminders are about the laws we discussed at the time we didn't vote, but you adopted them. You've tied up all the judges and public prosecutors and their deputies, our impression, of the will of the authorities. All in the judiciary, then the professional associations of judges rebelled, know that you passed a law that provides for re-election of all judges and public prosecutors, which is devastating for the Serbian judiciary, because in this way it is burdened by judges who are honorary professionals, who, again, are most in Serbia, that they must take care of the interests of the ruling coalition, or that they deliberately delay procedures, to cancel hearings, so that they do not mind one of you in the meantime. That's what we meet every day and one of the public secrets. This is an undivided opinion between judges and prosecutors. I also believe that representatives of the ruling coalition know that all of these laws are perceived as a rock on their necks, and we would like you to convince us that the judiciary is completely relieved of influence by the authorities. Then, most likely, the dialogue would be conducted in another parliament of another Serbian state, in which all the laws would be applied, for example, in the territory of KIM, in which all the institutions of the system would function, in which a whole set of human rights guaranteed by the highest state act of one state, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which all would have the full and equal right to participate evenly in decisions, in which MPs would truly be respected persons, and Parliament would be institutions of respect, while the media would implement what is the basic principle of reporting, journalism, i.e. freedom, therefore, completely independent of the influence of tycoon and certain centers of power. It's an ideal that probably some other furniture in power, freed from the influence of Washington and Brussels, will go. The current situation is that Serbia looks exactly what it looks like. So, we tried here, thanks, first of all, to Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic's contribution, to discuss concrete cases, proposals for decisions that are on the agenda today. The illustrations do, you can see in the material that we received for this assembly that we have cases here today that we are proposing, say, the termination of the judge's duty due to the completion of the working age of some judges who met the conditions for retirement in July, August or November of last year. Of course, this is not about what people's MPs and citizens of Serbia should be interested in. The theme in Serbia is, apparently, to draw attention to some entirely different topics, so that it would not be seen that the state of Serbia, as I quoted Mr Tadic as saying, de facto, recognises, or the regime of Boris Tadic, the independence of KIM, that reforms are carried out in the interest of only Washington and Brussels, and that no one in Serbia can further be sure that they will live a life of decent people. What the SRS will endure is that elections for the fact that in May elections the Election List – SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj won 78 mandates, that elections for the fact that this is what the Serbian Parliament looks like in 2009, that this is also an election for the fact that this is a picture of parliamentary democracy in Serbia under Mr Boris Tadic's regime, which we have seen, as we have seen from the writing of a daily list, the establishment of the Eulex mission in the entire KIM territory. The state of Serbia has actually experienced the picture Mr. Mijatovic is talking about in her book "Saccess for Serbia". Serbia was definitely waited by Washington and Brussels, destroyed by the economy, impoverished, humiliated, and all because someone in power decided that the fate of Serbian citizens would be like this. What we should also remind ourselves of is that the citizens wanted only one thing, to live a better life with a decent man. In the next election, each of us will be able to look these people in the eye and say, "No, this is not a "sacrifice" for Serbia, we live in Serbia that is economically recovered, reformed, where we all have equal rights of participation, not just those who are in the will of the government, where laws are being implemented and where everyone is protected by the institution of the system, where the system's institutions serve as a service to the interests of citizens, rather than working directly on the head of Serbian citizens. So, these elections will respond to how right someone was, whether the mandate for approaching the EU, which directly steals us by 267m euros, amounts to a loss of unilateral application of the Agreement, was a mandate for a man's life. Will the set of laws adopted by emergency procedures these days bring a better life for Serbian citizens, and will they, as early as next week, be in the EU and live in a developed and restored Serbian economy? He won't. What Serbian citizens will definitely learn is that the only way Serbia is the traditional path to friendly countries, which do not condition politically, which do not derivate what is called dignity and do not destroy what should be a man's life. Each of us will respond politically to the election. The SRS Parliament Club will, you see by its initiatives to set up survey committees, try to establish that it makes a clear and loud statement of the name of anyone who has misused power in favour of his personal interests. We will also try to definitely and very clearly point out who is behind which people in Boris Tadic's regime, who decided in 2008 and 2009, to overturn the electoral will of citizens and thus drive them out of free will in the elections for a long time, because their job is a message that regardless of what they voted, America and Britain will determine who will rule Serbia. What should ultimately be a dilemma for all of us, is how, when this session is over, in a picture like this, we will go out to the citizens and say that Serbia is a parliamentary democracy. So, we'll really try, what we can do as an opposition party is to find the problem, to wait for the solution in some other political circumstances, but be assured that even in this projection, Boris Tadic, that only two parties manage Serbia, there will always be someone who will speak very loudly and clearly for the names of all those who work directly contrary to the interest of the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-16-0.u17590	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want any word from the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise the right of Article 93 of our Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, No 118766, of 6 March 2009; Proposal for a decision to dismiss the court's office, No 118767, of 6 March 2009; Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of a public prosecutor, No 118768, of 6 March 2009; Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of a deputy prosecutor, No 118769, of 6 March 2009; Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's office, No 1181076, of 26 March 2009 and a motion for a decision to relieve the court's office, No 1181077, of 26 March 2009. Dear People's MPs, allow me, at the end of today's session, on your behalf and on your behalf, to most warmly congratulate the greatest Christian holiday, Easter, Orthodox believers and all the citizens of Serbia who celebrate Easter on the Julian calendar. I want everyone to spend the upcoming holiday days in spiritual peace, health, with loved ones, with the traditional greeting "Christos Voscrese". We'll continue our work on Tuesday, April 21st, 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mr. Aligrudic wants a word.
