ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15568	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 132 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present, so there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the sittings of MP Velimir Ilic, Milica Radovic and Jelena Travar-Miljević. Mr. Markicevic first answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15569	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I exercise my rights under Article 235. Rules of Procedure, since it's Thursday, I'm looking for a notice. Dear President, it seems to me that a few months ago I asked one question to a minister, and until today I have not received an answer. So from the means of information, all Serbian citizens and MPs have received information that the Ministry of Culture has paid 350,000 dinars for an organisation's site called "Kvirija". I've also asked the question to this day, even though you promised to perform an emergency emergency, I didn't get an answer. All citizens of Serbia who watched a public service show at 22.05 last night could actually see who represented this Quiria association. So, the lady or the lady herself said that they got together so much from the jokes, the three or four, and they got 350,000 dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as we like to say, from the people's money. Since we saw what it looked like last night and what attitudes the group represented, three or four, as they said themselves, it is clear as a day why the culture minister avoids answering my parliamentary question. A few questions at the end of last night's session I asked Mr. Minister of Human and Minority Rights, who sits here. I think he was writing something down. Today I expect the answers to the questions I asked yesterday in my own, so to speak, to a regular discussion. Also, on last night's public service show, we saw a gentleman, a citizen, who is disabled, Mr Vasiljkovic, what his wishes and minimum needs are. I ask a question to all of us here, and in particular to the Minister of Minority and Human Rights - is he discriminated against by the decision of the Minister of Culture to help one organization that says it has three or four members of the 350,000 people's couples from the Serbian budget, and that a gentleman with disabilities, who apparently sought minimum living conditions, bathroom, if we understand and heard well, is this discrimination disabled and is this the only case in Serbia? These days, in the city from which I come, in Chačka, a young man, a student of the School of Economics in Chačka, leads the most important battle of his life. Everyone helps him, his colleagues and colleagues. What are they going to conclude from last night's show -- what are the priorities of this government, that someone gets 350,000 dinars, as they say, "for kidding," and some of the most basic needs and medicines to save lives, there's no money for them? Not to mention the Belgrade Philharmonic, which, thanks to its director, became a brand and classical music – understood someone in it or not, loved or not – brought closer to the wider layers of citizenship, so that the world's most famous artists intervened, it seems to me, in a letter to the President of the Republic. There's no money for them, but there's money for Quiria. I insist on answering my question -- was Mr. Bradic's culture minister in conflict of interest when he called this organisation, the organisation, because they themselves say he has three or four, paid the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget? I expect you today, Mr. Minister, to respond on behalf of the Government of the Republic. If you do not answer this question, I will indeed believe in an adjective that is circulating among Serbian citizens these days, and that adjective will be glued to the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope everyone understands what that adjective is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15570	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Your participation in the debate was in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure. So on Tuesdays and Thursdays, representatives, or heads of parliamentary groups, from the smallest to the larger ones, appear in that order. It is also an explanation to Mr Aligrudić, why this is the order. There is a word Mr. Maras on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, as an authorised representative -- so in order, from smaller to bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15571	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister... I'm sorry, Mr. Marash. My fellow MPs, I would really like to ask you to be quiet and allow us to hear Mr. Marash. I wanted to ask two questions on behalf of the LDP. The first question concerns the Kovacevic case. The LDP referred a question to the government, i.e. to the foreign ministry, whether and how they participated in the government's decision to place a code of secrecy in the case of Kovacevic, i.e. how was the foreign ministry involved in this affair. Of course, you know it's an affair to pay a hundred million dollars so Mr Kovacevic can process Serbia. The legal deadline expired when the answer that we set on behalf of the LDP was due, and we are only interested in one thing - is there behind this violation of the law the desire of the Foreign Ministry to hide everything they have done and will the government put pressure on the Foreign Ministry to give us an answer? The second question I wanted to raise concerns the oil industry of Serbia, more specifically, the stories of the final account. I must remind you that in 30.06.2008, NIS, according to the Director General, found that they had profits in the first six months over 100 million euros. Madam Chairman, please, if you could turn it down a little bit. (President: Gentlemen, once again I pray for silence and ask that you allow Parliament to work. ) During December 2008, when we discussed the 2009 budget, the ministry's finance, which it repeated here last week, said it was counting on the profit achieved by the NIS. In March 2009, NIS handed over a final account showing profits. According to the minister, who said this here a few days ago, more precisely Friday, the new owner requested a 15-day deadline to correct the final bill and then they showed their loss. The LDP, above all, is interested in who is responsible that NIS from 20th place, among the 500 most successful firms in Europe, has become a loser? Who's so incapacitated that in three months, a 20-seat firm with success in Europe, the defeating position of a loser? Who made the decision that the unsettled 2007 profits of nine billion dinars do not go to the Republic of Serbia's budget to build or restore schools, hospitals, etc., but rather to decide that the losers who are in charge of Serbia's oil industry for fuel, such as Serbia, Serbia's Ways, JATs, are beaten up by debts and that the fact that the state of Serbia was to use, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is beating up on these losers? On whose orders has the Board of Directors of NIS made such a decision? That decision can only be made by the government. What was the Board of Supervisors doing at NIS? Why didn't he control what the owners were doing? The state that the 100 per cent owner was still in 2008? What's NIS management doing? Who is responsible that the new owner, more specifically the Russian side, will sue the Governing Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia, and then Serbia, then the Ways of Serbia, and JAT? Who's responsible that NIS as a loser no longer has a bank rating, so he won't be able to get favourable loans, or maybe the Russians will bring their money, so he'll reduce the role of the state in the property structure and maybe become a 100% owner of NIS? How could the Energy Minister, Mr Skundric, allow the final account to be handed over without the NIS Assembly? Therefore, the LDP asks that the State Auditing Institution, which was established and paid to control between the other and the work of public enterprises last year, was 100 per cent in the hands of the Republic of Serbia, enter the NIS, do business control, examines the justification of all financial arrangements, informs the Assembly and says who is so incompetent to make NIS losers in three months. Who is responsible for the damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget by more than 100m euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15572	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Mr. Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15573	I have two questions, one for the government, that is. Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and the second is for you, the president of the National Assembly. The first question for the government is this. Talks are under way with the IMF aimed at making a new arrangement to provide funds to boost foreign reserves and to implement the addition of a set of anti-crisis, anti-recession measures. We haven't seen a system of comprehensive measures so far, the National Assembly hasn't seen it. Government officials stubbornly defend their projections, which are variable from month to month and are inconsistencies. So, for example. The growth of the social gross product has been assessed in different ways over the last few months. In the revised budget memorandum and economic fiscal policy for 2008, it was projected to 6.5%, to be projected at 3.5% in the government's 2009 memorandum. Look out, it's October to December. Then, in January and February 2009, it is only a month later, government officials announce a revision of the social gross product at 1.5%. Reputable experts, economists argue that it cannot be more than 0.5% for this year, and even there are those whose credibility should not be doubted, who believe that it can be a minus one. Since information relating to basic macroeconomic aggregates is provided here in one extremely incompetent way and these data cannot be considered credible, we believe it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to initiate a session of the National Assembly to discuss two things, as we have prayed several times. The first thing is to see on the basis of which the government of the Republic of Serbia's platform talks to the IMF, what it looks like is the government of the Republic of Serbia's platform to talk to the IMF, because if there is one body in this country, it is the body elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia should report on the platform. Please pass it on to Mr. Cvetkovic. Two, can the government once deprive us of information through a report voted by this National Assembly on a comprehensive package of measures? Obviously, it can't, because based on what I've said so far, these are the naked facts, the government doesn't have an efficient and comprehensive package of measures, so it can't even file a report to the National Assembly, and that's probably why they don't. I'd like them to deny it, and I'll do it in a very simple way, by making it the National Assembly, that is. You, Parliament Speakers, get a request from the government of the Republic of Serbia to hold a session of the National Assembly at which at least these two reports would be submitted and discussed. The second question about you, Madam President, is this. I also asked professional services for a ballot for 18.03. to elect Sonja Licht as a member of the Anti-Corruption Council. On the basis of the documents I have seen, it has been determined that there have been two votes, that the first vote was ended by 125 MPs voting in favour, which was insufficient for the election of this member of the Council, that there were no MPs who voted against, that there were no MPs who had been abstentioned and that there were no MPs who had not voted, or that there were no abstentions, there were no objections and that there were no votes 18. In another case, when you reiterated the vote, those who did not vote agreed to number 12, the MPs who were "abstained" were not, "no" was "no", 127 was "yes". Looking at the listing, which is actually the only relevant clue about what happened that day, not to be determined on the basis of this document that the first vote was irregular. You could only repeat the vote for the reason that you have established a certain irregularity, as you did several times during yesterday's vote, in the event of a vote when some MPs of the ruling coalition voted twice on two different candidates, when it was possible to define themselves only for one. You then established irregularity and in a few cases you reiterated the vote, although you did not do so in several cases where the vote remained irregular. So, I'm interested in whether at least now, if you didn't manage to explain to us yesterday what was the irregularity of the first vote for Sonja Licht's election, where was that irregularity, what was it in? If it's an electronic system, there's a report, the report can't tell there was any mistake. Therefore, it is the right of the MP and not to insert a card, and you have no right to correct it by repeating the vote. We haven't heard from anyone that he asked for a repeat vote yesterday. No one, but no one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15574	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: "And the answer"? Yesterday you received an answer. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15575	You have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have a little comment that has caused my reaction and the need to react. You didn't give me the right. I think that's what hurt the Rules of Procedure. You said we got an answer yesterday, and I asked a specific question. You can see from the stenogram, the answer doesn't exist, you haven't given it a moment. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15576	For reasons of MPs and the public, the electronic system has registered a mistake notified by Vice-President Gordana Comic, which is why I reiterated the vote. That was yesterday's explanation, even today. Whether there are arguments in the electronic system and clues to this form of evidence, in case of the need to conduct such a type of investigation will be established by experts. Mr. Nikolic, come in. I warn the SRS parliamentary group and the deputy president of the parliamentary group that the sounds that interfere with the speaker will be the reason for the imposition of certain sanctions. Please organize yourself so as not to disturb the speaker. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15577	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am taking this opportunity to keep my mouth open, and otherwise it seems tempting to ask a question to someone who is not there and who will never answer you, and I know that the fate of answering my questions will be the same, because I never got the right answer, and since this government, and even the people who run the Assembly, have no answers to our questions at all. But I guess the citizens of Serbia will have some more to think about. First of all, I would like to ask about the negotiations with the IMF, which seem tempting, is about some infusion that would enter our blood stream, to keep us on the course of the dinar, to ask if anyone would ever call for governor NBS's responsibility because he kept the dinar course by spending our foreign exchange reserves, obtained by privatisation, donations, the signs of our citizens from abroad, who spent and threw in the fire more than a billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, and, as economists say, it made the citizens worse, the country was worse, the exporters were worse, and the banks were better? In whose interest is it that the governor of the National Bank runs the National Bank and our monetary policy, and will we one day wait until he's gone, to hold our heads, since the People's Bank is run by a man who is in no way tied to Serbia, except the house of Dedinj, who is to be sold, just like he bought? I wonder if it is accurate information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing for the mass opening of folk cuisine and what is it for the citizens of Serbia? Are you predicting mass layoffs from work, mass misery and poverty? Do you think we're going to put up with you as a government just because you're opening a folk kitchen, we're ideal for Serbia to be a state without folk cuisine, that no one has to humiliate themselves for one meal a day to get in line, get a crust of bread and a plate of something cooked by you as offering? On what basis did you finance the project "St. Georgia Kills Azdah", which distorts the most bright point of Serbian history, throws into the mud chivalry, undertaking and what is inspired by generations of Serbian citizens, Serbs in particular? To what extent did this project deserve more money than any economy for its recovery, is it just that all actors are mostly members of the yellow party, is it just because the project is largely anti-Serbian, so in front of some people in Europe you present yourselves as penitents who dared to defend their country against a superior enemy in World War I? Of course, the most important question for you until you fall or tell us the truth - what is it called "punto", "Serb Punto" in Kragujevac, where parts, whose industry we help, are produced, urging Serbian citizens to buy a new car at the time we cook for them? Is it true that most of the parts are produced in Croatia and isn't it smarter, ladies and gentlemen, that you finance the production of tractors, motocultivator, something that we will finally revive the village, because without a village, our country will most likely not be able to exist anymore. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15578	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, here's evidence that, using the Rules of Procedure, we are not only reporting when it comes to the procedure, but just as I tried to explain yesterday, that the Rules of Procedure also enables us to ask us some questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The question asked by the SRS parliamentary club concerns the visit of Croatian President Sanader, who comes to Serbia for an official visit, and the prime minister announces, in connection with the visit, the withdrawal of our suit against Croatia for war crimes, and the lawsuit or countersuit also covered war crimes committed in World War II, if Croatia withdraws its suit. The goal, according to us, is to forget the crimes in the past and, as Tito forgave the crimes of the Nazis, so today's regime, headed by Tadic, is ready to forgive the Croats for crimes committed against Serbs and ethnic cleansing and persecution of 250 thousand Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska. We ask the question: who gives them the right to give up and forget both the Jasenovac and the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from the Krajina? The paradox is, if Croatia hadn't decided to press charges against Serbia, Jeremic and the authorities in Belgrade would have probably told the Croats, okay, because we forgive all crimes. So, in his time, Minister Jeremic said Serbia cannot cover the World War II genocide suit, because the Convention on Genocide was brought in 1948, so, according to Jeremic, "the legal team in its lawsuit will only look back on the historic period between 1941 and 1945 and the crimes in the NDH". However, the court's statutes formulated international crimes, formulating new categories: crime against peace, crime against humanity, which includes genocide. The works were formulated in 1945 and applied to the entire Second World War. This is where the retroactive principle is applied. We have a full legal basis for launching this case against Croatia since 1941. That's what legal experts say, and we agree with that attitude. That is why we are asking for detailed information when it comes to the countersuit for genocide against Croatia - who makes up the legal team, who claims on the legal team and deceives the public that we cannot press charges against Croatia since 1941. The prime minister now announces that we will withdraw the countersuit if Croatia withdraws the suit against Serbia. Here is another question: who gives the prime minister the right to decide that the Serbian people should forget the crimes committed against the Serb people? Why did they deceive citizens that our lawsuit could not cover crimes committed against Serbs during World War II? I expect that the answer to this question, which was raised in a similar form two months ago, is indeed given, especially very current, and that the very important state moves that can have very significant historical consequences are being taken. The government has the right to run politics, but it must behave in such a way as to be responsible, primarily for its country and generations to come. Just another short question to you: Madam Chairman, when do you intend to put on the agenda an SRS request for us to ask the government and government ministers questions concerning the consequences and way of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the assistance of Serbs in The Hague tribunal, and the country's special attitude towards Vojislav Seselj, who has been in The Hague for the seventh year?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15580	Your proposal is addressed to the government, and we are just in agreements where we will get an answer on the term. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informed that I have called for the session to be attended by Aniko Muskinja-Heinrich, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, whom, as well as the minister, I welcome. I would like to inform you that we received notice from RTS on Thursday, March 19th, because of previous obligations to transfer Serbia's handball team and the basketball Superliga derby, it will not be able to transfer the meeting of the Serbian Parliament directly to the Second Programme since 17.55 p.m., but it will be delayed, as it was yesterday. So I'm taking this opportunity to inform you that we will, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, in case of need, shall work until the end of the period which at 6 p.m. shall be on the agenda. My estimates are that it probably won't happen, but in case there's a need, that's how we'll do it. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Markicevic, and then by Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15581	President, I call on Rule 27, where one says that you, the President, care for the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I've reported in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure and asked for a notice and asked you what you'd do about the matter I'm asking. I guess I'm supposed to get some answers. Otherwise, Article 235 makes no sense, if you leave me without an answer or ignore me, which I must admit is that so far, both towards me and the NS parliamentary group, at least it wasn't happening by you. Please answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15582	The resolution ministry will receive questions through the form of a stenogram and we will insist on a swift response, as we do in case within two weeks, and as it stands in our Rules of Procedure, they do not give an answer. So that's what services do, that's what we're gonna do this time. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15583	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, 127, 121 and 143 are members who are now asking us for a common response. I remind you, Madam President, that during yesterday's day we pointed to an obvious irregularity that was carried out during the vote for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Council. A year ago, elections were held in Serbia for the president of the Republic. The result of these elections has been prolonged, although it was obvious that the final outcome could not be changed, due to an irregularity made at the polling station, I mean in the Zaječar municipality. Namely, one citizen voted with a card that was not valid because it expired. RIK, by respecting the law, reiterated the vote in the polling post, to remove irregularities, thus allowing the president of the Republic to choose without any doubt and possible violations of the law. President, yesterday you realized that Mrs. Sonja Licht had not received the necessary number of votes and had not been elected. We are not the ones who need to get into the justification of the re-vote or not, but it was not done in the way that it had to be done. Article 121 provides for voting procedures using the electronic system. As President of Parliament, you have found that the Assembly has made a certain decision, and if someone has objected afterwards, the whole procedure has to be repeated. Why does it matter? Because it is about selecting a member of the Council of one of the most important state bodies, which needs its full purpose to give exactly in the fight against corruption, which will be made difficult unless there is no legitimacy and if it is not chosen in a procedure established. Madam President, I once again warn you of the problem we are facing and which we cannot ignore, which stems from an irresponsible relationship to the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Article 143 of Article 4 states that each applicant of the amendments in this assembly has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than 10 hours. This means that if we discuss in detail the anti-discrimination law, we deny the right for MPs to talk about the amendments they have submitted. Five years ago, the Constitutional Court shot down a member of the Rules of Procedure on which we worked and insisted and obliged us to allow every MP to talk about the amendment that was filed. We do not think it is good to cast a shadow on anti-discrimination law because one failure and hasty will be applied in such a way, deny the right to speak to the MPs about half the amendments submitted. Please make an urgent appointment of parliamentary clubs to find an adequate answer to such a thing and do not expect LDP to sacrifice the interests of citizens, which is why this law is passed, in such a way that, practically, the law is passed with a violation of the Constitution and thus makes it pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15584	Thank you. With regard to the suggestion of consultation, we can do so, but I am obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, as it was brought. So respect for the Rules of Procedure on both my part and yours is necessary. In case there are certain discrepancies with the higher acts, of course there is the possibility of procedures related to the issue. Here you go, again by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15585	Madam President, it's not about whether or not we interpret the Constitution well. In 2003, the Constitutional Court ordered the Serbian Parliament, by its decision, to amend the then applicable Rules of Procedure, precisely because the Rules of Procedure made it impossible for every MP in the Assembly to submit an amendment or explain its amendment. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court and that decision has been binding on those who have made amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We pointed out something like that when the debate was held and we can't read it again now, i.e. Of course we can make another mistake and thereby further endanger normal relations both in the Assembly and in society, but then we do not have the right to expect others to behave in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, if we as Parliament do not respect this constitution and these laws. That's all it's about. I suggest we find a normal solution and allow a debate that will be consistent with the topic we are talking about. We cannot fight discrimination by ignoring the Constitutional Court's decision and discriminating someone whether we agree with them or not. We have no understanding for those who criticise this law, but we cannot deny them the right to speak of it, because it is against constitutional and illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15586	The board of directors will be aware of your findings. I give my word to Mr. Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15587	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a very important law. This may also be concluded by the number of amendments to be submitted to the same. If, Mr. Minister, at least for a number of members, you respect the objections made here by the MPs, I think we will be able to have one good law, which is also necessary today for Serbia. I would point out here to Article 15, where discrimination is being discussed in the proceedings before the public authorities. Otherwise, when we talk about discrimination, we often think about discrimination that is present between legal and natural persons, and we very little talk about discrimination that is present in the relations of state authorities with civil persons, or individuals. I'm going to list a few drastic examples that are part of your work, and what you're going to have to take care of soon. In eastern Serbia, we have one ethnic group, Autochton, they're Vlachs. They have their own culture and they have their own language. Recently, on March 4th, a celebration was held in Bor, with the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia present besides Vlah, as well as the state authorities of Romania. It was especially welcomed that Serbia would introduce Romanian language to schools in that part of our country. We know that Romanians live in some parts of Serbia's territory and it is perfectly normal to learn in their own language. What's done in eastern Serbia is just discrimination against Vlaha, because they don't want to learn Romanian. The state of Serbia is conducting the Romanianisation of Vlah in its territory. That, gentlemen, is inadmissible. We're working against ourselves. The minister of education ordered that Romanian be introduced to these schools by autumn. Is it necessary, instead of helping Vlasas as a special, specific ethnic group, that their language that is not fully worked out, which has no grammar, to help their language, their culture take its place here in Serbia, and we work exactly the other way around? We're helping what's never been done before, to Romanianize the Vlach. Another example of discrimination is the reserve. For years, participants in the 99th war have been protesting throughout Serbia, so often here in front of the Serbian government. One of the government's wrong decisions a year ago led to the fact that the reserves are no longer mentioned in the 99th year, but simply require that some reservers who are largely not discriminated against against the reserves that were paid two years ago are paid a fee. I'm not getting into whether that fee was supposed to be paid or not. The next group, which was discriminated against by state authorities, avoided and temporarily displaced persons. If in the process before the state authorities, to get a ID card, if you are a temporarily displaced person with KIM, you get a ID card that appears to be the same as the identity cards of all other Serbian citizens. But according to that letter, you're a temporarily displaced person. It's certainly discrimination then. Mr. Minister, I've already said that only a few members of this law need to be corrected. However, our remarks will be on a large number of members. For what? When you're working out a way of implementing it here in law, you predicted there was a trustee to protect equality. For months now, Mr. Minister, it has been said that the state administration is too massive, that the state administration is burdening the budget, and every minister here to present the law, with his law, provides for a further increase in state administration, by introducing different agencies, you by introducing trustees and his professional services by at least 30-40 people will increase the state administration. You predicted for the next year how much money it would take. When we discuss in detail, we may discuss this in more detail. Now we're giving you an idea to think about another solution that has also been given to you through this European recommendation number two in 1997. We already have an ombudsman and he has his deputies. It is foreseen here that it may be some commission, perhaps even some parliamentary committee. I would accept that it is even a trustee, but if you are willing to, for the number of people you predict to have the Trustee and his professional service, reduce your ministry and, as the Minister of State Administration and local self-government says, or interrupt as the Minister of Economy and Regional Development says, no more will be accepted or increased by even one man by the number of civil servants, and even if those who retire will not be accepted in their places. In addition to the article. 18 and 21, please, when you discuss amendments to the Government, think of another way to resolve the issue of implementing this law in a more rational way, not to spend additional budgets and not to burden the state administration with new officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15588	The People's MP Ivan Andric has the word, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic. I apologize, the word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15589	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although this proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination is a significant step towards harmonising our legislation with European legislation, although it is a condition for putting our country on the white Schengen list, the adoption and application of this law is, first and foremost, the internal need of our society. This need implies that we do everything possible to make this society more humane, more modern, more democratic, and therefore we need to create conditions and adopt standards that will prevent minorities in this country from feeling danger, being discriminated, adopting norms that will prevent individuals or groups from being forced to conceal these personal qualities, or that the privileged majority will manifest supremacy by expressing impatience, hatred, and violence. This is what is not natural - hatred, intolerance and violence is what has destroyed us so far. To achieve this, there is not enough general, principle constitutional provisions and certainly not enough for us to have a constitutional provision that abolishes slavery at the beginning of the third millennium. We need an elimination, a release from irrational fears, xenophobia, homophobia, racism, nationalism, misogyny. We need to raise awareness and responsibility to help others and different ones, whether they are persons with disabilities, old people or ethnic minorities. It is therefore important for this law to be applied and, as for all laws, the government is primarily responsible. So I ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, to do everything possible to ensure that this law remains not only a legal standard, but that both you and the Government and all of us MPs make sure that the application of this law is a moral imperative for all. When the law itself was passed, unlike many laws that we adopted here, which were contradictory, confusing, inapplicable, not sufficiently precise, unlike all these laws, it is indeed one of not only the most important, but of the best laws that we have had in the last six years, because it is very clear, precise and applicable, clearly defined and discriminatory, and forms, and cases, and a mechanism of trustee to protect equality has been established. I would also like only briefly, without reducing the importance of discrimination against minorities, that as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality by mentioning and the only discrimination of the majority, it is discrimination against our wife. This law is also very important because it is a roof, better said law ground needed to adopt a law on gender equality. That women have specific questions that concern them, say various data that depict the position of women in our society. Among other things, these are data that say women are harder to get jobs and are usually conditioned by family status. Then, they're about 15% less paid than men for the same job. Only 20% of women have been in command since 2000. The same percentage of women are in the political decision-making process, with a small percentage of women participating in the country's security. How much is this concern about women's rights, it says that the media totalled only 15% of women's space, and in this 15% there are misogyny, black chronicles and entertainment. What's most alarming, violence as the worst form of discrimination, I want to illustrate that 95% of the conviction for violence against women, or children, every fifth child is abused, ends with conditional sanctions. So I think that the application of this law is important, that not only are the general constitutional principles not enough, that not just church dogmas are enough, because as positive and good as they are, those in history have not prevented war and crime. That is why I call on everyone to adopt this law, so that we can honor this society and make it more humane and democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15590	The People's Messenger Željko Tomic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15591	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a representative of the Government on the law on the prohibition of discrimination, besides the present Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Mr Svetozar Ciplic, has been appointed by the government and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Rasim Ljajic, but he is unfortunately not here. It would be good to be, since he is the minister of work, and I fear that one of the most disciplined categories in Serbia is employed. I must remind myself of those pre-election false promises made by today's parties that make up the ruling coalition on 200,000 new jobs, so it has now recently turned into a sentence by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, that the Serbian government is struggling to preserve jobs. New jobs, especially 200,000, can't and won't be. Unfortunately, the Minister of Labour, Mr Ljajic, is not present to tell us any more about the discrimination of employees, the discrimination of workers, and not to remind how many thousands of people in the meantime, during this incompetent and irresponsible government, have run out of work. About workers and employees so much. I guess some other minister will be able to say something about not talking about the prime minister who doesn't do the job. That's why today and yesterday, we have the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, the minister of the random ministry. Why am I talking about random? I have to remind myself of the DS relationship, as the headquarters of the ruling coalition, towards human and minority rights, was at the very beginning when the ministry law was passed. I will remind you of the amendment of MP Marko Djurisic, who suggested that this ministry be not part of the government. Only for the intervention of us from the DSS, SVM MPs and others, did this ministry come to life in this government. So much for responsibility and sense of responsibility within this government itself. How much, in addition to this, the DSS is committed to human and minority rights and in general to these issues dealing with today's law that we're talking about today, say some more facts - full of affirmation of national councils. National councils experienced their full affirmation during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It is unnecessary to say about the Constitution, that more than one-third of the text of the Constitution was dedicated to human and minority rights, so when the Presidents of the Constitutional Court, for example, France and Spain, were then in Serbia, they said there was no such thing in the world. They even said at one point that it was insane, that too much space had dedicated itself to it. So much for our relationship with these issues, as well as the first anti-discrimination law passed during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Law on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. The complete inconclusion of this government is looking into one more thing. This law came into the congregation procedure, was as a item of the agenda associated with the Law on Parent Books, although they have absolutely nothing to do with it, and then after the intervention of seven churches and religious communities withdrawn, so there were some consultations that we as MPs knew nothing about, so some church objections were respected, most of them were not, so today we are discussing this one single law, so on. Schengen law, allegedly the last of that group of laws. It also speaks of the seriousness of this government. Did the Minister of Faith, Mr. Bogoljub Šijakovic, participate in these talks with church credibilitys? No, there was Mr. Ljajic, there was Mr. Ciplic, if the church's position was respected, and he only respected the fact that two or three formulations of this law were changed, the minister of religion was neither involved in the drafting of this law nor went to consultations, since the government estimated that talks with churches and religious communities should be conducted, but the minister of religion was not there. Who's doing all the work around here, who's doing the job? As for the church's position and churches, it should be pointed out as they stated in their statement, that the position of the church is based on the 12th Protocol along with the European Convention on Human Rights. The church reminds me, when I say church I mean all the churches of this statement, these seven churches, that all three religions, Islam, Judaism and Christianity, do not approve of homosexual ties. They have the right to say that. I don't know how well it is known, especially to representatives of the ruling coalition, that in a proposal for a European constitution that has not yet been adopted, but all pro-European forces hope to be adopted, it says unequivocally - that Europe is based on the principles of Christian civilization. It is written in the text of the European Constitution. So I think it was time that the communication between the state and the church was better, that it existed, and then we wouldn't come into those grotesque situations, what was the withdrawal of the law, and then the subsequent return to the assembly search. I will quote the archbishop of Belgrade Stanislav Hotchevar, what he resents on all these issues: "I am sorry that there was no public discussion in our entire society in Serbia." It directly coincides with what the minister, Mr. Ciplic, brought to us yesterday and several times in various media performances. He presented a public discussion and a public debate on the law by leading it into four Serbian cities within two months. The archbishop, Belgrade-based Stanislav Hochevar, says he knows no position of any philosopher, ideologist, anthropologist, theologian or any expert, who would be interested in this kind of law, has come across no position. I'm afraid that public debate is fixed, instrumentalized, just like the public debate on the famous AP Vojvodina statute, where only party activists came to decor. Next, the concept of gender identity is introduced. He was erased from two members in response to the church's reaction, and from his explanation, but he remained in Article 13. What I was saying yesterday I will repeat, what is a birth identity, that category first appears in Serbian legislation and this ministry has been obliged and obliged to give us a definition of birth identity. It's not done. We need to know what it is. It's my free appraisal, today as a man of my 40s and a change of years I decide to be a woman, pay off adequate doctors and introduce myself to you as a male, but female, because gender and gender are separated. You can see that in the light of this law. It's just amazing. We have no definition of this term. Let me tell you something else about the church. The church wrote, the church speaks, or preaches, but essentially does not violate the laws, does not interfere with certain gatherings. I'm afraid this is where the term of the privileged majority is used, but what if the minority is made privileged? You've had a concrete example, as the average cinema viewer and visitor of Festo, I was in a position to be interrupted by a film show by gay activists, for who knows what reason, which I don't care about as the average cinema viewer. They violated public order and peace and did not answer. Is that a privileged minority? I'm against every violation of public order and peace. What if I went on some kind of performance of some kind of gay group and tried to interrupt it in a certain way, for a protest, for a certain reason? What would happen then? I'd end up in jail for sure. The average citizen of Serbia would end up in prison. What happened to them? No, they got publicity in the media, they got encouragement both from the minister and from the secretary of state, by saying, we'll go to gay parades, we support etc. What did Serbia expect? By the way, it's not a burning reminder, Angela Merkel said the other day that she had nothing since EU enlargement. To quote -- Czech Foreign Minister Karel Svancerberg says -- no real progress has been made to lift visas for citizens of the Western Balkans, i.e. Schengen has nothing to do with it. Do you think this law, the passing of this law, is going to be a step forward towards the white Schengen? Prove it. I'm telling you that this is a big lie again, one big con, one big scam, such as 200,000 new jobs, 70% pensions from the average profit, no one even remembers it anymore, it's important that PUPS sits in the government and shuts down about everything, that Serbia has taken part of the territory, that EULEX has entered, without debate in the Assembly and in the Government, walked, walked into the territory of Kosovo. There is no Boing in Utva, there is no Mercedes in Serbia, there is no share of 1,000 euros, but it is important that we increase the rights of homosexuals, lesbians and transsexuals and I don't know who. Serbia's bowel cramps, Serbia's empty refrigerators, and our ministers will go to gay parades. It is now finally shown and proved that this government really cannot be helped by God, that God has raised his hands from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15592	The word has the minister of human and minority rights, Mr Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15593	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, is my intention that, when the amendments are discussed, we enter into a concrete debate and clarification, because I believe that the debate on amendments is actually a debate on the most well-intentioned one, which is that if there is a need to improve the concrete text of the law. My report actually now has a desire to remove any misunderstandings or dilemmas. It's just that the debate is going in a certain direction when it comes to facts. The fact is that Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic participated in the negotiations. That is what I testify, my colleague Rasim Ljajic will testify, as can high church dignitaries who participated in these talks. So he was consulted and he was there. The fact is that much of the dissatisfaction that churches and traditional religious communities had in connection with this law was removed in a direct conversation, by explaining what the problematic provisions meant for them. We held this kind of conversation for ten days, on the one hand at the level of experts, and in the end, finally, in the composition, as regards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I repeat, counterpart Rasim Ljajic, colleague Bogoljub Šijakovic and myself. If anyone has a dilemma about it, there was also a statement from Tanjug, and a statement from the Serbian Orthodox Church, where the meeting was held. Another thing, I repeat, this law does not introduce rights. These rights already exist, they are only in one specific way additionally protected, where the violation of these rights, in addition to the Criminal Law, where it is protected, is now further protected by the regulation that discrimination is involved. That's what lawyers need to know and it's fair to say, extra protection. Finally, I understand that it is always an introduction, and against it itself, the introduction of a new organ, in this case the trustee, is at risk of increasing the administration. The concept is the following, as it has been so far, that, by respecting the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, it is first prescribed by an internal competition, and in this case there is no concern that there will be an increase in the administration, but that there will be redistribution of people working in the state administration. As far as the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is concerned, we remained literally at the same level as when it was a service for human and minority rights. We don't have any new employees. We have people the government has appointed as assistant ministers and state secretaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15594	The People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15595	The Honorable President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respect for the principle of equality is today seen as the moral imperative of organized society. The rules on the prohibition of discrimination include all international human rights documents, as well as the rest, and the constitution of almost all countries of the world. The principle of equality is also devoted to Article 1. Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the UN of 1948, which contains the following words: all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Starting from these general principles, a comprehensive legal regime for the prohibition of discrimination should meet two basic objectives: the first one to determine what discrimination is, or what it is forbidden to do, is the second one to offer injured effective mechanisms of legal protection against discrimination. It is, therefore, in this law with the trustee secured, as is the right of every citizen of this country to, in the event that all legal means are exhausted before the domestic judiciary, address the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, whose jurisdiction we have recognised, in contrast, from Russia, which has not yet signed. This is a requirement of civilization, not just of the European Union, which was created on Christian grounds. Approximately 30 countries in Europe have passed a law against discrimination or equality laws, which prohibit all forms of discrimination. Other countries prohibit discrimination by their individual laws. The only countries that do not know, for example, the free sexual orientation are Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and Cyprus. As far as registered partnerships of matching couples are concerned, they are possible in around 20 countries of Europe. Too bad we don't have a law in front of us on his original version, which was equally good and equally comprehensive, because now we have a debate that seems to be living outside this House. It is a pity that the government subsequently amenated the ex post mind and prolonged the law-making that this country needs. Why is this law necessary for this country? Because, for example, the Roma group was banned from swimming in the pool by the owners of the pool; because, for example, the taxi driver refused to transport an old woman who was having difficulty moving, with arguments that she did not want to waste time on her; because before she started her work relationship, the employer ordinarily recommended not to become pregnant in the next two years; because the owner of a prominent club in Belgrade banned the access of the person with disabilities, claiming that the other guests would feel uncomfortable in her presence; because the homosexual was left out of work because he was gay for his director. That's why we need this law and everything I said happened in Serbia. Seven days later, the government has led Serbia astray and for who knows which time it is very easy to sell a lie as the truth here and that in fact this proposed law is about gay marriages, which is certainly not true. I've been listening very carefully these days to the attitudes of religious communities, social groups of football fans who respect, as they say, nature. Nature is not an easy category to understand, whose understanding depends on access to that concept. So, dialectic or God's will. But who understands nature in a way that it's natural for a woman to be in a kitchen, mental patients in a crazy shirt, homosexuals beaten, and foreigners suspicious. There's no gay lobby here and there's no gay lobby here. This is where the right to diversity is defended. Being different is, ladies and gentlemen, the right of an individual, and the obligation of the majority is to respect, tolerate and accept as a fact. And not only that, but also to give him the attention he needs. What a beautiful word tolerance is. Being tolerant means, for starters, to admit another. I am a Christian of Orthodox faith, and as such I am not proud, I am not vain, for no faith permits this sin. I'm not at risk, unlike those who are burned at the stake because of their differences. Also, at the end of the 1930s, a social group became a political party, and later the government, which became a member of the 175th Penal Code during World War II, killed more than 50,000 homosexuals in concentration camps and came more than 10 million different, in terms of political attitude, belonging to different religious communities, peoples and skin color. In an analysis of our Serbian reality, we must start with the postulate of the state. That is, therefore, the basic postulate that all people are equal before the law and on the other hand we have a postulate of a church that says - all people are equal before God. Where in Serbia do we have a global and spiritual date? I'm going to set a known example. The bishop of Pahomia was not responsible for the sexual abuse of four boys, and Ilarion, a former elder of the Hopovo monastery, was not responsible for leading the boy to illicit sexual acts. In the process game, so often seen by the Supreme Court of Serbia, obsolescence occurred, so the state did not define itself according to the serious crimes of gayism. Why do we give priority to solving earth’s affairs to the state? Because sanctions have a preemptive character, unlike sanctions for light combustion in hell. Why should the state regulate every form of discrimination? Because we don't want to live in hell because we're different, and yet we're just people who are equal to God. The relation of the topics around which we must have a consensus is inadmissible, and until consensus, the moment of the victory of reason, which was not even when Christ was crucified on the cross, this symbol of equality, and the result of victory of diversity -- will continue to be those who, just like him, will lead the injured, offended, lonely, abandoned and exiled. I will be very happy to stand at the head of the disfellowshipped, whether they are homosexuals, whether they are sick, mental patients, persons with disabilities (President: Mr Markovic, do not throw them out of place. ) the old and the powerless and all the others, who complained to the state or prayed to God. I will be against those who benegne topics, the statutes of Vojvodina, that is to say, in public to make the impression that it is a new Kosovo, in the same way that they replace it -- that in the law on the ban on discrimination, it is about gay marriages. I will be against those whose voice is heard louder than godly devotion, louder than the prayers of the Serbian patriarch, Mr. Paul, whom they bury alive before he became a saint. I say this to you as an Orthodox Christian, neither homophobic, nor clerophilic, ordinary citizen, respecting the canons, as well as the laws that we have passed, all different but all equal, as is one of the basic mottos of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15596	I thank Mr. Ivanji. He has the word Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević from the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15597	I mentioned a group or a group of people and organizations, which appears very intensively in our premises, in the areas of the Balkans, Europe, and around the world. Indeed, their action takes the form of a pandemic. Many countries, many organisations, such as the EU, the Council of Europe and various other organisations, have come up with certain opinions. However, here in our country, executive power, the highest authority absolutely does not accept certain movements, certain tendencies, certain actions, certain totalitarianity and destruction that leave behind these organizations. I'm only going to talk about this law about three members -- Article 18, Article 21 and Article 11, because it's really very little time to talk about everything we have to say about this law. This law on discrimination, as well as the Law on NGOs, has produced three concepts here in the Assembly itself. One concept was proposed by the government, another concept appears by one part of the ruling coalition and the third concept, quite sharp, but very good, appears by the opposition. It says that if we have three concepts of one law in one congregation, imagine how many concepts are outside this congregation? This means that the public debate was not the best that could be done and that the minister obviously had to give in under various pressures and satisfy many wishes. Then we get contradictory laws, laws that are contradictory in both our members and our views. I will speak well through certain examples and ask even more questions than answers, or some questions will be answered to some previously asked questions - you can conclude for yourself. When I was talking about the Law on NGOs, and I was talking about the organisations of the sectarian type, I mentioned that the European Union, I even quoted certain members, that on 29 February 1996 the European Union adopted the first Resolution to protect people, protect individuals, to freedom of religion and to abuse by sectarian organisations. I will now quote one member from the second EU Resolution, which was adopted on 4.9.2003, where he says: At a plenary session dedicated to the state of fundamental human rights, freedom and opinion, consciousness and religion, Article 35 is required - it is again required to make it known to the Member States to oppose the dangerous movements of sectual character, which threatens the psychological or physical integrity of a person and invites them to apply members of their guilty civil law in the fight against the illegal activities of sectarian groups. It is known that executive power literally closes its eyes to this problem. Certain institutions, certain secretaries, social work centres, parish homes, police, security services, mental hospitals, so to speak, this problem has been detected. They detected it and are trying to break through a Chinese wall, which is between the government and these services that I am now, the service, the secretariats and the institutions that I have now listed, in order to make a strategy. However, the ministries, such as the ministry of religion, health, education, security, justice, absolutely refuse to engage, as their colleagues who have done so seriously in the EU -- to engage in solving this problem. Now I'd like to start with some questions. Many people, many missionaries from various organizations, come and live here. We had a guru, which appeared in November 2007, but before him came his studies. His teaching, which we heard through his interviews and his statements, was registered in 170 countries around the world. This is one brochure - Art of life, breath to health and joy. It is about a pseudo-jurisdictionist organization, pseudo-jurisdictional learning, which is shared and implemented at the Faculty of Political Sciences as an anti-stress programme. 4,000 dinars have been charged, although this guru boasts that his organization is a humanitarian character and that he does everything for free. When it starts from the beginning and comes to an end, it ends up in the cover of yoga, meaning a religion of Hinduism. The guru came and revealed to us something that we were trying to recognize - some homes for old people, according to it, to institutions for implementing certain sanctions, or prisons, where through certain psychological workshops prisoners are freed from excessive aggression, from stress and other things. Something's been telling us, I'm talking about events two or three years ago, that it's about the Far East. The guru comes and what it reveals, watch out for this -- the famous guru, known for the combination of breathing and yoga techniques, which achieves inner peace, will meet with the president of the Serbian Parliament, the heads of parliament groups and deputy ministers on Monday to agree on a larger implementation of his foundation's programme in domestic institutions. That's how we recognize what's going on here and who's coming to us. Of course, there were some ministers, some of them didn't even know what they were involved in. They were at some exhibitions, I don't know, the National Bank. There they attended certain Hindu prayer rituals performed by this guru. The next question, the next organization that exists, is very intense. We meet her at our door, by buses, by hospitals, by markets and by schools. The director of one elementary school in Starar complains that he can't "Jehovah's Witnesses" drive out of the school yard with the assistance of the police. They're standing on the sidewalk outside the school yard and they can't drive them away from their children. Watch what kind of organization it is, it's such an organization that even the Ministry of Faith couldn't register religious organizations, but they exist. This is special medical attention signed by every member of Jehovah’s Witnesses, and I will only read you two or three attitudes and show you what it is that is not good. "I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses. Under no circumstances do I want to receive a transfusion of red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, or plasma, even if healthcare professionals feel it is necessary to stay alive. I don't agree to have my blood taken and stored to receive it again later. I don't want my life to be extended if it's found out from a medical point of view that my situation is hopeless, etc." Isn't this suicide on hold, if anyone needs it for surgery, car accident, anything? We have over ten cases in Serbia in the past 20 years where underage people have lost their lives because their parents have not allowed blood or because in their health books it was just this that they do not want to receive it. This is a few releases from one of our famous mental hospitals, from Lazarevic, it's about a man who spent 26 years in a cult called "transcential meditation", who has his own political party, which was very active in the 1990s, but still exists today. So we're talking about a health disorder so far, and now we're coming up with suicide letters from 15-year-olds, written on a napkin with a style of black rose on the front. I received it from my parents on the day that the Law on Churches and Religious Communities was passed here in the Serbian Parliament in 2006. Is that what we need? How do we sanction those people who commit a crime like this in the New Banovs? Many concubines have reported to defend the one who butchered this child with a motor saw in the bathtub. They said he wasn't a member of any cult, that he wasn't a member of some learning, that he was mentally disturbed and something like that. But the officers who did the reconnaissance, until his lawyer came in, they talked to him perfectly normal and nice. He showed them over 30 imaginary shops to cover up the crime he committed, from hiding weapons, from tearing up bodies and stuff like that. We are coming to complain to the court of municipalities, signed of course by the President of the Court, to protect them from certain sectarian organizations. I'm saying, so you have the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Faith, says, come on, please, so you can't even mention it there. In Article 11, we come to the fact that certain people are literally called not to be allowed to speak information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their personal characteristics in public journals and other publications, or meetings and places available to the public. Does this mean that teachers, educators, cops and coaches and other people will not be able to educationally influence certain phenomena in society, that each of these marginalized groups will be able to complain about them to a certain trustee? I'm talking about what's going on, and that's what my colleagues mentioned, that they always announce two or three steps ahead. You give us anesthesia and you say - it's just for now, it has to, it's Europe etc. However, all these groups announce two or three steps in advance, which is what we fear, and who has been bitten by a snake and a lizard is afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15598	Thank you. Mr. Dragoljub Micunović, MP. Here you go, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15599	Dear colleagues, with great care, I followed the course of the debate, not only here, but also what is happening in public. I must say immediately that there are certain surprises in which there has been so much excitement of the public and such a fierce controversy that is being led here as well. What characterizes some debates, I watch TV shows all in a row, we can say that often one deficit of thought appears which is compensated by the surplus of passion, but in this way we fail to come to some real conclusions. This law is someone who, how, I don't know, has been reduced exclusively to a debate about homosexualism. By reducing this law, we're doing damage to the citizens, and I'd say debate itself. This is the law above all about freedom. That's what this is about. Freedom has always caused controversy. Why? Because it was distributed differently. The freest man in the world, with the greatest amount of freedom, is the greatest tyrant, because he can do whatever he wants. Then freedom has been partialized to some part, the masters can't, but the slaves can't, and the others can't. Then men can, but women can't, etc. So it's always been about how freedom is distributed, but it's our job to make freedom universal. No matter what anyone wants, wants or speaks, or has prejudice, the walk of freedom is unconstitutional, humanizing humanity too. Whoever doesn't believe it, and the one with minimal education, can remember what happened in human history. Human history is the scene of terrible crimes over everything anyone who had the power to get to. When we talk about eternal themes, eternal morality, eternal dogmas, then we have to make sure that we really take into that conto and everything that's happened. If someone calls for a thousand-year tradition, does he put in his conto everything that's been done by then? Do we know, and we know, it's for example. For three centuries burned 800,000 women in the name of the belief that they were witches, because God drove the woman out of heaven and she's guilty, and she's going to pay? It's one fact that happened in history, we know that. Someone's gonna say it only happened in the west. It's mass happening in the west, that's a fact, but when we look at it, we'll be able to find it in our tradition, to a lesser extent, but we'll find it. Whoever reads the Mountain Wreath, remembers that woman they declared a witch, speaks of it. When I see that people are sensitive to the equality of tradition, to say in favour of the fact that Bishop Peter First passed the law to punish priests who persecute witches in villages, because if there were a hunger or not enough children born, then they usually find some poor old lady to accuse her of it. So prejudice was infinite, but our task, for those who care about it, is to seek further to improve freedom. I answered the word, and I'm very interested in this whole thing, for the simple reason that it's connected to two other concepts, with tolerance and democracy. Those two things go together. If it hadn't been for tolerance, Europe would have been wiped out in religious wars. It is a great credit for tolerance for making peace and democracy possible. All countries that have introduced religious tolerance very soon and progressed very quickly. It was also done with England, America, with a good part of Europe. So tolerance is crucial. Why is tolerance important? He spoke nicely to his colleague Ivanji just a moment ago, tolerance is patience, it verb "tolerale" Latin and says, so we have to suffer that there is someone else. The intolerance is, then, I won't stand for someone because Roma is, I won't stand for someone because she's a woman, I won't stand for someone because they belong to another people, I won't put up with it because it's chromium etc. So, "I won't put up with it" is an element of intolerance and every source of discrimination. That's the key question we have to touch. We have to put up with each other here, no matter what different opinions. Many teachers of humanity, to mention some - Loka, Walter, Mila, whomever you want, had the courage in times of great intolerance and discrimination to claim the right to another, to suffer another. It's just how it's progressing, everything else is unnecessary. Then why did we bring it all down to this? Are gay people really putting someone at risk here? Do they go and break? We are very often inclined, it is now a cultural pattern of a tradition and we have to take care of it and improve. He's got tolerance for the bullyes, too. I remember when there were laws against hooligans at the games, well, let's not do that, they're kids, we're not gonna do anything about it. In Serbia, where women are beaten by very learned and intellectual husbands, what happens to children, their lawlessness, etc., it all comes down to her being his wife, those are his children, we won't get too involved in it. We take tolerance as a basic position if we want to develop a peaceful and democratic society. There's a lot of prejudice in this whole story. It's not easy to convince people to accept otherwise, but if we remember that by the 19th century it was slavery and agriculture, that the Russian Spachia had the right to do whatever he wanted with the woman and the peasant, and to sell it, that the slaves in America were treated as moving things, sold them, etc. To today the goal of a village male would be to become president of the great Russia or one descendant of blacks to become president of the state, and until yesterday it was unimaginable. That's mankind's progress. We must also deal with those whose progress is not always in line with their prejudices. By the 20th century, women had no right to vote in many countries. This was also the case in Serbia, they were unable to make contracts, and then it was thought and always called for some eternal right, to some tradition, that it could not be changed. Of course, that walk of freedom is about privileges. It is not by chance that the constantly defined privileged classes or layers struggled to keep things as they are, because that distribution of privileges is about one desire that is related to ideology to survive forever. There's nothing for all time. Whoever knows history will see that in history things have changed in many ways, that marriages were different, there were different communities, different views of out-of-marriage relationships, etc. It's the same thing about homosexuality. Do I need to mention to you how many famous people thought it was more or less a matter of time and insignificantness that they wouldn't get involved in? The problem is in the following, which in times of great intolerance and discrimination, any child who would not show enough physical qualities at birth the Spartans threw, but from Spartans to Hitler's Eugenika, by which a pure race, as he had prescribed, is a huge field, 2,500 years of discrimination between people who were in any way different from what he had prescribed as their position. Today we have a political situation due to frequent elections, permanent campaigns. This permanent political campaign or the fight for votes often results in too much passion, and we pay little attention to the arguments. This law we pass has brought all the lands, even those who have not passed it will surely bring it. It's not a problem, to be understood immediately, about the dangers of our society by homosexuals or any group that exists there. Many countries also view traditional or non-traditional churches and sects, etc. Of course, there are different sects, there are satanic, destructive and there are very dangerous sects that have also a political background. That's a fact. But there are sects that are completely benign, and they have the right to think differently. Walter brings out the sect that was the Quaker sect, which gave us very big people. One of them, Thomas Payne, wrote The Right Man and participated in two revolutions in France and Germany. And the Quakers say, we don't need a tribute, we don't need a baptism, we're born as God's people, we don't need priests because we can turn to God ourselves, they were famous for that, and that's why we don't take off our hat ever and anywhere so it doesn't turn out to be respected and enslaved by some authority. It may seem ridiculous to us now, however you wish, but these Quakers have made a democratic America. So let's not even all sects because we're going to find an example of dangerous sects. We are in a society that we call transition or whatever you want, but we have a constant struggle between reform and restoration. Let's not let it happen to us that when we come across some obstacle, either political, ideological or economic, then we're not looking for scales to jump the obstacle. We're not often looking for a way around, left or right, but we're going back. It seems the most comfortable and the fact is it costs the least, but it costs time. We must live in the spirit of time. This is a unique world. There are world rights and let's not make mystifications where they're not there. It's not true that there's been a major violent attack on the SPC, I haven't heard it, or seen it in the media. So today you have a policy article against tolerance, etc. Anything is possible, but how did this storm come about? It came in such a way that a group of members or representatives of religious communities objected to this law. She did it late. It would be much better if it were, but who is now guilty and why it wasn't and if there were any of these conversations, we hear from the ministers talking together with the Minister of Faith, etc., but it was withdrawn. So it was a step for the government to hear these objections, talk about it and return one law. This created a major problem, and it was precisely these laws that spoke of freedom or tolerance toward homosexuals. Everything else is somewhere, as far as I understood the objections, the rest was on the side. Let's not let because of one atmosphere, which may have other backgrounds ideological, political, etc., that one law that we need, which protects those most vulnerable, in some way becomes suspicious or that we are having a big debate about it. If we imagine only one picture of whether there is discrimination or not, one little Roma girl, who is in that chromium, lives somewhere under the bridge, there is a concentration of all discrimination that can be conscious. It is discriminated against because it is a Roma woman living under the bridge, and the question now is which side of Belgrade or the Sheep wants to receive them in its vicinity, etc. She is discriminated against because she is a child, these children often beg and in various ways are discriminated against, as are many other children. We have laws to protect children's rights, but they don't come true. Children get beat up, they get neglected, in various ways they terrorize. Third thing, she's discriminated against being a woman. It's a whole other treatment that she's going to have in her life because she's a woman and she needs to fight the team. It is discriminated against because it is chromium, therefore in its midst it will be somewhat underestimated. In this one picture, which everyone's conscience must arouse, you have a concentration of possible human injustices and horrors that a human creature can bring. There was another argument mentioned here, under one term, archaic, called the white plague. The people who use it are obviously not aware of discrimination against women, which is this: they see women as some means of breeding, so the woman is responsible for no more soldiers to wage war and she is accused of white plague. The white plague is a dangerous word that is introduced here as the greatest disease possible, but Natalie depends on standards, living conditions, the sanctification of humans. That depends on the birth rate. So I don't want to convince anyone here. Prejudice is hard and terrible, and sometimes the effort to approach arguments is in vain. A great philosopher, Hegel, speaking in the Encyclopaedia of Philosopheric Sciences, speaks even of prejudices and the way one with prejudices defends himself. At the customer's market, he says, "Listen, this vegetable of yours is a fairy tale," and the grocery says, "what a fairy tale, and what your mother used to go with the officers, and what your grandmother and the French did when they came in," and the subject is being moved to a national, treasonous plan, etc., and it's a simple vegetable. So that replacement isn't good, it doesn't help arguments. Let's see if our society is so threatened that it will tolerate different sexual orientations of people, whether we as a society will fail. That's the key question. I welcome this law, because it is the direction of that insidious walk towards the development of freedom and tolerance, and democracy. There is no country that has progressed without previous tolerance becoming its highest value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15600	Thank you, Mr. Professor, for the exposé. Mr. Micunovic's statement lacked offensive expressions aimed at any individual and parliamentary group, so there is no basis for replication. Mr. Martinovic, come in. There is no basis for replication, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know which word to choose, I am personally ashamed to sit in the National Assembly with people who can say these words. Once as a communist, today as an DS feather, Mr. Micunovic is always in the same front, against Serbia and against Serbs. Mr. Micunovic, these images are evidence that Serbia is not concerned with the evil, primitive and corrupt Orthodox fundamentalists chasing poor and unhappy homosexuals. The matter is much worse and quite the opposite of what you represent. You laugh, you laugh, you frown, and so forth. This is a painful and sad truth that you applaud. You applaud the failure of Serbia and the disappearance of the Serbian people. However, Mr. Micunovic knows, as an old communist, it doesn't matter that there will be no Serbs in Serbia, we will settle the Chinese. That policy is being implemented today. You see, Mr. Micunovic, this is "poor and persecuted" homosexual Boban Stojanovic, who dressed up as a coat and mocked Orthodox nuns, gives this man the state of Serbia from the 2009 budget to 250,000 dinars to mock in the most brutal manner of the SPC, to call Serbian bishops fascists. On the Serbian Orthodox blog, which is located on site B 92, members of Quiria and Predrag Zeljkovic, presented photographs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15602	Mr. Martinovic, you have been speaking for more than two minutes, and you have not called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or a specific member. In accordance with the position of Article 7 of our 100th Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. The time you've been talking about fits in at that time that's scheduled for your MP group at this point. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15603	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, are nice to talk about tolerance in parliament. What Professor Micunovic said about tolerance serves both him and this parliament. So what our country needs and our society is to build tolerance. What you just did, Madam President, is not in line with what was being discussed here. So don't contribute to tolerance in this House. What I want to say to Mr. Micunović, when I entered politics in 1989-1990, I read your books and when we talk about tolerance, you won't mind me, I may have made a mistake, it seems to me that John Locke has defined that tolerance threshold. You weren't quite right and quite correct there. You said here that there are many who come out here and criticise with different basics of the law, that there is a deficit of arguments and surplus of emotion. That's exactly what this is about. This bill has been surprised and put in a procedure with a great deficit of arguments and a great surplus of emotion. What made me come out here for a pay phone is the next thing, you said no one attacked the SPC, and that's actually that tolerance threshold that you should have paid attention to, because the hack was headed for the SPC. It is fortunate that all religious communities had a unique attitude. I can imagine what would have happened if the SPC had been left alone on this issue. The Hijka has been going on for 10 days, and the problem is in the government and the problem is in the resolution ministries, which in the public debate did not call on religious communities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15604	Mr. Nikolic, it's been two minutes, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. You have used, or abused, and reported to the Rules of Procedure, and in fact you have a dialogue with Mr Micunović, who is not at this stage of work provided for by the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. This time is coming at the time that is scheduled for your parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15605	Thank you. You're preventing freedom of mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15606	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ognjen Mihajlovic. Please, so I don't continue to express these measures, to tell which member is involved and to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15607	Article 104, especially the part relating to the dignity of this congregation. The DS has defended this law, more specifically the need to pass this law to unfounded and absolutely incorrect quasiarguments, which are all absolutely used in one daily-political need, the need to bring the EU closer. For the sake of this daily political need, the DS is ready to sacrifice history, even to offend the Serbian people. Insulting the account of the Serb people, and as a national MP, I am obliged to defend his dignity, and therefore I believe that Article 104 is injured, is in the next. It states here that in the SPC, in the territory of which the Serbian Orthodox people live, women under some kind of medal, what should I call a witch. Never in Serbian tradition was that witch persecution. If something like this happened, it wasn't, so to speak, under SPC's command. These were individual cases of persecution, but not murders in certain teeth, villages that were far from civilization, absolutely lonely cases that had absolutely nothing to do with religion and what the SPC confessed had nothing to do with it. It's, of course, especially the Catholic Church, but to be perfectly honest, the biggest victims of women under a witch's company happened in the Nordic countries, where these things were managed by the Protestant Church, in fact by a few. For the sake of truth, we have to say it. The Serbian people have no need for such a law. In his tradition, the Serbian people have long built tolerance for the groups that treat the law. So tolerance exists and these things aren't broken, they're not susceptible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15608	Mr. Ambassador, it's been two minutes. And you abused the Rules of Procedure. Namely, you used the complete content, there was a dialogue with Mr. Micunović, at this stage, and please once again, I remind you all, this is not the way to work. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, or you have misused the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning measure, and the time you have spoken enters at the time provided for by your parliamentary group. Mrs. Pop-Lazic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15609	I may have committed a crime, and you're killing democracy. You won't let us defend our own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15610	I respect the Rules of Procedure which the parliamentary majority voted. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15611	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I don't get a warning after two minutes, I'll tell you right away why I went out for a pay phone. So, I wanted to remind you that there is a Article 106th position of the 1st indent 7 and that I am really protesting that here are the three MPs of the opposition from the DSS and the SRS who issued the warning. It's up to you what kind of atmosphere will be in this House. So, you've had the opportunity to at the moment when you see two minutes, and you'll let someone speak here and concentrate on the content of their exposure, and there's only two minutes available, not quite able to track that time up, so you say, it's over two minutes, please bring it to an end or finish. And not because it's been two minutes, and he's staying a few seconds behind this pay phone, you're giving a warning measure, and it doesn't say anywhere here that that's the reason for the warning. At least show that political tolerance, if you're pushing for tolerance, show it. If you say that this law is not a law on discrimination, as Professor Micunovic wanted to point out, that it is a law on tolerance, show it in action. Don't let us talk one way or the other. There's one rule here, that's where the other rules apply. Respect your colleagues a little bit and understand, Madam President, that you are only a speaker, that all of you here are fully in rights and obligations equal to all of us, and don't make a line of school out of this House. Believe me, we won't agree to that. We will find a way to resist you and fully unearth your position, your relationship with the MPs, your conduct, to defile the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15612	Mrs Pop-Lazic, I have not been able to understand how this is a injured Rules of Procedure, since Article 106, which you are referring to, paragraph 7, says - if other procedures violate the order of the session or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Micunovic did not violate order at the session, nor did he act against the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Personally, when two minutes pass and if the MP does not explain the reason for his report in accordance with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give a warning because he has abused himself. I warn you, because the next step for you would be taking words. I don't want to see you acting as deputy head of the parliamentary group, without warning to give you that measure. That's the measure I'm going to have to take in case your behavior continues to be in the trend that started today. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15613	Madam President, that's exactly why I signed up for Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, and Rule 31, because the speakers who were reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, whom you, in my deep confidence, and in public opinion, have, for no reason, made any remarks. Mrs. Comic distracted the SRS MPs by getting them from the vice president's post before they came out to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to explain why they came forward. It's not the first time that the vice president of the DS Parliament does that, subflinging you, really inexcusable. You have a deputy secretary sitting next to you, and you know exactly what it says in the Rules of Procedure and how you should treat the MPs of the SRS. If Mrs. Komic is more important this unfortunate man mentioned earlier, some Boban Stojanovic, than nuns and monks with KIM who are at risk, according to counterpart Ragush, some will be tried by the Pećka Patriarchi, some will take care of how to treat the elderly, the sick, the disabled, the disabled. You know, any pride is paid in one way or another. That is why I warn you, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, to bring order to Gordana Komic, otherwise I will not be in office, in a position to sit next to you, at the post of vice president, perfectly normal according to the Rules of Procedure, to perform a function entrusted to me by the list of SRS-Dr. Vojislav Seselj and Vojislav Seselj personally. As far as you're concerned, I think you're aware of the fact that the Assembly has entered a single phase of complete dictatorship. You're doing it, as far as I can see, insulated on the side, above all by the MPs of the DS. As far as Dragoljub Micunovic is concerned, I would not be giving the gentlemen radicals at all (President: Time. That's what's so important. One day, the Assembly of the Greater Citizens dedicated that Mr. Micunovic [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15614	Ms. Jovanovic, the vice presidents are under obligation and is in line with the Rules of Procedure to help the president conduct the session. Mrs. Comic does not interfere with the work, but rather constructively helps run this session. I ask all MPs not to comment or, as you say, do not earn those who are behind the pay phone. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15615	Article 104. I would really like to address Mr. Micunovic in an extremely tolerated atmosphere. Mr. Micunović, in your presentation... (President: Mr. Myaljevic, you cannot address at this stage... Here, I won't talk to him. (President: Continue. ) My exposure did not refer to those sects and those groups or sectarian organisations that were pacifist, those that organized to smell flowers, which organized in an ecological sense to clean the shores, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15616	Mr. Myaljevic, you cannot speak at this stage of the session and have a dialogue with Mr. Micunovic. Thank you. You'll do that later. You have time for that. At this stage, you can't. Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15617	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although this anti-discrimination law is one of the conditions for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, LDP is a much more important fact for us that this law is the beginning of European values in Serbia's social life. Another important fact about this law is the possibility of its implementation, which will depend most on you, members of the ruling majority, or the Serbian government. Why is it important for us from the LDP to pass this law, as a roof law? For the simple reason that the practice has shown that some of the provisions of some of the laws we have previously passed are not applicable or not respected. What, Mr. Minister, means the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities if in Serbia, in particular in the Sandzak area, there are municipalities where minority language cannot be introduced into official use, although I have written to you twice about it, you have not even responded. What does it mean, Mr. Minister, if there is a possibility in Serbia that in the state authorities, specifically in the MUP, members of national minorities are employed, if this does not apply to some members of the national minorities, primarily members of Bosniaks, who have ended up a criminal and have not received any valid response from the MUP. And as a MP, I haven't received a reply from Minister Dacic in three months, although I have writtenly asked a parliamentary question on December 9th 2008. What does the law on churches and religious communities mean to us in Serbia if some of the governments of the Republic of Serbia, or some state bodies, are constantly discriminating the Islamic Community of Serbia and even the Islamic Community in Serbia is not informed, nor is it asked about the bill? What does the law on bankruptcy and judicial decisions for workers mean, for example, Ras shoe factories, plants in Tutin, which cannot exercise their rights assigned to them. As we have just heard, poverty and prejudice are one of the basic reasons why discrimination is taking place in a society. I think the Serbian government must do something to prevent this discrimination, not just to react when this discrimination is seen. Here I think of the problem of poverty, i.e. those decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which directly affect the increase of poverty in the areas of the Republic of Serbia where members of different peoples live. How else do you explain the fact that on the same day it was announced that it was, for example, The municipality of Priboj, where the average income for January 10,800 dinars, has been removed from the list of undeveloped municipalities and has also been announced that it has received zero dinars from NIP funds for the third year in a row. The creation of a society in which an individual is at the top is one of the main objectives of the LDP. That is why we think that this and this law is necessary, but that this and this law are only the beginning of the introduction of European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15618	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Pelevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15619	Dear citizens, Madam President, respected colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, it is good that all traditional religious communities, not only the Serbian Orthodox Church, have opposed this law, or the first draft of the law. I feel it would be a real hack at the Serbian Orthodox Church. It is clear that the Islamic community, the Roman Catholic Church, Judaism, even Buddhism, are against homosexualism as perverse or painful phenomena, as some religious communities characterise it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15620	Excuse me, Mr. Pelevic. Mr. Martinovic, you are authorized by this point, there is neither the president nor the deputy president of your parliamentary group. Since inappropriate sounds and beatings come from your parliamentary group, I warn you that I will give you a measure in case you do not agree with your colleagues to stop this distraction, please. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15621	The Bible of the Old Testament, to which Christians are called, and Jews, and Muslims, openly condemns homosexuality. Giving the same rights to homosexuals as normal people is an open discrimination against all religions, Jews, Muslims, and Christians, who teach all the Holy Scriptures that Lord God has destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah because of homosexual illness. There are several organisations operating in Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, homosexualism, as a private matter, is not a problem. It's the choice of every man or every woman and it's not all kinky and sick if it's just a private matter. When they make their associations that impose their kinky tendencies on other normal people, then it's a problem, then it's a problem. Let me give you an example of a few of these associations, of which one association is indeed, I would say, anti-Serb and anti-Christian in any case. On the site B92, members of Quiria and Mr. Dragan Azdajković presented photos of condoms that were placed in the form of crosses, sexual aids in the form of a Saint-Save cross, and their president in the text "Vazalin for Uroš" on the Kviri block site B92 openly called for rape of convicts in prisons. The president of the community, Boban Stojanovic, openly campaigns to secede KIM under the slogan "Kosovo is the neighbour of Serbia". That is why I can openly say that it is an anti-Serbian association that really wants to separate KIM from Serbia in words -- Kosovo is the neighbour of Serbia. Neither of these events was responded by the State nor the Prosecutor's Office. So that this law doesn't come down to just a few members talking about homosexualism, I'm going to try to point out that the law is incomplete. He's not talking at all about discrimination against wartime military people and veterans. We already have, we adopted, that is, the majority adopted in 2006 the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, but there is not a single word in this law about wartime wartime people with no war, especially wartime wartime wartime wars from 1991 to the war on KIM. Guards of wartime disabled and veterans? They just want not to be discriminated against, to have the same rights as all people who are healthy, and they especially need to deserve greater rights, and they really shouldn't feel discrimination in any way. We are witnessing that, last year, national pensions have been allocated to worthy athletes, scientific workers, cultural workers, and that is commendable and that is fine. Don't wartime disabled children of fallen fighters, families of fallen fighters have the same right to enjoy national pensions? They seek only a minimum of respect for what they have given their country, according to what they have given to defend Serbian territories and the Serbian people. It is a kind of discrimination that has not been processed in this law, and that is why we, from the Forward Serbia Parliament Club, have proposed this by amendment, and I hope it will be adopted. Furthermore, this law does not address the ban on discrimination against refugees and displaced persons at all. I am particularly talking about displaced persons with KIM, as well as refugees from Croatia, i.e. Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. I've personally visited over 30 camps of displaced persons from KIM. I call them camps because most of them are fenced with barbed wire. Once a day, they receive portions from the river, very unquality and bad food. Their children don't have money for books for first, second and third grade primary school. They get along and bend as they can and know it, waiting for the day they come back to their homes, the day that's been waiting very, very long, for more than ten years. That is why we, from our Parliament club, have proposed that Serbia and the SNS also be banned from discrimination against displaced persons and refugees living in Serbia, because they are indeed discriminated against in every way. I ask you to consider this amendment to our parliamentary club, too, because I think the law will be better and more complete. Thank you for your attention. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15622	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15623	Ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to say that the G 17 Plus MP group, the G 17 Plus Party and I, ourselves, have always supported and supported those laws that are in some way related to our EU accession, or are bound by international standards and international law. I have to say, this time, it's certainly not the basic reason why we're going to support this law. I have to say that I feel defeated by the fact that our country is only now, in a way, because it is a condition, a law like this, because this law is one of the basic laws governing every society. This law is a law that asks some basic questions and gives some basic answers about ourselves and about what kind of society we want to build. Have we really become a dehumanized society in which everyone cares for themselves, a society in which we are not ready to care for weaker, less numerous, discriminated against and threatened? Are we really a society where we'd rather let someone jump off the bridge just because we're in a hurry because we're tired? Are we a society that wants to develop through xenophobia, homophobia and various other phobias, terrified, frightened and closed society, or are we a society that needs to be open, that needs to pursue the modern values and freedom of each individual? Are we a society that sees as its primary value a free, educated individual who develops in accordance with his potential or is a society in which shadow rulers should rule, in which an individual will not be free to decide about himself and in whom he will not have fundamental human rights? This law gives no one the right. All individuals are born with equal rights. Society is there to guarantee them that these rights will and will be realized and that no one will endanger them. Because, as we have heard, the history of the human race, unfortunately, is not too famous and it speaks of the fact that basic human rights have been very often threatened. In the end, many talk about children. Do we really want to raise our children so that they don't like others, not to be tolerated, to be intimidated, to grow up on prejudices and dogmas, or do we want our children to be raised in an open spirit, like curious beings who, through arguments and through science, will explore new possibilities and measure themselves in relation to the whole world? After all, are we a society that wants to be based on science or on dogma? I want to answer some of the questions raised during this debate and during the previous days. Really, is this a law that we've brought down to one question, which is -- freedom of sexual orientation, or is it a law that concerns discrimination at all? Of course he's talking about discrimination at all, but of course this is the law that first views discrimination as an entirely comprehensive problem, definition and term that involves sexual discrimination, and that's why, I think, it's important to talk about this subject as well. Here was the question, what's natural, and what's unnatural? Please don't let us fall into that trap, because we can't each and every one of us give an answer to what's natural. Finally, various societies throughout history have provided different answers to these questions. It was a question -- is it natural to be born with disability, is it natural to have some deformity and, after all, is it even natural to be different, because compared to what we can measure? If the average height of people is 170 to 180, is it natural to be 2.10 cm tall? Someone can say it's unnatural for me. That's why I like all these big thoughts that we could hear these days, when people say, for me, it's not normal. Please don't judge us that way, because the majority attitude isn't always the right attitude. Traditional attitude is often not the right attitude. Dogma, usually and as a rule, is not the right attitude. If only these majority, traditional and dogmatic attitudes were the question, then Jordano Bruno would not have been burned at the stake, then probably Jesus Christ, as a representative of a minority belief, would not have been crucified on the cross, then hundreds of thousands of women would not have been executed as witches, because they dared to be different from the traditional female role and many children born with some mark would not have been considered devil children. It's all human history and it's all a difference for which there was no tolerance. I must inform you that after the Middle Ages of darkness, civilization and Europe were defined for science. That's why I want to appeal to science, and I want to say what science says about the issue of sexual diversity. Science says homosexuality is not a disease. This is said by the international classification of disease, which is a valid classification in the world, it has already been 20 years to say so and I think that those who are doctors know it very well. So it's not disease and it's not deformity, it's diversity. What else does science say? What you're worried about is not transitory, ladies and gentlemen, and you can't get infected, nor can your children get infected because they eventually socialize or have someone in their vicinity who has a different sexual orientation. What else does science say? Science says it's innate, it's not a personal choice. It can't be changed, it can't be treated, it can't be achieved by training. Why would it be treated when it's not a disease? That's what science says. It's not a question of choice. But there are deliberate delusions here, which create prejudice, and prejudices often create aggression, and thus our societies threaten our children to grow in a deeply aggressive society. Is it possible to destroy a family? No, of course not. It doesn't matter. By the way, the concept of family has changed significantly throughout history. Now we're talking about a modern family that doesn't always have to contain mom, dad and kid, and it doesn't always have to be related to blood. The family is one mother with a child, and an out-of-wedth child, and a adopted child and, as you know, various other forms of family exist. I've already talked about the negative impact on the child. About some trying to even homosexuality with crime, it's really something I wouldn't talk about, because it's perfectly clear that pedophilia is a crime, and that homosexuality has nothing to do with it. So a heterosexual person can be a pedophile, and that's strictly a criminal act, simply because it's not about freedom of choice. Here we talk about freedom of choice, about what two adults want and decide they want to do. And children have nothing to do with it, because no one can force or perform sexual acts on a child, because it doesn't decide on equal terms. About the nation dying out because of it, it's a really funny argument and I don't want to talk about it. Homosexuality has always existed and will always exist. It's not a matter of homosexuality. The issue of birth is what heterosexual couples decide how many children they will have. This is a matter of equality and freedom. This is a question of the fundamental values of every society. For equality, freedom and justice, G17 plus will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15624	Thank you. Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15625	I point out the breach of Article 103(1) and Article 104(1). The speaker did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly and spoke of something that was not on the agenda. There's a law on banning discrimination on the agenda, not homosexuality. I've really listened to your tirad and propagating homosexuality, and you've almost recommended it to everyone, since in no way can it endanger the human soul or the body. I didn't give a shit when you were talking about kids, and you forgot that kids don't decide on their own, and you can't leave them to events and phenomena that you yourself know aren't recommended to children. God forbid your child grows up in an environment where such people express their affections. If he's not protected by society, if his family doesn't protect him, he won't be protected and turned away. It's not true that it's just an innate phenomenon, and that's not how science came out, it's what happens. It doesn't matter if we let the Dutch case happen again, when two women married, adopted a child, a girl, and divorced a marriage three years later. The girl passed out to some mother by law, but she grew up convinced that a man doesn't exist at all, that one of two women is a father and one is a mother. That girl will never think straight in her life, especially not about a man. So, ma'am, I understand you need to defend the law. Different initiatives exist with you defending him. Someone wants to prove he's not gay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15626	It's been two minutes, please. Thank you. Please, Mrs Plassic has made her point of view on the agenda. It is not by saying, by my assessment, and besides, we can speak out in voting day, in which case I would have hurt the Rules of Procedure for not reacting, I did not find any element to react, because there was no violation of the Parliament's dignity. I warn you that you have used and reported to the Rules of Procedure to practically create a duel on the verbal plan with Mrs Plasic, which is not allowed at this stage. You have time for your parliamentary group within which you can state your position, which does not have to agree, does not have to be identical or similar to that of Mrs Plassic. First there's a warning, and then there's everyone else, and then there's the next situation. Mrs. Plassic, there's no room for your call either, I apologize. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15627	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Madam President, first you'd like to tell me how much time my parliamentary group has left. Eleven more minutes. Thank you. I'm sorry Mr. Chiplic isn't here. The principle of equality and the principle that all people are equal, regardless of their personal properties, in modern societies represents more than a legal standard, it should be a moral imperative. However, Serbian citizens have the misfortune to have a very talented government, a government that is talented to deprive and degrade anything. The government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to make a circus and scandal out of an anti-discrimination bill. They managed to get everyone through the mud. They ran through the mud and citizens of Serbia, and institutions, and political parties and churches and religious communities. After such an undertaking, all of us here, as well as the citizens of Serbia, feel a little dirty. How did they manage to do this to all of us? With your incompetence and your incompetence. I remind you of the whole process of how it all happened. Somewhere in February, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a bill, so it passed through the government a bill and even managed to send it to the Assembly. This bill was not preceded by a quality debate. It was not a good debate because apparently seven churches and religious communities were not involved in the talks on the proposal. There are various claims, even the minister says it was a quality debate, but I am really inclined to believe Irine Bulovic, Mr Zukorlic, Mr Hočevar. I'd rather believe they weren't involved. Then the question arises what was the minister of religion, Mr. Shijakovic, doing at that session. Please, he must be communicating with churches and religious communities. He had to know their opinion and their attitude towards the bill. Why is there no such communication, and why is there no valid communication, and why is his opinion not respected at the meetings of the government, if at all he presented the church's position at that session? Was Mr. Bogoljub Shijakovic discriminated in that government? Is his opinion not being respected? Then the bill was withdrawn, so there were some consultations, so we got this new bill that is now in front of us, they say with some small changes, but again it is heard that some structures in our society, i.e. churches and religious communities, and I remind you that more than 90% of Serbian citizens are pleading as believers, are not again satisfied with this bill. So what was actually the goal of this happening, and I repeat, around one very important anti-discrimination law? The goal was obviously to distract all of us, MPs and citizens of Serbia, from other problems that should be talked about more. Otherwise, if you're following the media or the press, you're witnessing that you've only been talking about this law for a month. It would be good to talk about other disciplined groups, but now it's only one because it's considered discriminatory, but it's also best organized, obviously and loudest. So we should talk about-- losing jobs, making the standard of citizens worse every day. More should be said about the position of the Serb population in KIM. Is that discrimination when our citizens, Serbian citizens, have no electricity, so basic conditions for life, just because some of the Kosovo institutions there have decided to cut their electricity? So these citizens of ours don't have the right to basic needs. Then, more should be said about what our EU friends have told us. We know there is an election campaign under way for the European Parliament. It's a very loud and clear message from election campaigns, say in Germany, where you have CDU promising its citizens that there will be no more enlargement. It is said that Croatia may only succeed in becoming an EU member, and for Serbia and other Western Balkan countries, I say, unfortunately, there is obviously no more room. You know, the EU is still tired of expanding. Our government would have to deal with this issue more seriously, either they're deaf, or they don't want to hear it, or they want us all living in some virtual world of promises, where we're still talking about the EU, and we're not building a plan B. You know, and a serious man and a serious family have one plan, but you always have to make sure that this plan may not come true, so you have to have plan B, and plan C. So that's how the states behave and we say serious governments. There's very little to talk about. I don't know if they're even thinking about what's gonna happen to Serbia in a year or two. Minister Ciplic, I've heard a few times on TV, says the bill on banning discrimination, which turns out to be the most important reason - that this is one of the conditions for Serbia to come to the white Schengen list. I would much prefer that both Mr. Ciplic and the other Serbian government ministers say -- no, dear citizens, we need this roof anti-discrimination law, because there is still discrimination in Serbia in the 21st century. It is well known and it is known that in all studies - who are the most vulnerable groups in Serbia. It is known that the largest discrimination is suffered by members of the Roma national minority today. They are still highly discriminated against, so we have not provided them with conditions and basic human rights - disabled, or disabled persons. Women are also still highly discriminated against. So these are arguments that were to go and convince both MPs and citizens. You can't just flash a sentence -- you know, this is our condition for white Schengen. What and when we're done and when we adopt all the laws that are on that so-called. Schengen leaves? We, I mean, mostly adopted, we may still have a certain number of laws, but we'll end it in a month or two. How will the Serbian government answer the question - well, gentlemen from Serbia, and where are your borders and who are your citizens? Will you ensure that 130,000 Serbs living in the Serbian province on KIM travel without a visa? How are you going to answer that question, and that's next. So when we finish these legislative activities, you have many more very difficult questions to answer. I hope you didn't sell Cosmet for a white Schengen because the EU door is closed for you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15628	Mr. Minister Chiplic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15629	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, what's very important is that we speak to each other and listen to each other as we speak. I have said several times behind this speaker that this law is by chance a condition for white Schengen, but that the Republic of Serbia, based on what its internal legal order is, owes the citizens of Serbia this law. Maybe I wasn't clear enough. I am now saying that this law, regardless of the condition for the white Schengen, is a debt that the Republic of Serbia has owed for six years, as far as this law is concerned, to the citizens of Serbia. This government is paying back that debt. For six years, there has been an informal debate, a public debate on this law. I repeat, we can agree on a solution or not, we can agree to the government's argument or not, but that argument stands. I also said that this roof law does not prevent and exclude the adoption of special anti-discrimination laws for certain endangered categories of persons. It's very important that we know the next thing. How is the public debate organised? The public debate is being organised by a public invitation. The Ministry of Faith, not this, but before, has given its opinion on a version that is very similar to this law. Moreover, the original version of this law, when it was sent to the government, had exactly the form the Ministry of Faith was looking for. We can try to find as much compromise as possible, to hire as many experts as possible, to include as many interested groups as possible in writing the law, but our goal is to pass this law. The government once had to cut off a six-year debate on a law banning discrimination. We did it now and we cut it off. I repeat, even the moment the law was already sent to the assembly procedure, respecting churches and traditional religious communities, we withdrew it, ten days ago, no matter what the formal public debate was over and what took six years of public debate, or withdrawal, respecting both their status and their position. I repeat, Article 18 again, as it sounds, it's compatible with their wishes, so literally so. In this respect, it is certainly European experience and European practice that is important. Most states, yesterday I read, have this kind of law. What I missed yesterday, by my mistake, is to name Greece as well. Greece has a ban on discrimination under the 2005 Labour Act. So it is very important for me to hear what the MPs say, and I would very much like the MPs to hear what I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15630	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the People's MP Mrs. Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15631	President-in-Office, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it is a great pleasure, I have spoken of many laws for this speaker, but it is indeed my greatest pleasure to have the opportunity to talk about the anti-discrimination law and because Serbia is on the verge of adopting this law after six years. On the other hand, I feel very bad and personally that this law is used and misused in this way and that it is not spoken of today, for days it has not already spoken of what is truly its contents. The development of society actually shows what kind of relationship we have with minority and endangered groups and how we treat those in need of protection. The history of humanity is the history of the development of consciousness, the development of democracy and the development of relations with freedom. It's a history of winning freedom. A hundred years ago, our ancestors, our wives couldn't imagine working at the factory first, let alone voting or participating in the government. Today our voice is equally heard. Women in certain Islamic countries today can't imagine going out into the street without a male escort, let alone being in the place where I stand. I deeply believe that in 50 years it will be normal, because like I said, history is a conquest of freedom. As it was impossible for us a few years ago to speak politically differently without being rudely sanctioned or beaten or to have your own child report you because it was normal to say in this country - I gave birth to you, and I will kill you. In 50 years, many things we see today as normal, believe me, will be impossible. We are here to create such a situation and such opportunities. So this law and the relationship that we have with him at this point tells us how ready we are to accept all humans truly as equals to us and how much prejudice we really are deeply rooted in. What's really a question is whether the story of homosexuals, which I must admit, is least important in the context of the importance of this law, is actually an excuse not to show how prejudice we have toward some other groups and how truly unprepared we are to accept that all people are equal to us. Declaratively everyone here will say that there is no problem with the Roma, they will probably be so merciful that five dinars are given to them at the pedestrian crossing, but working at the Ministry of Human Rights, I saw that everyone is very willing to write their children out of every department where there are several Roma so their children don't get lice. Among them were my fellow MPs. We're very willing to talk about the rights of everyone, how they're all equal and we don't have any problem with it, but we have a very big problem for some Roma to bring us in as a police officer or to take our job. About other minorities not to talk. When you speak, look at the language of public words in the media of our political followers. A thousand times you'll hear the word that we're very liberal and we're giving everyone freedom. Who are we to give? Aren't people members of another religion, other nations, different from us citizens like us who take as much as they own? Who are we to give from God to give them and thus prove our greatness? Be careful when you say it how much it says about us how unprepared we are to accept the concept of equality. As the relationship to this law shows, we here vote in favour of many laws without being ready to accept them essentially, because the relationship to this law shows that we did not actually accept the Constitution, which we love to mention and to drill into our breasts as we all voted unanimously for it. It is this Constitution in Article 21 that guarantees equality, and this Constitution in Article 1 says that this is a state based on human and minority rights, civil freedoms and European principles and values. When we vote on laws that reflect such principles and values, we show neither that we understand them nor that we accept them, nor that we are attached to them. Also, when we act like this under this law, our own legal system, because this law does not introduce any new basis for discrimination, except for the ancestors, which has not already been introduced in other laws, and we have voted here for the Law on the Rights of the Child, Family Law, the Law on Information, the Labour Act, the Law on Health Protection and thousands of other laws which all these types of discrimination already list and already speak of them. Nothing spectacular and new to this law has happened, except that many have received a political platform to show what their intimate and deep beliefs are, it's simple and good, but it's not healing. It's not healing for this society, because this society was so much more mature three years ago and it's obviously going backwards. When we passed the National Minorities Act, we voted unanimously for it, aware that it was non-democratic, non-human, and simply impossible for us all to not be a principle of respect for minorities in the 21st century. That is why it is amazing that today this law is causing these polemics, rather than being able to show us all how much we have advanced as a democratic society. What's amazing, too, is that in this law we just had, we barely had opportunities, except for the minister, to hear the content of the law. What are these new institutes that this law makes? What brings us the introduction of the trustee institute? What's new about this law? That's all three things no one's talking about. What everyone here was talking about has already been introduced by some other laws. We had a chance to talk about it in the past few years. Let's not fool the public into saying that now some will get rights they don't already have, either by the Constitution or by some other law. By this law we get a general definition of discrimination, we get an explanation of certain acts of discrimination and we get a clear and precise list and a description of how to sanction discrimination. I agree here with colleagues who had previously talked about why we didn't talk about some other groups, which we should talk about today, and whose law gives us the chance to be truly equal. First, let's talk about something new that this law adopts, which is the possibility of protecting one who rebelles against discrimination. Today, people are being discriminated against in the workplace, on the street, in public transport, in a pool where they don't receive them to bathe without being allowed to talk about it or not to do anything about it because they're afraid, because in that case they'll be even more harshly sanctioned. This law forbids it. This law defines the hate speech that started the wars in this country. This law defines difficult forms of discrimination, and I fully welcome the possibility that there are the most difficult forms of discrimination, and they are particularly difficult because they are done by the state, i.e. institutions with public powers which must not know the laws and which must not treat different citizens and because they are difficult forms of discrimination when discrimination is done through the media and public information funds. It is important to say, because this introduces a order and a different relationship, if we are among all of us and between political inexperiences and between us who are religious, nationally different and among those who have other personalities, this introduces order and that is why we need to talk about it today. What is it that this law brings to citizens who are numerous, and we talk for example. About women, we're not talking about children? How many of you witnessed at parent meetings that some children were discriminated against because of their social background? This law in Article 22 prohibits it, discriminates against it, and it's worth telling people. To return to the beginning of where I came from, mankind's history is the history of conquering freedom. Old people used to kill themselves in this country so they wouldn't take away food for younger people. That was called a lapot. Today, thanks to the progress of civilization and these laws, I hope that the greatest victims will no longer happen because no one wants to give them a chance to work, because no one wants to give them a chance to live. And that's what this law is talking about, not about those most mentioned here, who are much less in need of our protection than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15632	The word is Mr. Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15633	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would first refer to Article 24 that regulates discrimination against national minorities. It is known to tolerate the Serbian state and people's attitude towards national minorities. National minorities develop uninterruptedly, and they multiply. Their status is protected according to the highest European standards. Throughout history, new national formations have been created from Serbs, of which, after the creation of new states in Serbia, there are also national minorities, such as Croatia, Slovenia, Muslim or Bosniak national minorities. It should also be pointed out that Serbs have preserved the old national and religious minorities precisely because of the liberal religious policy of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the SPC and Serbs in general. However, in other emerging countries of the environment, especially in Slovenia and Croatia, other peoples of eight of the newly created state and political people, have almost disappeared due to the proselytic policies of churches, the policies of the national assimilation of Serbian and other peoples, due to the policy of war terror of Serb persecution. Slovenia, for example, has been cleansed by Serbs, Roma and Hungarians. Serbs have been deleted from the national list of peoples in Slovenia. Since minorities are protected, sometimes overprotected, because of the exceptional public influence of individuals from religious national minorities, I propose that a law be passed on to protect Serbia's Orthodox national majority from neo-oliberal ideological groups, which are ruling and non-governmental political parties, by NGOs who discriminate most people with lies about Serbian hegemonism, large Serb politics, Serbian fascism, etc. The influential individuals of Serbian and non-Serb origin, with their aggressive vocabulary in the media, are now challenging and insulting members of the majority people, humiliating his history, state institutions, etc. The media itself is competing to undermine Serbia's national and historical reputation. I think it is urgent to protect traditional, cultural and religious values from anti-European ineoliberal ideas. The neoliberal ideology is heading precisely in the anti-European direction of denying essential European, moral, national, cultural and religious values. The destruction of the traditional church and religious organization, it organizes sects, destroys traditional peoples from which it creates new euronations, creates all the culture of the godless avant-garde modernist new European importance. A member of the 21st law, who was arousing the public, was somewhat relieved after a protest of classical churches and religious communities. Namely, a birth certificate has been deleted, and there remains a rule of free sexual orientation. Gentlemen MPs, churches and religious communities, despite their antagonist religious dogmas, this time they've been solidarityd. We are witnessing that because of the aggressive appearance of atheistic and neoliberal groups there is a certain ecumenical convergence, otherwise extremely opposed churches, such as the SPC and the Roman Catholic Church. In the fight for joint survival, their traditional religious national and political doctrines that have been opposed throughout history due to the Vatican proselytic policy of the centuries-long counting of Orthodox Serbs and the creation of Croats, seek ecumenically to bring together at least certain factions in the SPC. It is known that these factions were in Ravena in 2007 and negotiated with Vatican representatives about future ecumenism. The Serbian Orthodox Church throughout history, as well as the Jewish faith of Moses, shared the fate of its people. In peaceful times she was invisible, while waking up in times of the naked survival of the Serb people, as it was in 1937, the Concordian crisis in 1941, 1991 and 1999, and today for the adoption of this law on discrimination. The state should simply protect the traditional position of the Serbian church in the Serbian state, as it was during the 19th and 20th centuries. None of us advocate theocratic relationship between the state and the church, or the creation of a medieval church state. Nationalists in the Principality of Serbia, i.e. the Kingdom of Serbia, have determined the position of the state church, according to the number of Serbian people who were over 90% in the time of the Kingdom of Serbia. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, churches and religious organisations were in the position of a public legal corporation, i.e. the Yugoslav state was obliged to control and control the organisation and work of churches through its restours and materially subsidize them. Today's current legal position of churches and religious communities is very similar to the former position in the liberal Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In fact, the worms are not literally separated from the state, as it says in the Constitution. That relationship is still a little more subtle than we think. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under the arches of this socialist building, could be heard from the position and opposition that the church is separate from the state. Like I said, that's not true. This one, in some parts of the unspeakable Constitution, states this, but allows the state to communicate with churches in an administrative manner through the Ministry of Faith. The Law on Churches and Religious Organizations provides for the establishment of the Ministry of Faith, the separation of the church from the state. Therefore, if the churches in the Republic of Serbia are in the position of a public legal corporation, or if they are administratively linked to the state, then the state must seriously consider the opinion of the church and, in my view, the intervention of the churches in this case was fully justified. In this law, it implements the tendency of radical neoliberal religious policies of its creators. That is why this law, especially Article 21, is publicly criticised by representatives of churches. The archbishop of Belgrade's Stanislav Hočevar is breaking the law and accusing him of discriminating the Jewish tradition. The churches, in addition to the excuse that they were not invited to a public debate, are the reason for their dissatisfaction, instructions and incorrect formulations that could endanger the freedom to confess their faith, as well as the possibility that such a text introduces rights that offend public morality and the basic ethical relationship of objective value. Archbishop Hochevar warns that the adoption of such a law could be in a position to be tried if, for example, they would forbid homosexuals from being priests, even though they refused to marry a same - sex couple. In recent times, the former Dean and Professor of Law Faculty Vladimir Vednelic, who teaches the Serbian state and church, as well as other traditional churches, has been very much represented, what kind of religious policy should be promoted by the state. Professor Dr. Vodnelic is potentially criticising both the authorities and the churches for withdrawing this law. He cites them as losers, and as a winner, he cites a public who, for the sake of, I quote, illegally withdrawing the law convinced that churches and government in this country are not solid as institutions. It seems to me that Vodaelić probably worked on this law, as well as on other laws on the protection of human rights. According to Professor Vodanic, the biggest losers are homosexuals and transsexuals, 'cause they're losing part of the hope that there won't be any second-class citizens in the future'. Well, why would homosexuals become second-class citizens? And without this law, they are not citizens of the second order, they, like heterosexuals, can express their national or anti-national feelings, have the right to work or to hate, have the right to education, to perfecte, to have the right to personal cultural expression. Homosexuals, not to forget, often highly educated individuals, are successful in their work, but the problem arises when certain NGOs and the political party of neoliberal ideological orientation begin to use homosexuals to achieve their political goal, to achieve their ideological goal, which is to destroy nations and traditions. That's why public manifestations and marches of homosexuals are being forced. Why this public event? So the sexuality of heterosexuals, transsexuals and homosexuals, as far as we know, requires intimacy, spontaneity, incarceration. Homosexuals, like heterosexuals, have different religious, national, ideological and political beliefs. And some are respected by different religious, political and ideological options. There are state-of-the-art homosexuals, national and anti-national, mondialic, clerical and secular, believers and non-believers, but who don't go to gay parades. The bottom line is that non-oliberal NGOs want to bring transsexuals and homosexuals under an ideological political umbrella, a form of coercion and discrimination against those homosexuals who won't join their organisations. Why must all homosexuals be under the laps of anti-Serbian NGOs, who are conducting the political organization of the same? All these anti-Serbian NGOs are connected and the choir highlights the discrimination conducted by the government, churches and fascist Serbs. Since I'm running out of time, I don't want to mention directly what organizations these are, I'd just like to mention the Labris organization, the Association for the Promotion of Human Rights of Sexually Different Pride. Then, together with them, the Women in Black, the Feminist Group 94, performs. They all tell us together that Serbia is in deep crisis, political and social, from which it will be difficult to find a way out unless war crimes are released and war criminals delivered to The Hague tribunal. You see how far that group goes, this formation that, for God's sake, only advocates sexual rights. Finally, the SRS will vote against this law, which, as I said, annuls traditional Serbian but also European moral values, tradition, ethics, and aesthetics as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15634	There are 40 minutes left for your parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. The LDP parliamentary group has five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15635	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, is without a doubt the most important law the Assembly adopts in this session. This also shows the conduct of all the parliamentary groups and shows the intensity of the controversy. There are a lot of things to say about this law, but we've heard most of it before, so let me give a new angle on the most important issues that have opened up. Surely, the most controversial question is the right to express sexual devotion. As much as we want to ignore it, the discussion shows that this is also the most painful issue right now, at least in this House. In addition to a lot of things my colleagues have said before, in which we clearly express the LDP's position that someone's showing love is allowed and that we think that there's no way to prevent it, let me use another argument that's been heard like this, and I think it's very important, from which I'm going to say something else. Namely, Article 20. The constitution, which only in this LDP summit was against, says the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. You'll all agree with that. The Law on Public Information, 22 April 2003, "it is forbidden to publish ideas, information, opinions due to belonging to a race, religion, nation or their sexual commitment". The government of Vojislav Kostunica, minister from Vojislav Kostunica's party,15. March 2005, Labour Act, Article 1: "Indirect and direct discrimination of persons seeking employment is prohibited, given gender, birth etc."... "Sex-determination." August 30, Law on Higher Education, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, party minister Vojislav Kostunica's "right to higher education has all persons with previously acquired secondary education, regardless of race, color, sexual orientation", etc. This right has already been reached and here we are talking about a roof law that only generalises all individual discrimination and introduces tools to prevent or punish this discrimination. What I was about to say is that the relationship to this law and what is already being said is a false subject of gay rights. The bottom line is that this is a European law and the first political European law to be adopted in this House. The relationship under this law is a relationship to the process of European integration. If we look at it that way, we'll understand why, how and who this law attacks. Of course, I am deeply certain that this law will be passed and I have no doubt about it, and it is time for this law to be passed. What's much more important at this point is that they are right colleagues from the SRS, and the way this law will be passed will deeply determine how it will be implemented. From this point on, we have suggested that no MP should be denied the right to defend his amendment in the way he thinks he should. At least it agrees with all MPs, the LDP parliamentary group with SRS positions, but if they are now deprived of the right to defend or to try to explain each of its amendments, the shadow of this law will be cast so that its implementation will not be possible. That is why I ask the majority once again to adopt our proposal, to schedule consultations and that the heads of parliament agree on the way in which the debate will be made possible, which will allow all of us to show that the fight against discrimination starts from this Parliament, and that it will further expand from this Parliament to our entire society, which I think is declarative, if not frankly, the aim of each of the MPs or has been in the debate so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15636	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15637	Honorable MPs, respected presidency, respected ministers, the SNS is against every form of discrimination because we are one modern and tolerant party. In Serbia, there is no place for discrimination against citizens, neither is positive discrimination desirable, as favouring a group can lead to citizens' reluctance towards the group, causing hatred for the group. The proposal to pass anti-discrimination laws is to bring our legal regulations in line with international standards, which is fine. The adoption of this law is one of the conditions that the EU puts before us for a visa-free regime. And that's okay. It should be possible for our citizens to travel without visas, but the law should be made to fit all citizens, i.e. that all citizens benefit from this law, and those who do not have the money to travel to European countries. These days, a lot of dust has risen over the law on the ban on discrimination. The law was given to the Assembly for adoption, so it was withdrawn and returned, and now we are discussing this law. However, once this law is passed, there will not be much change in Serbia, because we now have a Serbian Constitution that prohibits any form of discrimination. Under the Constitution, all citizens are equal, everyone has the right to equal legal protection. Serbia's constitution prohibits any form of indirect or direct discrimination on any basis, especially based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, political and other beliefs, physical or other disability, age, based on property, culture, language, etc. In addition to the Constitution and the law, there are social norms, rules of conduct and education. We have learned from our ancestors to respect other people, regardless of their language, faith, nationality, skin color, gender, health or material condition. We learned to live together and to be tolerant. Serbia is the only one of the most mixed environments in terms of ethnic origin of citizens, culture, religion, language, nationality. The people of these places have no tradition of the extermination of other peoples. We don't have a habit of keeping slaves, we don't have colonies to exploit. The people of these places, therefore, all of us, regardless of faith and nationality, do not have that gene, the gene of intolerance and hatred towards man. We don't have that gene. We can be examples of Europe and beyond for respect of people and tolerance. With great certainty, I can say, if there is a problem of discrimination against a group or individual in that group or a member of a national minority, this problem is not conditioned by the membership of that group or national minority, but by the overall socio-economic situation affecting all of our citizens. The law seeks to introduce a trustee for the protection of equality, with the entire administration, which will start with over 30 new officials on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the budget is already overcrowded with a number of assistants, deputies and advisers. The work of the trustee may also be carried out by a civil protection officer or by a congregation committee. The SNS has submitted several amendments to this law, in order to improve the law, to become acceptable to all MPs, and thus the SNS, or the Progressive Group of Serbia, would vote in favour of the law. At the end of the bill, there are criminal provisions which, in my opinion, are very mild. If there is damage that discrimination can do to Serbian and Serbian citizens, these criminal provisions are mild. To finish with one sentence about the tolerance that my father told me - every man is worth at least as much as you, and maybe even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15638	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sasa Milenić, you have ten and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15639	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my party Together for Kragujevac and our coalition partner G 17 plus, therefore, Parliament group G 17 plus looks to this law from the height of the moral principle and the political principle of faith in the individual's personal freedom and dignity. It is only from this height that this bill becomes evident and its value is visible. Does this mean that we believe that someone among us can't see these values? Does this mean that we doubt the social maturity and the moral age of a view from which many views represented in the extraparliamentary and the assembly debate on the proposal of this law are provided? It's true, then. Confidence with the second and different, with discrimination, until Satanization and organized collective aggression, has marked decades after us. If you could talk to a fly, she'd probably tell you that she thinks she's carrying inside herself a moving center of the world and that the headquarters of the universe is turning right in it. Falling into this unembarkable cave of its own perspective, the inability to alternate perspectives, and hence intolerance towards images of things seen from another angle and different interest, led to a major decline in the communicative competences of our social community, and this decline led to a simplified, primitive concept of social standards. Manipulators and spin masters made it an atmosphere of fear and personal identity threats, and then this fear was easy to arm and push into aggression and violence of mass proportions. For this reason, we must admit that our society is distracted and has problems with the function of development. On these most common issues of civilization, it is clear how difficult we are to make progress. That's why we're talking about the necessity of discontinuity, the necessity of breaking up with the subject and the spirit of time behind us. Such discontinuity in this assembly brings the most clear verification of the SAA, as well as this law on the prohibition of discrimination. These are laws that I will be proud of in front of my children for participating in their vote. (President: Mr. Markovic, please be quiet. ) The essential value of this law lies in the fact that every collectiveism is unnatural over individual freedom and individual personality. If someone seems this and too liberal, we can also clearly quote non-liberal thinkers who explicitly, in the spirit of humanistic messages, say - the freedom of an individual is a condition of freedom for everyone. Resistance to this law is precisely coming from here because it's a glagic stake in the heart of a decade of a cherished concept of power, a concept in which the government is perceived as the right to discrimination. Discriminate Slovenians, discriminate against the Shiptars, discriminate against the opposition, discriminate against foreigners, until we sink in the soft bar of incest, chasing everything different and different around us. This law is actually a stop to such a retrograde trend that represents a counter-evolutional direction in the life of our society and therefore, with its slogan - the Forest in the middle of the world, Together for Kragujevac, with pleasure, along with its coalition partner G 17 plus, participates in the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15640	I thank Mr. Milenic. National MP Zoran Nikolic has a word, available for two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15641	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, it is very difficult in two and a half minutes to explain the reasons why the DSS will not vote for this law or rather cannot vote for this law. Among other things, an example of why we cannot vote for this law is contained in my predecessor's speech. So, more things, but to start from the first, to prepare this law and to release it into the process is simply another proof that this government in every area, in every field, in every segment of life and every initiative it has, as a rule shares society and produces instability in this country. That's what every citizen can see after these six, seven months. I guarantee you that this law has been proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica in order to achieve a consensus in this House. This government, first of all, deceived citizens, and we had the opportunity to see from representatives of religious communities, did not even conduct a valid debate. It's because of what Mr. Micunovic was talking about, because there were deficits in arguments and surplus emotions. This surplus of emotion has been seen for the last ten days when religious communities, and especially the SPC, and equally with all other religious communities, have responded to certain provisions of this law. At that time, both the hips and the disruptors were raised, making fun of religious communities, especially the SPC, and the government is very good at coordinating, which is an honor to this government. The word tolerance is mentioned here, and no one can, who is considered a Democrats, challenge the need to live in a tolerance society. This law is disputed in many points for the reason that we are convinced, by giving the right to someone, we are also jeopardizing the right of someone else, and those rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution. The amendments submitted by the DSS are heading in that direction. The replacement of the thesis carried out by this authority in continuity is that this is a need to get closer to European integration. When we discuss details and amendments to the DSS, I would like at least the minister, representing the government, or someone from the ruling coalition to say -- what is not democratic and non-European in the amendments proposed by the DSS. It guarantees both rights to one and the other, and protects the rights of those who are considered endangered, by giving rights to the groups that have been spoken of here. Don't hide... (President: Time, please bring an end. I'm done. Do not hide behind European integration and do not present this as a condition for white Schengen, or Schengen visas, because if we are talking about discrimination, I am asking Mr. Chiplic and the Government - will, as Mr. Djelic opened in London a month ago... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15642	Thank you. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Chiplet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15643	Honorable MPs and MPs, very briefly. The esteemed previous speaker astounded me, actually inspired me to say a few more facts. The previous government and the government before it made a debt of several very serious laws. I don't know why this law in the previous government wasn't offered to parliament. For six years, I said last time, Serbia owes a law prohibiting discrimination against Serbian citizens. Since 2002, and I wonder why this has not been done so far, this government will do so, Serbia owes its citizens, to this commitment, to the law on national councils. What's most important - why has no Roma strategy been adopted so far? This government will bring it in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15644	Thank you. Replica? Nothing was offensive, Mr. Nikolic. I can't give you my word... (Zoran Nikolic, from the scene: I was misread. I didn't realize you were misread. (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: It was said - predecessor. Please, you're right. Termin - predecessor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15645	For the third time today has threatened not to let me speak, which is my constitutional and parliamentary right, but it's good, I have a right. I love it when one of the ministers is bold and says something this government will do that isn't previous. Let me remind you, you were sitting in that previous government too, and that government with far less tension and division in society has brought more than 200 laws in cohabitation in the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. You have no law, no law on ants, you can't pass by not sharing company. You're the source of instability in this country, and this law is a crucial proof of that, because the amendments we gave you, that you wanted to co-operate with religious communities, that you wanted to share an opinion, that you wanted to share with them in a public debate to come up with a common solution, there wouldn't be any of these problems that we have now. All of this is a simple microcry. You're hiding behind European integration, hiding behind European values, hiding supposedly behind tolerance, and in fact you're the one who's intolerant, who every instinctive reaction, when someone feels hurt, is sanctioned through media hacks, and it's on your honor. It's not a feature of a democratic society. That's not tolerance. It is a violation of the rights of citizens who have the right to their own opinion. Whether this law is passed or not, I have the right to say I disagree with it. It's my civic right, it's my constitutional right, but I don't know why you get so attached to people who think otherwise. This law needs both this country and this society, but a law that will not give one's rights to another, and that compromise can be made. You as good students, European practitioners, as you said, do not worry about the specificity of Serbian society and that is what the problem is. You're ignoring it. You ignored religious communities, you ignored the SPC, now you're trying to cover it up by making a commitment to European integration. You won't get away with it. You don't advocate European integration. Every day we are away from the EU with this and this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15646	Thank you. Mrs. Natasa Vukkovic has a word. The ZES Group has 64 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15647	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very good that this is how the debate on this law and the issues that this law regulates opened. I disagree with those who feel that, if one question is controversial, it means that the law on this issue should not be passed. On the contrary, it is precisely the reason why one law is passed that some questions are controversial and that we have to regulate certain phenomena in society that are causing this controversy. The debate on this law has become a debate on basic values and debates on how we see the development of Serbian society and how we see Serbia in the coming time. This has also become one debate about freedom of equality, as some basic values of every modern society, and every time we have the opportunity to talk about freedom of equality, that's good, because very often we have to remind ourselves of the importance and freedom and equality they have in the lives of each of us, both politicians and citizens. What is also very important is that we have an opportunity to say that social values are something that is changing and that is not once and for all, that there are no monopolies of any groups and no organizations, when they express certain social values and certain social morality. It's a matter of a certain social agreement and a certain time. That's why I think this debate is extremely important. Many predecessors before me spoke of the extent of freedom's historical expansion. When we talk about our freedom traditions, I think we need to remember seriously and responsibly that it is they, Serbian thinkers, politicians, citizens, freedom fighters, human rights fighters who have made it possible to develop this society, not those who have advocated only the rigid traditional values of which I do not dispute, but simply in every time there is something called the conflict of traditional norms, traditional values and something that represents a step forward in terms of winning freedom. I'll remind you of something that today represents almost standard in every modern society, and it was heresy at the moment when some represented the struggle for these values. Let's remember the struggle for the general right to vote, remember the struggle for union freedoms and rights. It was heresy back then. In the end, it was thought that, although most advocated, it was not good for society to adopt. Yet, the result of the adoption of these freedoms and these criteria is something that has become a standard today. It would be important to take care in this debate that sometimes, as politicians, as someone who makes a decision on the development of our society, we have to move forward rather than just cement what we're used to living in and the values we're used to calling on. The DS has always worked on extending the freedom field on its own side, and that is why it is so uniquely defending this law both in public and in parliament. This law is one of the most important laws for Serbia for many reasons. One of these reasons is that this law, in a way, resuscitates and operatings the entire set of human rights and civil rights that our Constitution determines. Another reason is that this law, as one roof law, allows one fine network to be created between all those laws that regulate only a segment of anti-discrimination by starting with the Criminal Law and all other laws that already operate in our legal system. The third reason, even though some think he's not so important, I think he is, is the question whether this law is one of the conditions on the road map for the White Schengen list, is this our obligation as members of the Council of Europe? Yes, it is our duty. We are obliged to deliver this law to citizens in some way, because citizens voted for Serbia's EU accession, or for Serbia's EU integration process. It's something that we rightly owe our voters. I wouldn't give up on those reasons. However, these are not the most important reasons why this law should be passed. The most important laws are that there is a lot of discrimination in our society, a lot of violence, violence in words, violence in deeds, and I think that when each of us tries to get into someone else's situation, in the situation of people with whom we live very often, very closely, with our neighbors, with our closest relatives, we will see to what extent discrimination is actually exposed. That's what this law intends to eradicate, intend to set one standard of behavior and action, one standard of communication between people. We communicate as if everyone bothers in this society. We can't go forward like that. We need to learn to cooperate with each other, to think about each other without prejudice, based on quality, based on professional and human qualities. That's what somewhere this law like that story of values is, in fact, establishing and that's why this law should be supported. When we talk about these concrete forms of discrimination, I specifically worked with some middle-aged women who remained unemployed as a consequence of company restructuring in various areas. Let's ask ourselves a question -- how many women who are between 45 and 55, who lost their jobs somewhere where they work for 20 years just because they're not young? So let's ask on the other hand, how many women who are young and who didn't get the job just because they're young and what can they think of to start their own family, and then talk about low birth rate, etc? We must be coherent in our statements and policies that we represent. This law has the opportunity to ensure equal chances, and any society that wishes to have equal chances must ensure a ban on discrimination and an effective protection system. I don't think it's a good idea to put an argument against this law just on the basis of the right to express people's sexual orientation. It may be right, it may be a controversial question, but as I have already said, sometimes we have to take a step further, understand another's situation, understand another's desire to participate equally in everyday life, have the same right to find a job, have the same right to education, to treat and everything else that falls within the domain of normal rights. There were many words about religious communities. No one challenges them at least the right to participate as an important social actor in defining and creating policies. What is important is that we all learn somewhere, and Parliamentarians themselves advocate very often opening public debates on the law, public hearing in parliament, these are some procedures. Anyone who wants to be a social actor simply has to respect and participate in these procedures. Therefore, the arguments to me that someone was not invited to participate in a public debate, and he wants to be a social actor, not sufficiently justified, because if you want to be a social actor, you have to do so in one active way, to be interested in those laws that you consider to be important to your actions. In the end, I think there is a large part of the obligation on us politicians and parliamentarians to apply this law. How to stop spreading hatred and develop tolerance, and to develop a culture of diversity, recognition of diversity and the fight against prejudice based on one's personal properties. We give, among other things, the tone of development of this society. That's why I'm in favour, and I'd love to, and I think that would be very good if we could adopt one of these laws by a significant majority. I think it would be a significant message to our citizens and something that marks the modern development of our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15648	I thank Mrs. Vuchkovic. The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15649	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us, according to the Government, an extremely important law. However, if the government is shown to have treated the topic covered by this law, another impression is made. Minister, you can't represent one law as an expression of goodwill and a matter of compromise, as you said. You say - this law owes the state of Serbia to its citizens. Is the state paying the debt back to the citizens of Serbia by presupposing that genocide and ethnic cleansing are punishable? Although the law, according to competent statements, has been working for several years, the proposal contains a series of gaps that we must point to and precisely because of these failures, i.e. because of its importance in the form in which we are today, we cannot accept it, although, once again, the SRS is ideologically and programmically against discrimination. I'll just look back on some of his flaws. First, it is sad that anti-discrimination law must be one of the conditional requirements for Serbia's entry into the EU. If that wasn't the case, I'm asking you, would you even think about him? Ladies and gentlemen, if laws are adopted for the sake of order, and not because of their content, because of their application in practice, then the question must be asked - what is the purpose of this law? Is the essence, or priority of its adoption, rather than its content, its provisions and what follows, or its application in practice? If things are simplified in this way, unless the Government has so far realized that human rights and freedoms, equality and equality must be respected, not only to show that it is consistent with its so-called. Then, as a society, we must point out that we have major problems. The law provides for the establishment of an institution of trustees to protect equality. The moment we're being threatened by recession, it's very inappropriate to increase the state administration. On the other hand, it is in colluding with statements by individual ministers, say Minister Markovic, who announced a reduction in the state administration by 8,000 people. Also, if the practice so far is analysed, i.e. the pace of setting up these so-called practices. Autonomous state bodies, it will be reprieved. Let us only remember the State Auditing Institution and its wayways or respect for the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against public importance. What it looks like in practice may best illustrate the words of Rodoljub Šabić: "For the government's willingness to help independent people in their work is too much to waste their words. It is common knowledge that it has been far below and needs a possible level for years." If you look at these facts, then all the further talk on this subject is immaterial and excess. The protection of equality, above all, should be dealt with by judicial authorities, as well as by the protection of citizens, an institution that already exists. Article 16 that regulates discrimination in the field of work, item 3, is unspeakable and creates a space for manipulation. In particular, Article 3(3) states what is not considered to be discrimination, i.e. making a difference, disfellowshipping or granting a championship to a person or group is not discrimination, if the purpose which it seeks to achieve is justified and where protection measures are taken according to individual categories of persons. It is said to be women, pregnant women, maternity parents, minors, people with disabilities and others. Who else are you? Why couldn't they have been taxed too? Who will determine who these other faces are, too, who will determine when the purpose is justified? Minister, also, if you can explain how protection from discrimination will be regulated when it comes to unemployment? The law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger", with the exception of Articles 28 to 40, which start to apply on 1 January 2010, and shall be adopted by emergency procedure. What an absurd. The law will be broken from day one by the competent state authorities. If you claim otherwise, you are obliged to explain to us how Article 17(2) will be respected that everyone has equal access to facilities in public use. How will this provision be respected when it comes to people with disabilities? Not at all. At this point, with the behaviour of the competent state authorities, unfortunately the citizens of the second row may not be on paper, but in practice they certainly are. It's our cruel reality. That's the difference, the laws are passed, but they're not applied in practice. This law will be violated just as the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, which states in Article 4, that public authorities are obliged to ensure that persons with disabilities enjoy rights and freedoms without discrimination and which also contains that provision as well as this law that is before us. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, that law was passed in 2006. When it comes to national minorities, the law prohibits their discrimination based on nationality, ethnic origin, religious beliefs and language. The method of achievement and protection shall be governed by specific laws. The National Minority Protection Act was passed in 2002, and since then many circumstances have changed. The National Minority Council Act has not yet been passed. The dispute is also Article 45(1), which denied the defendant's right to prove that he is not guilty, which violates not only his procedural but human rights, guaranteed, among other things, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. To increase the absurdity, the reasons for the adoption of this law include respect for international standards, taken over by ratification of the treaty, including the mentioned documents of the Council of Europe, and among them the convention. My fellow lawyers will, I'm sure, talk more about it when it comes to the amendment. These are just some controversial provisions, and there are a lot of them. Finally, to point out once again, when laws are passed in order, and not because of their application in practice, when their creation is not approached much more seriously, some of its provisions by automation are prescribed from laws applied in other countries, and they do not respect the specificities of our society and the state, we will continue to be a society in which, for members of marginalised human rights groups, only an unfulfilled dream remains. There will still be terror of the majority over the minority. In Serbia, people will still be divided into similar and inadequate, retrograde, reverse and advanced forces. To conclude, the SRS is ideological and programmic against discrimination, but the law in this form in which it is presently in front of us, which is full of contradictions and failures, is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15650	Thank you. The SRS has 31 minutes left. Now we'll take a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15651	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the debate in principle in the afternoon of the session, and in the order of the Members of the Parliaments declared for debate in principle. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. After that, the folk emissary of Snow White Sedlar-Kenig.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15652	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill which, of course, like many others, has not left the indifferent public of Serbia. It could even be said that to an exaggeration he has caused a stir over the division of views on what the law carries in its segments as a message. In a public debate that was in some finality, he was preceded by an unfavorable event at the "Sava Centre", later in Kragujevac, and it is generally all about the finding that only one particular segment of the law - consideration of the rights and liberalisation of relations with freedom of expression of sexual definition was the most likely and most common reason to place division in the public of Serbia. If so, it would be a question of how comfortable the majority really have a ruling majority to pass such a law, when we have witnessed that the public has really polarised itself, that all the media have written about it, that a lot has been talked about and that finally, if we will, and some other side of the law has been drawn out in the first place - what would happen if the law were literally applied to any possible situation, which someone would have shown in terms of signs of impatience towards a certain anomaly that must be shown as such. Major efforts have been made by the professional public to show that it is not about some core psychiatric disorder, that it is about sick people, that it is not about disease, but finally about one change of habits, about a different orientation, or something that was once defined as a qualitative instinct disorder. It has already been stated from this pay phone that the trends of the new world order may have been slowly and slowly changing their attitude towards this social phenomenon for decades and slowly reduced it to the level of a different behaviour at the level of some kind of acceptability, which should also be pictured for the citizens of Serbia and to be tolerated. Really, if you want to show something as a matter of tolerance, then you don't have to regulate it so strictly by law, because if it's a matter of tolerance, then it's impossible, if someone turns out to be, it has to be said that a lot of people who can't, at least at first, accept it, then how is someone going to be so single and drastically punished -- if they show some kind of intolerance? How will intolerance be understood? Will the trustee, who appears here as a person who has the right to protect those who feel that their rights are at stake, in relation to those who threaten these rights, appreciate it and in what way? When will the person turn to the court? Will the court be entitled to material damage, i.e. the material compensation of the damage that has been done - these are all questions that will need to be opened for a moment and know about it? So, we with one big reserve, if the amendments to the laws that we have tabled are not accepted, we can engage in a debate and say that this is an extremely democratic issue, namely the lack of a democratic issue that has not been resolved, in order to come a step closer to entering Europe. Of course, in Serbia we have much more serious problems at this time than someone has suggested - that this is the key and the only missing law to make us all better. We must be aware of the fact that the strict implications of the law bring, say, the head of the school into a very unfavourable position. What if one of the organizations or religious sects or some kind of organization of a homosexual association asks him to hold workshops or to hold, say, lectures in the student parliament or, say, see teachers who, holding hands, men with men, women with women, come to classes, private socialize? Now encouraged, they report that they are who they are, because the law protects them. How is this going to apply to educational institutions in a pedagogical, educational sense, let's say institutions that are closed-type -- juvie homes, various, let's say, what do I know, boarding schools, etc.? Everywhere there was an opportunity for a situational display of different abnormalities, would they be encouraged? How, in a member of the show, is equal to the right to take public space, if he wants a group, say, a fan to come out the same day as a gay parade? With the police, it could be a buffer zone. Will someone come, or some NGO, politically deficient, to support, to file a report - against each other, we can already guess who against whom and how this will go in the practical implementation of the law? We are, of course, asking other questions because many of the rights are compromised, even as the rights of quite regular groups -- right in education. Take, for example, a problem with Ranilug, where students of Serbian language and literature are unable to continue schooling in the third and fourth years of their studies, because their dean, Mr. Malikovic, who received approval from the minister of education to continue with the start of the study programme, to verify the exams, to give students a chance to continue, lost their right. They entered the second semester, this is the summer semester, without the right to receive student loans, without the right to continue their studies, without the right to verify their semester -- these are serious problems. What is now in front of us, this bill of law, with all the public debate that preceded it, is being thrown into the corner of another problem, and sometimes the public wonders justifiably - is it perhaps a background, one of the media-rich issues that will focus all of this on just one thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15653	Mr. MP, your group's time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15654	I thank you, since I didn't know exactly how much time there was left. The rest will be presented during the discussion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15655	The word is a folk letter from Snow White Sedlar-Kenig. The time available for the G17 parliamentary group plus is five minutes. After that, MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15656	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this draft law on the ban on discrimination, in my deep opinion, is a good legal document that will have great importance for the achievement and protection of human rights and the freedom of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The very word "discrimination" comes from the Latin word "discrimination," which means "determination," "separate, create legal inequality, separate someone because of diversity." There is a need to take a historical look at discrimination, connect it to the past, and not so long ago. In the world's most developed countries, for example in the United States, etc., where up to 20, 30, 40 years ago discrimination was absolutely permitted and such behaviour was considered normal. A citizen, who by race, half, disability or some other personal property was in a subordinate position, so it was because it was because the legislation of those countries allowed it. Today we are witnesses, in the 21st century, that for only 20-30 years, so much has been done in the legal regulation of these developed countries that it is simply a moral imperative to ban discrimination everywhere, absolutely, in the world. I would refer to the constitutional basis of the adoption of this law, which the minister really well explained, so Articles 1, 21 and 76 of our Constitution are the basis for this law. I have to admit, there may be a reverse order of law-making that concerns discrimination. Otherwise, an extremely good Law on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, banned in 2006, which was also praised from the aspect of Europe's modern legal science, is considered to be one of the best in Europe, has dealt with the issue of people with disabilities extremely well. In my knowledge, it's still being done in that area. It is currently a matter of standardising the character expressions of deaf people and soon a law on the use of the sign language of deaf persons will be passed. Also, I know it's about the adoption of a regulation that applies to the use of blind person guide dogs. In any case, this law as a roof law is also needed because domestic legislation is in a partial way in different areas concerning discrimination regulated, but indeed quite selective and segmentally, the issue of discrimination of persons with certain personal properties. In my opinion, the law has, first of all, two objectives. The first is general, to determine what it is to be discriminatory, what it must not be done, what it is forbidden to do, and also to list specific forms of discriminatory behaviour. The second objective of this law is, above all, to enable effective legal mechanisms to protect victims of discrimination. So he unequivocally puts the benefits of the law to the victims of discrimination all that they can use in the process of protecting their rights, as well as addressees, or bodies that will apply this law, such as courts and other public institutions, what they can and what they should do to protect victims of discrimination. I would particularly refer to the particular forms of discrimination that are mentioned, although time does not allow me, to what is very important to me in this law, which is to restrict one’s right in view of age, i.e. the right to employment of persons older than 45 and 50 years, respectively. I can say that among them extraordinary experts. Their CVs are very rich, and they're not the ones who don't understand the principle of lifelong learning. (President: National MPs, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15657	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15658	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about this law, we use the syntax that it's a roof law. I'd say it's a basic law that regulates one of the central issues of our society, the question of human rights. I will remind you that the 20th century, after the completion of the totalitarian regimes, at the heart of human civilization, I can freely say, has put human rights as a priority. No matter what the priorities of the international plan change from time to time, at one point it's ecology, in the other it's energy, human rights remain in every case the UN's priority and all relevant international organisations, and therefore it is necessary, among other things, to open this topic up, to round it normically and to have one broad affirmative, not only national, but social action under this law. I will only briefly remind myself that this law is based not only on the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia but also on relevant international documents, and above all on the Charter of UN, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Civil and Political Rights Pact, the Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, etc., as well as on relevant documents of the Council of Europe and other European institutions. We as a society can still, freely say, certain segments of our society promote certain values that are certainly not on the course of these documents, not a single general trend in all countries and in the environment and in Europe at all. Traditionalism and conformism are features of some societies that are static, which have no intention of changing. Usually, such societies wander historically, socially, and culturally. We as a society that predicates to be part of the family of European nations, which is, I may say, freely, in the tradition of political systems that existed before us in Serbia, must certainly have such an important document, which represents in a certain way the Charter of Human Rights, although it is formally-legal to adopt this law on the protection of discrimination. I am sorry that we cannot reach a greater consensus as representatives of the citizens, us 250 MPs, but in any case an affirmative action that we must launch in terms of the protection of human rights is necessary. Priority and starting point and starting point, it is the central place of active policy that the institutions of the system should have. So it's not just a legislative, normative framework, and that's the law we need to adopt, I need to say, after this law and the adoption of a series of other laws. It is discriminatory for our legislation on protection against discrimination and to say fragmented. We have already heard and you all know that we have certain forms of these norms in the Labour Act, in the Law on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, in the Law on the Position of National Communities, in certain laws in the field of basic and middle education, but in any case one framework, which is this law, should exist. The democratic political culture, in which human rights are based, is therefore our priority. On the one hand, we can leave the old status quo and that certain trends that are depicted in xenophobia, in the slavery of dogma, in a certain kind of social and political autism, to exist and to develop and modify. On the other hand, we have opportunities, we have an obligation to pass one regulation that, by banning discrimination, is about to promote human rights. Human rights are a broad term. It's not just minority rights, the rights of ethnic communities, it's women's rights, it's the rights of persons with disabilities, it's the rights of people who are different from us. Democracy is not only respect for the will of the majority, it is democracy and respect for the minority, whether it is political, sociological, sexual minority or any other. That is why the ZES parliamentary group strongly supports such a single project. It is necessary for our legal system, it is one step not only towards regulatory convergence with EU standards, which is also of important interest, but I don't think it comes first. We always say that this is the last in a series of laws needed for a white Schengen list, but it is not of primary importance, it is of primary importance to create a legislative framework in which human rights will be raised to one universal level, one level of relic, I can say freely, on which we will further build our legal system. For this reason, I call on all MPs, and those parliamentary groups who, during the debate, have in principle criticised certain provisions of this law, to actively take part in the debate on amendments and to come up with the best solutions. So the law banning discrimination is one, I can say freely, of the most important laws in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15659	The word has been given by MP Boris Aleksic, followed by MP Vesna Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15660	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, I must disappoint the representatives who support this law, because their appeal to Western liquids is not adequate, first of all because the most modern trend in the West is the denial of human rights, primarily through so-called. Anti-terrorist legislation. I can cite the example of Guantanamo, I can cite an example of investigations conducted in the European Parliament, concerning the secret prisons of the CIA, which they established, before they were interrupted, without being completed, that they were kidnapped citizens of EU Member States and taken in an unknown direction, including in Guantanamo and elsewhere. Even an English thinker said that the latest anti-terrorism legislation in Great Britain was abolished by Habeas Corpus Acti Magna Charta libertatum. Magna Charta libertatum is a document from the beginning of the 13th century, from 1215. As you know, in your common law system the English often refer to it. So that's the first thing I wanted to point out. The second thing, which is very important to me, which is related to Mr. Minister, who is here with us today, I think Mr. Svetozar Ciplic attended the 2008 award of the fight against discrimination, which was awarded to a certain Dinko Gruhonjic, who publicly advocated the independent Vojvodina and the fight against "Serbian evil". There is an open question here whether this man calls for national and religious hatred. Instead, he won the Serbian government award. Minister Ciplic also praised and rewarded the same year 2008 " Women in Black", which in their statement, as of 25 September 2000, have accused Serbia of aggression against BiH. I can now ask Mr. Minister if he knows what acts of the UN organization define aggression as a concept. It's a resolution. "The Black Women" accused Serbia, as a state, of organising a crime on September 13th. They get a reward, they get help from the Serbian state. The same organisation accused the Milosevic regime and its landscape satellites and Serbian intellectual elite on 4 August for the anniversary of the criminal "Storm" regime, instead of Tudjman's regime. Such people were praised by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. So they accused the extermination of the Serb people in Republika Srpska, which was a UNPA zone, a UN-protected zone, of being guilty of ethnic cleansing because they survived genocide. It's not hard to prove a dolus specialis, I hope the minister knows what I'm talking about, quoting one part of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime. What do women in black do next? Their representative, Stasa Zajovic, praised by the minister, says the following, and this should also be heard by Sladjan Mijaljevic: "The Orthodox Christians are allowed to kill those who are not Serbs. The command "do not kill" refers exclusively to Serbs, not others. Imagine this kind of morbidity. So, a person who gives such pointless, idiotic statements gets commendation from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Mr. Minister, it would be better to make sure that budget spending is spent through the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and whether you receive accounts from all beneficiaries of the budget, which receive funds through the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. When it comes to practice in the United States regarding homosexual marriages and homosexuality at all, let me point out some of the latest details. It is related to Article 21 of the Law, 4 November 2008, in the same election as the President of the United States, citizens of the state of Arizona, California and Florida voted in constitutional amendments that banned homosexual marriages. The California campaign, a strong standoff for homosexuality, was launched by the humble Paterson family, provoked by aggressive homosexual propaganda. The homosexual lobby even asked for the terms such as "mother and father", "mom and dad" to be thrown out of the barrels and textbooks, and to use instead exclusively the more correct terms "partner" or "partners". We're probably familiar with that in so-called. The gay marches, the marches of pride, the gay lobbyists carry pictures of Christian saints, under which they say that these or those saints are homosexuals, and those or those of lesbian saints. That's what's going to happen to us, gentlemen, it's an experience from America. Although the Democratic Party of the United States is ahead in protecting homosexual rights, Obama's voters have taken the view that homosexuality is a rich man's party. And indeed, according to US research, the average income of homosexual households is $55,000 and the average heterosexual household is $36,000. The real background of this story is that it's one big industry. The total purchasing power of homosexuals in the United States is estimated to be $600 billion and 25 billion in the UK. Only on the journeys of homosexuals, the homosexual communities they organize in the United States, spend $54 billion a year. Because of this, homosexuals have a strong influence on the Congress, but also on the Hollywood industry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Nikola Tesla said a long time ago, "If you want to enslave one nation, it's only enough to replace his paradigm." This law is the propagation of a new ideology, a new age of ideology. This law is a promotion of quasihomosexualism and quasitransexualism. This law defends the most inextricable people. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, visiting the show "The Imprint of the Week", said that it is impossible to conclude in the SPC a marriage between a Roman Catholic spouse and a Orthodox spouse unless a Roman Catholic mate becomes Orthodox. It's the idiotism of your kind. Whoever took a look at the book of religious science in elementary school knows that the SPC does not ask Roman Catholics to move to Orthodoxism to conclude marriage in the Orthodox Church. That's how much you've been informed and that's how much you've even consulted the Minister of Faith. So that's the first proof of intricacies. Next, you mix homosexuals and transsexuals defending this law. Do you even know the difference between homosexuals and transsexuals? Transsexuals are, by their nature, heterosexuals. That's why they're harder to change their sex, because homosexual relationships are unbearable to them. Furthermore, you have not stated at all that we have exceptional experts when it comes to transsexualism, and among psychologists, and among endocrinologists, and among surgeons, that the scientific method has shown what transsexualism is, but what is quasitransexualism, what is quasihomosexualism. Science proved it. There are certain prenatal disorders, but the assessment of such people is almost negligible, up to 2%. These others are so-called. quasitransexuals, quasihomosexuals, posaginal homosexuals. The new evidence of intricacies is a famous member of the 13th. It's a bill of law. For God's sakes, you, as a serious form of discrimination, predicted a crime of genocide, ethnic cleansing and apartheid. The Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide was adopted in 1948. Why do you think, Mr. Minister? Because the world nations or the UN coalition, which was formed in 1942 as an anti-fascist coalition, understood what genocide was. They figured out how many nations, how many countries he hit, they realized his peril. He's not the most serious crime. The most serious crime is a crime that Boris Tadic's regime will never mention, which is a crime against peace, because it stems from all other crimes, but is one of the most difficult, the other in a row. So, they met, they made this convention, just so that at the international level, at the highest possible level, they would predict genocide and its punishment as the most difficult form of crime. You're predicting this as a serious form of discrimination, there's no basis, you're predicting criminal punishment, you're violating human rights, you're breaking the Convention on Genocide that we signed in 1948. You put the crime apartheid here. Do you know what apartheid is? Col. Martinovic said he was tied to South Africa, to violence committed by the white minority over the black majority. Do you know what kind of crime that is? You don't know. Apartheid is a crime against humanity, the UN Convention on the Penalty and Prevention of Crimes, has placed apartheid in a crime against humanity. As you know, our criminal laws and genocide and apartheid are meant to be a crime. Also, I would remind you that our country is the founder of the UN, has also signed the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination that was brought in 1965. We ratified it back in 1967, a long time ago. When we talk about Article 21, I have to remind you that according to the international classification of ICD 9, it's an older version, that there's no confusion, I won't hide the data, homosexuality is defined as a disorder, so if you take an English medical dictionary, you'll see that there's no difference between disorder and disease. According to the most recent classification of ICD 10, homosexualism has been left out, is not listed as a disorder, and everyone is clear that the homosexual lobby has done its job. Now we're reaching some height, you're attacking the SPC. The SPC violates human rights, violates this, violates that. People, the SPC, as early as the 13th century, introduced the Ombudsman by the law of the Holy Sava. Are you aware of that? Special sight, special order of priests, so-called The abominables had an obligation under the law of the Holy Sava to represent themselves before the authorities, in front of the state authorities of the poor and oppressed people. They had an obligation to protect them from the violence of the rich, from the violence of the powerful, from the violence of aristocracy, it's the fluid of our Orthodoxy, it's the flow of the SPC. The legislation, by the way, is called in the Russian people of Krmci, because it governs the state. The first elements of constitutionality appear and are later confirmed by Dusan's code. Dushan's code, which guarantees judges the right to judge freely. You've abolished the Law of Judges, you've foreseen re-election, and that, on the grounds that the judiciary is ineffective, that it doesn't arrest drug dealers. How to arrest drug dealers when the biggest drug dealer is your protected witness. How is that even possible, when he can do whatever he wants and has a police escort, he's in direct contact with the Colombian mafia. You don't let the court do its job. After all, who is the political branch of the government, the executive power to assess the work of the judicial branch of power. According to legal theory, only experts can assess the work of judges, only judges can assess the work of judges. Who are you people? Who is executive power, you cannot interfere with the work of the judicial branch of power. The executive and legislative branches are the government's political branches. The judiciary branch of government is the only expert branch of government. You can't interfere with the work of a judge. By interfering with the work of judges, the legislative body, you are putting under control the legislative and judicial branch of power. You create depraved power, introduce totalitarianism. Your ideology, among other things, is being promoted everywhere. You don't pay attention to discrimination against women. You're talking about homophobia. What about hating women? You're talking about gay rights. Look at this, how many women came back from maternity leave and got fired. Let's just say, Delta Holding, how many women got fired. It happened that a woman in the middle of Belgrade had a bandit fall on her back, and she had only had a child in her arms. It was luck, they fell into the mud, so they survived. Telecom, whose head is DS, not to name that man, wouldn't pay the damage. The mother who held the child in her arms almost died. That's how you protect women's rights. You have the right to protect women from discrimination under the Labour Act. Don't make up that you need a new law to protect women's rights. Women whose pregnancy is at risk are going to be pregnant. You have introduced that they get to maintain their pregnancy 65% of the salary, Gilas has now fixed it in Belgrade, although it was announced for half last year. He did it at the beginning of this year. What about the rest of Serbia? How many people are employed under the contract, for jobs for which the firm has a constant need? Why isn't the inspection doing his job? The inspection can't get into the big companies. You're afraid of Miskovic, you're afraid of Beck, you're afraid of Bank of America. That's one agricultural bank, that's what I call it, that's what Mary Lynch bought. Mary Lynch has a 25% stake in one of our companies. Do you know how these Americans treat employees in that company? They curse them, they deny them all rights, they have no right to write, they have no right to go on vacation. No one's counting on them for hours. Did you take care of that? The Balkan investments are at stake. Special court of war crimes, source of discrimination and racism. It's almost exclusively haunted by Serbs, it's normal for you, only Serbs. Vladimir Vukcevic comes out and says, we have not identified criminals who have committed crimes against Serbs. And on the Serbian government site, the White Paper was published in 2003, which identified all the perpetrators of the crimes he was talking about. Only now, under media pressure, does he launch some investigations into crimes against Serbs, although we know that Serbs were the most injured. Not to exemplify little Alexandra Zec, a 12-year-old girl who was first killed in Zagreb, brutally murdered with her mother and father in 1991 in the middle of Zagreb. I'd talk about torture in Bondsteel, because that's where organ extraction operations were most likely, I don't have time, I want to leave my colleagues the opportunity to talk too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15661	The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Jerkov, followed by a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15662	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and People's Parliament, we have before us a law that is actually the measure of democracy of the Republic of Serbia and the measure of democracy of society in which we live today. This confirms the foundations of human rights based, above all, on equality which is the basis of modern democratic societies, modern democratic flows and which is actually the foundation of the freedom of every individual living in the Republic of Serbia. I think the time we've left behind, which is the time of the 1990s, is best talked about what all hate and discrimination can produce in our society. I think that time has shown us what can happen when hate speech is not sanctioned, when hatred is one of the legitimate means and political struggles and every other struggle that ultimately leads to different reckonings. Animosity and hatred are the biggest opponents of democracy, both in the Republic of Serbia and elsewhere in the modern developed world. This law must therefore be a threat to no one. He can only be a confirmation that this country and we all intend to stand behind anyone who's different. This is actually an opportunity for the Republic of Serbia and for us, as actors of political life, to show that we have passed the exam, to show that this present-day Republic of Serbia is different from that of the Republic of Serbia, in which everyone who is different is a threat to his rights and even to his life. We will not say that this law is a condition for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, because that is not the point of this law. The point of this law is to stand clearly and unequivocally behind each of these principles that are drawn up in this law and to show each individual that the state and the system are behind it, regardless of its personal property. Only then will we be able to say with pride that that is why we are passing this law and that because this society protects human rights and respects diversity, that this society is democratic and that is why we are going to the EU, because we belong there. The process should be reversed. We should not pass the law because of the EU, but rather go to the EU because this society belongs there, because it is democratic. It's too important this law to justify it by putting it on the white Schengen list. Of course, our citizens should travel, of course they should be able to get out of the country under easier circumstances, but also, when they go to Europe, they should show that we are part of that Europe and not just on paper, but on the principles that we care about in this country. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia and in our public these days, the law is allowed to be presented in a way that does not suit a serious democratic state. It is allowed to give greater importance to certain groups, whose discrimination is prohibited in this law, than others. This is why we need this law, because in the last few days there have been so many hate speechs in this congregation, because there have been so many quasi-sciences, quasi-logical and quasi-medical arguments that it does not resemble any serious society and any serious parliament. This law would not be necessary if there were no discrimination and laws applied to all in the same way, but, unfortunately, that is not the case. That's why I'm going to confirm once again that this law is more necessary than anyone else. I think we even let the discriminators get justice and explain to them that they won't answer under this law. Well, unfortunately, it will. According to this logic, criminals who fear what they will live on should be taken away from them from the property they acquired in an illegal way, to be justified and to explain to them that it will not apply to them. Well, he will. The essence of this law is actually equality and the essence of this law is the creation of a system that will enable the effective protection of those whose rights are threatened, because individuals or groups put themselves above the Constitution of this country and above the laws of this country. The practice of an apology will be interrupted. It's a category that's needed, but not enough, to free the discriminator from guilt. Once we adopt this law, it won't be enough for someone to apologize for breaking the law, for breaking the Constitution, and for that, they'll have to answer. This law is in line with the obligations that we have made ourselves, but above all it is in line with the moral obligations that we, as political actors in this country, have towards the citizens of this country and the obligation to protect each individual, regardless of the personal properties defined by this law. These days the arguments of those who are calling on religious communities could be heard. However, with all due respect for the churches, anyone who calls on religious communities and the number of believers they have should know that many believers who are part of these religious communities are very far from the attitudes that individuals today try to promote on behalf of all of us. After all, many members of these religious communities themselves are very often victims of discrimination. Should it be mentioned that in front of the mosque in Belgrade today there is a "marica" every time a religious service is performed there. Anyone who is against this law should consider whether he will once in his life be in a position to be in a minority, to be discriminated against. If nothing else, at least everyone will fall under the provisions of Article 23 prohibiting discrimination against the elderly and then they will understand the need for this law. The justice that arises in these amendments, which are mostly reduced to the fact that it is not yet time for such a law to be passed because in many of the provisions that this law will regulate, are unacceptable. These arguments are similar to the arguments that it has not yet been time to provide women in Afghanistan and allow them to go to the hospital when they are sick or stop cutting off their hands if they wear fingernails on their hands, because the Taliban community didn't understand it at that time. This law has therefore been prepared in accordance with the highest acts. There were public debates, he got a positive opinion from all the relevant ministries and committees, civil society, experts, and I think that any MP who is against this law is actually against the principles of equality, is to violate human rights and propagate hate, throws dust into our eyes and fights for a system of values that unfortunately left us with the legacy of the regime of the '90s. Anything less than this law would be a choice, which we're going to discriminate on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15663	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The minister asked for a word, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure is required by MP Suleiman Spaho. You have the advantage after the previous speaker has finished. The Rules of Procedure provide you with an advantage. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov has completed, and you want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get the word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15664	I'm referring to Article 104. The speaker presented the lie because she said that in front of the Belgrade mosque, when rituals were performed, there were marica and police. That's not true. As a Serbian Muslim creed, I say the speaker claims that relations between Muslims in Belgrade and Serbs are excellent, excellent co-operation, even the Orthodox church and the Islamic community co-operate well. That's not true. He who accepts his own solution, and for this speaker is something that is not true, especially as far as religious communities are concerned, you must, Madam President, condemn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15665	People's MP, no violation of article 104, and you've been given the word so you've misused the right to receive the word. It is the right of every MP in his own way, with the argument he considers good for his exposure, to use it as he defends his position as speaker of the National Assembly. You have no right to speak of what is the position of the second Messenger of the people. We listen very carefully to each other. People's MP, please don't throw it away. You said a very important injury that doesn't exist. By misusing the Rules of Procedure, you've been given a word. We cannot challenge each other's right to not speak for two minutes as we know it. The right to free word and free interpretation is undeniable. The word has the minister of human and minority rights, Mr Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15666	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable MPs, what matters to me is that this is where the debate is being held. I have to choose from everything and a lot of things I've said about the law, and I'm authorized to do it, and it's my idea to answer. Attacking the SPC, that's the first time I've heard of it here, and about the law banning discrimination, assaulting the SPC by state authorities. It is simply not true, as it is not true that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia were in conflict with the SPC or any other church or religious community, which intervened and caused the government to withdraw the law ten days ago. That's proof that we're not in conflict, that's proof, as are these members here who have been processed, that we had an idea to come to a compromise and to come to a consensus. It was extremely important for us, regardless of what we suffered in public as a government critic, to reach this consensus and compromise, as it was important for us to enter into the procedure after six years of this law and as we believe this law will be passed. I wouldn't want you to, about the notorious things that you and we both know, in any way, come to a conflict. What I'd like to confront or face is about legal solutions. The principle is that if you quote something, you quote exactly, so to read it. This ministry did not award rewards for fighting discrimination, but rather presented rewards related to an anti-discrimination prize funded and organised by someone else. A group of NGOs traditionally award prizes for fighting discrimination. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not given a single dollar for this prize this year or the previous years. The point is, the quote has to be a quote. So, to be literally read. Experts have been consulted, and if we can say so, they are used to draft this law on banning discrimination, not only regarding Article 21, but related to all members, which legally, which experts who know what work is and social policy. Don't forget, this law as promotes both this ministry and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. So, it's wide-ranging and expert, and political, and resolute, so administrative basis, and what's most important when we talk is, and I'm going to make now only an exception to courts and judicial authorities, to get into legal clarification and clarification, the judicial authority that provides and which is most important for the protection of human freedoms and rights, no matter what, is political. It is an old theoretical and theoretical debate, but until the moment when parliament regulates the organisation and conduct of the judicial authority by law, it will be political by then. It's a notorious constitutional law. From there I end up with another piece of information, when I say quote it means until the end of everything to say, in 1970 the World Health Organization took homosexuality off the list of diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15667	National MP Boris Aleksic is asking for the right to replication. You have no right to a replica and no basis for obtaining the right to a replica. National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic has a word, followed by a folk MP, Marina Ragus.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15668	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, this law is anti-Serbian because it does not respect traditional moral values and the understanding of Serbian citizens and canon SPC, as well as all other religious communities in Serbia. The law draws attention from the burning problem of the Serbian state, draws attention from the white plague or the fall of birth, and thus the state of Serbia slowly but surely disappears. This law is scandalous, because by giving each other rights, the rights of others are violated. This law encourages discrimination, intolerance, and I fear, unfortunately, that it does not cause more hatred, evil and violence. As we've heard before, this law is based on the Constitution. Article 1 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates the equality of all Serbian citizens and thus prohibits discrimination. I think it's the most important member of the 21st century. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prohibits discrimination and determines that the rights before the Constitution of all citizens are equal. Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia refers to the ban on discrimination against national minorities. I would ask the minister, then why was it necessary to pass the roof law, as the ruling coalition and you call it, by emergency procedure, when in the Republic of Serbia, besides the Constitution and the members that I have already listed that prohibit discrimination, there is also national legislation, mainly with international standards, which are the basis for the international conventions? What makes this law so important, when I think there are much bigger and more important laws in Serbia today? I would like you to specify some criteria why this law is important, not just what we read in the reasoning set out in the bill. The very dangerous tendencies in this law are obvious, and they are aimed at breaking the family. The survival of our society and our country is only possible if a healthy family, which has not been hired or affected by moral erosion, survives. From the human body set, it's obvious that the basic function of the full is the extension of the species. All laws must comply with morality, ethics, and even this law. It is unacceptable to place transsexualism in the same rank with national, full, religious discrimination as serious social problems. The proposed law constitutes discrimination and the introduction of criteria of individuality over the common good. The Serbian Radical Party agrees with the demands of religious communities. The Bible condemns homosexuality as sin. As a doctor and as a neuropsychiatrist, I disagree with a colleague who talked about homosexuality so little, I'd say euphorically, but I don't want to discuss this problem with her. She has told many lies, but she has the right to have an opinion on the problem. Aversion is a natural human reaction to the idea of homosexuality being declared a normal phenomenon. People have a reluctance to aggressive propaganda, even those who have nothing against gay populations. People don't need to be forced and convinced that it's not a problem and a deviation, it's a normal state of affairs. Homosexuality never goes with itself. Homosexuality is followed by other gender deviations, such as pedophilia, sadomasochism, so that this phenomenon in some way threatens the population of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party is not homophobic, but we do not accept that someone convinces us that it is normal, as most citizens do not like. Also, we believe that public display of homosexuality is immoral and insulting to the morals of Serbian citizens. What I would ultimately like to say, which is to call on the ruling coalition to fight discrimination from this parliament, especially the fight against discrimination against the opposition political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15669	The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, followed by a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15670	Mrs. Comic, I'd just like you to tell me how much time there is left for the parliamentary group. (President: I've stopped your time. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is nine minutes and 10 seconds. Here you go from the beginning. ) Then I will really do my best, since Mrs Pop-Lazic is on the list, that very quickly and briefly, in some time that is tolerable for colleagues from the ruling majority, possibly two minutes, I do indeed add some color to this topic regarding the ban on discrimination. The position of the SRS, of course, is freedom, are rights, is a rule of law and is a responsibility. If there is no responsibility, then freedoms are most often misused. However, what we do have is a certain misunderstanding, I am glad, Mr. Minister, that you are present, I suppose you will actually answer this misunderstanding, why in particular DS has waited nine years to put on the agenda a law on combating discrimination, since you are a very important partner in the exercise of power since 5 October 2000. We are here, Mrs. Comic can confirm this, repeatedly as a parliamentary group sought and initiated, after the initial confusion, that among all other committees, we think it is very important, if not one of the most significant committees, to form a committee for the protection of human and minority rights. If I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Comic will correct me, I don't think that board has ever been formed since the five-octobaric changes, which is startling. Indeed, I must suggest for the sake of the Serbian public that, due to the state of human rights in Serbia, 2008/2009, I assume all the coming years, that it initiates the formation of a subcommittee or possibly a group within a particular committee, such as the Committee on Gender Equality, which would be very protective of human and minority rights. Why are we talking about this? Most often when we talk about our ideological basis, which concerns the large Serbia that covers those areas from which Serbs are exiled, just to remind you, Serbs are ethnically cleared from Republika Srpska's territory. During two actions, Flash and Storm, around 400,000 Serbs were expelled. Innocent Serbs in the period of the 1992-1995 wars on the territory of Srebrenica - 6,387. So Serbs are a discriminated people in former Yugoslav spaces. We, as a sovereign state, are left to protect this right of the majority people here, and a special attitude towards Serbs in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, what is also a very important and important problem that we hope to open here as a topic is discrimination in the economic sphere, i.e. trade agreements and trade relations within Cefta. We have frantic data in relations between Serbia and Croatia, and we expect that the competent ministries will, in accordance with this anti-discrimination trend, really protect Serbian national interests. What is also important is the discrimination felt in Serbian society after so-called. democratic change, which is in the part where labour relations are being achieved, Serbian society is mostly politicised. What lies ahead of every right guaranteed by the Labour Act is belonging to a political party. These are, therefore, just some topics at this short time interval to think about. Answers to the question and dilemmas I hope to hear very soon. Now that in 2009, therefore nine years after 5 October 2000, we are talking about a ban on discrimination is the relationship of the ruling majority to discrimination. The fact that people in Serbia, who regularly lose their jobs and cannot exercise rights anywhere because institutions are essentially not functioning, and according to a report by the Council of Europe, human rights in Serbia are at a very low level, laws exist, but are not being implemented. The ruling majority's relationship, in the first place, that the Serbian Parliament, as the most legislative body, has been missing since 2000 from the Committee for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights. Thank you for your patience. I hope you will answer these dilemmas and any questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15671	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15672	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after this debate is nearing its end, and the MPs of the SRS have done their best to convey to the public our party's position on this law, which we must admit only treat certain aspects of discrimination, and some that may be even more important to push into the seal or not even mention them. Since I don't have much time, I'm just going to name some kind of discrimination that we're witnessing, and maybe even participants, to concentrate our forces on getting over it somehow, because our party's position is to fight any discrimination. I'll talk about political discrimination. In one of its members, in Article 25, this law refers in some way to a ban on discrimination because of political conviction, unless it is necessary to react, if this political belief in its programme has fascist, Nazi and racist views or some activity, which is not a feature of our political parties, at least not to these important ones affecting political life, and not to our political scene at all. I would first of all deal with discrimination against the MPs, and you have as much evidence as you want. About the discrimination of women here too, here in our house here, in Parliament, I am determined by the Committee on Gender Equality, and without this law, I am pleased with this decision that the Committee has made and I will read as it says. So, the decision says -- it condemns the inappropriate conduct and disembarkation of MP Tomislav Nikolic at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 13 February 2009, in the address of MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, who is a violation of human rights in the field of gender equality. The Committee on Gender Equality urges all MPs to address each other with dignity and respect. So we have achieved an effect without this law, Parliament has shown, or members of the board, that it is up to the situation. I'd like to talk about discrimination against citizens over what part of the territory they live in. I would mention citizens of KIM who are discriminated against, have no basic, elemental conditions for life, electricity, water, for days. No one's doing anything about it. So, are we and how are we going to protect them with this law? With this law, of course, we won't be able to. Discrimination based on labour rights. What's the number of unemployed? They say 750,000, with 10,000 each, according to official data, running out of work every day. Companies that already have contracts that can export their goods to these difficult conditions and can bring us 50m euros, such as "Freedom" Cačak or "arms" to Kragujevac, cannot export their goods because they cannot get export licences. I don't want to talk about apartheid, genocide, ethnic cleansing, it's a disaster to find it in this law at all, because it's not appropriate at all for our country. Political discrimination by the media. Has anyone conducted an analysis, will someone run an analysis of how much space some newly created political parties or non-governmental sectors have compared to official state authorities, not to mention political parties that have won this number of votes and that have so many citizens behind them? No one's taking care of that. We can hold a meeting with 5,000 people, for example, in a closed space (President: National MPs, time available to the SRS parliamentary group has been used. I end up, thank you, and it won't record any media, but a collection of 40 people from some newly created party will be recorded in all electronic media. It's discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15673	Since there are no more people's MPs to be reported on the lists of MPs for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. If you don't, I'll close the search in principle. We move to item 2 and 3 of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE PRESIDENTS OF THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION COUNCIL AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA (jointly single search) Unanimity decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint review of the proposals for decisions in the agenda under points 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 169(3), Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; E-mail group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so, so that we can hold a debate on the reports of the MPs. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorized them to represent the MP group of SRS MPs of Paja Momcilov and the DSS parliamentary group MP Zoran Shami. According to Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to elect the president of the National Educational Council, which was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundzi, and a proposal for a decision to elect the president of the National Bank of Serbia, who was submitted by the Finance Committee. Does the Proposer, the People's Ambassador of Hope Kolundji, want a word? No, I don't. Does the representative, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by MP Paja Momcilov, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15674	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we go from the very beginning. We today, within the framework of this Second Session of the First Session, have a debate on three points of the agenda, and this - a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Educational Council, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzi, we have a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Bank of Serbia, who has submitted the Committee on Finance. We have a united debate, and now you see how much the President of the National Educational Council and the President of the National Bank Council are the same subject - you can conclude yourself. Now we can, when it takes the congregation's majority, put in a bag of grandmothers and frogs and then conduct a united discussion. No, my God, you can do it like that. Just briefly to look back on the proposal, is that right, the decision to elect a president of the National Bank of Serbia Council. The National Bank of Serbia Council received its five new members in September last year, as most of you are likely to know. Most of you are probably aware that the governor of the National Bank, someone mentioned him here today in the afternoon debate -- a man of questionable professional abilities, a former official of Deutsche Bank. Also, most of you, at least to us Serbian radicals, are quite clear that this gentleman is an exhibit, is he, the international financial centres of power that need to control the situation in our Serbia? We received a proposal from the Finance Committee to elect President of the NBS Council Dejan Soskovic, an extraordinary professor of economic college in Belgrade. I wouldn't do a special biography of this extraordinary Professor Dejan Shoskovic. However, two or three facts that fall straight into the eyes are interesting. He's a relatively young man. He's 42 years old. He's got a biography, according to DOS, pretty rich. It shows he's been perfecting a lot in the U.S., so I don't count where and how. The one who's interested in it can see it. We, of course, MPs didn't get this biography. Anyone who wants to get to know the candidate we're supposed to vote for must personally try to get to that. Why aren't we available I don't know? But no longer to deal with this proposal, I find it more interesting to have a choice for the president of the National Educational Council for Education. You've been discussing the subject of this committee for a few days. You've made the election. 21 new members selected. We saw, watched, you voted past the Rules of Procedure, 35 seconds each. We've seen you repeat the vote. But that's what the citizens saw, and that's what you certainly can't avoid. In any case, the court of the public will be your chief verdict - that's not what I'm gonna do. We have seen that the former president of this body has been relieved and that is Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic, and we have also seen that, as collateral damage, has been suffered here by academician Milos Djuric, a prominent scientific worker. Surely, because of the paralysis that existed in the work of this body, it is not good for our heads to bear the consequences and consequences. What did Mrs. Hope Kolundji suggest to us? She proposed to us Dr Desanka Radulović, a professor, with a rich professional biography. She's got to say, she's got a really rich academic career, she's got a rich professional career. It must be acknowledged that she was also socially involved in the work that must surely be done by this counsel. Let's deal with the Council. You can see that the National Council numbers 42 members. Half of them are elected for six years. They have a mandate longer than us MPs, longer than the government? Furthermore, it is interesting that half of them, according to legal standards, should be prominent experts, and the other half do not have to - and what they should be, is still not quite clear. What is their secure function, unequivocal and most important function, these are two -- it brings directions to development of education and education in Serbia and brings forward the curricula and programmes for the level of education for which they are intended. Now let's say, most of us know, this national council is in charge of pre-school, primary and secondary education. There's a special advice for university education. What's interesting is this body should have public work. I'm asking you-- where could you be informed about the work of this national council? If we choose him as the Assembly, we should probably see on the site and inform ourselves about what they do and what decisions they make. There's no such thing in the congregation. You go to the Serbian government site, look where the materials are related to the work of this body, they're not there either. If you've been following the press, not now, but earlier, you won't be able to read anything about the work of this council. Why? You see, this advice, which has 42 members since its founding, which was in May 2005, has managed to meet twenty times. He had an obligation to report to the congregation each year about his work, which he did not fulfill. In 2006, he also submitted a report in 2009 to the Committee on Education, our Assembly, which the Committee refused. What's the problem? The problem in this latest report is that members of this national council have told one truth, which I agree with, that the situation in the Serbian state's education system is catastrophic. However, they were not self - critical and did not take part in their responsibility for the situation. The body is a paid body, members receive 40,000 compensations, and the president is 50,000 in compensation and they cost each and every 1.700,000 in this country, budgets are allocated to them. In total, the state spent on them and their activities 73 million, and they did not bring any relevant document out of their jurisdiction, and they declared themselves not competent to adopt an education strategy in the state of Serbia, a general missing strategy for which they were responsible and how we get it. Who oversees the pre-school, primary and secondary education system? Let's see what he looks like. Somewhere around 1,100,000 children are covered by this system, and we have 1,873 preschool institutions with 18,000 employees, about 3,500 regular elementary schools, 240 special schools and 16 adult schools, 47,000 teachers, something more, and high schools have 548. Not to classify which species, we have, which is interesting, a small number of private schools. In recent days, you have been able to read in the media that the Enlightenment Union, one of the unions representative, has come out with the fact that there are 17,000 extra employees in the system and that this is something that is unsustainable and unacceptable to the system. The Minister of Education agreed with that, with a specific number, and he said, again, what our press recorded, that there would be no layoffs in that system and that there would be modes and ways for all employees to remain in the system. Despite these networks, Serbia has 1,400,000 illiterate, only 6.5% have higher education. Why does it matter, I'll try to say it later. Let's just look at the Ministry. Over 500 employees work at the Ministry. The same ministry has two secretary of state, seven assistants and two advisors. The entire system should also be cared for by the following institutions: Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, Institute for Improving Education and Education with Four Organizational Units, Centre for Strategic Development, Center for Development of Programs and textbooks, Centre for Professional Development of Employees and Centre for Professional and Art Education. So there are institutions in the country of Serbia that could do these jobs that have not been done, as far as the education system is concerned, I primarily think about the education strategy in the state of Serbia. What does the Dossier System mean? It implies increasing the number of employees in the state administration. Just to remind you, at the time of the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, who was criticised for the largest number of ministers, there were 35, the current government has 26. The total number of officials was 70 to 150, depending on the time interval, and today you have, if we look at these officials, which are assistants, state secretaries and advisors, 232 officials. If you're looking at the entire administration that serves the ministries and government, then out of 8,000 employees in 2000, you have 28,000 today. Why am I saying this? More than 28,000 people receive salaries from the budget. Do you know how much they receive? They're receiving 10% of gross national income. What's interesting is this administration is formed in party membership and solidarity. It is known that professional qualifications here are not decisive, but belonging to a particular party. It's our reality to face. You often say that you are Europeans and that you want to join the EU. You deceive people, citizens of Serbia. You're not Europeans, you're financing a European path, you're mocking your actions, next time, and I'm trying to prove it. The European space, if we look through the decisions of the Council of Europe, in 2000 brought in one document, the Lisbon document, setting out clearly and precisely what it wants to achieve by 2020. He said - the goal by 2010 is for Europe to become the world's leading economic power that will enable sustainable development and social cohesion. How? Using and implementing knowledge. We certainly know that the 21st century has been declared a century of knowledge and we will surely agree on what is specific in the 21st century, so this globalisation is specific. Of course, we criticise her bad aspects and are always ready to point to them. We have information and communication technologies that have developed rapidly, we have knowledge management and it is particularly important in all of this to see how Europe imagines achieving these goals to be a planetary leading economic operator, with the help of knowledge. She says this - first of all, the quality of education must be improved at all levels, that easy access should be made to all social layers of that education and, of course, talks about opening all systems to the world. It is believed that in 2010, according to the Lisbon agenda, nearly 50% of new jobs will require a territorial level of education, and we have 6.5% of people with high professional training. Almost 40% are thought to require secondary education, and about 10% will be sufficient for primary school. Can our system respond to these forecasts and these challenges facing developed European countries, I ask you. In primary education, Europe has clearly defined seven objectives. Guidelines must be adopted for the formation of reference indicators, action plans must be adopted and enforcement monitoring must be carried out. I ask you in the country of Serbia, where are the indicators, indicators of the education system? Where can we see them? Where's the action plan to achieve the goal? Where's the check and evaluation of what's been achieved? Gentlemen, this is Europe. You don't do all this, you're just talking, you're just singing a song that's already getting corny and almost amazing. Give the indicators, give the action and give the evaluation. What are these principles? First decentralisation, autonomy of educational institutions and strengthening responsibility towards parents and children in the system. Ensuring teachers from 20 to 100 hours of continuous education during one year, Europe says. Where are your 100 hours of continuous teaching teachers and teaching staff? Quality assurance is another thing, which is provided by self-control of the facility itself and external control through tests and tests. Where are your interrogation tests? Where are your self-control methods? It's Europe. What you're doing, what you're just talking about Europe, it's stifling and it's mocking both Europe and the citizens of Serbia. Quality assurance with 16 indicators is monitored in four areas. First, achievements in mathematics, native language, general sciences, information technologies, foreign languages are seen, success and transition to a higher level, an analysis of the participation of interested groups of parents, who should be the main ones in the analysis of the results and what is achieved in schools. Where are our parents involved by you, in which bodies? Where can they say what they think? There's advice in schools, and I'm talking about higher levels. Equipment and structure of educational institutions. Where can we see the equipment of our facilities? Where can we see the structure? Gentlemen, it's Europe, it's not what you won't let us talk about. You don't let us speak exactly so we don't bring this up, so you don't get disguised in front of the citizens of Serbia, and that's the reason for your tyranny of the majority, and that's why you're adopting a restrictive Rules of Procedure that you abuse yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15675	National MP, 20 minutes have passed, the time available to you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Zoran Shami, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15676	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the last session we had the agenda point – The selection of members of the National Education Council and, as some natural continuation of this work, we have at this session the election of the President of the National Educational Council. In the last session, I presented the DSS's views on the selection of the National Educational Council and today would probably not have advertised that what happened yesterday in the vote for members of the National Educational Council, at least to me personally, and also to many of my colleagues, did not leave a very bitter taste in my mouth. First of all, I am not going to comment on how much the National Educational Council is, at least as it is imagined in the law, one very important state institution, an institution that should be anything but political, which should be, above all, high-level, and then also represent the conscience of this society in such an important sphere as education. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that part of the agenda at the last session, and this part of the agenda at this session, has a completely wrong title. Dear friends, this is not a selection of the National Educational Council, this is a choice of educational council of the ruling majority. Unfortunately, yesterday we chose 23, I'm not going to say, honest people, among them are those with very nice biographies, but unfortunately we chose them not because of these biographies but because of, let me say, the party similarities of the ruling majority. That was completely clear. If you had, too, at least done it with some style, I would have understood it, but you were insolent and completely counter-businessally repeating the vote, where the only reason for repeating the vote is that someone who was to be elected didn't get in the first wave enough votes, was in the election in some other categories, by some other points. In doing so, humiliating the very ones chosen in the extreme line, not to say that yesterday's procedure in the Assembly had to be quite offensive to many honest and very high-quality people, who were not chosen, but did not get the chance to vote for them. Let me remind you: only the ruling majority sat here at the time of the vote. No one else could have made sense to sit down after the circus that took place in Mrs. Sonja Licht's election. What I'm saying is that what we did yesterday is no good. There's nothing wrong with it, because it's not good for my party or any other party, or it's good for some third party, but it's nothing that's wrong for the country of Serbia and its education that's not good. Introducing the practice of choosing candidates for the ruling majority in the bodies of the National Educational Council, and such bodies are still, fortunately, in this country, we are actually introducing a practice that every next congregation majority, regardless of who did, will probably do the same. So we will have the practice that each next congregation majority will replace the current president of some educational council, and choose someone new, etc. However, I am currently risking that the chairman, probably with the right, resents that I am not actually talking about the agenda point, because at the agenda point is the election of the president and such an educational council. Let me tell you right now, I'm not doing it on purpose, because the whole procedure that's been conducted in this room, even though I already told you, there was a way, and unfortunately, I was trying on the Education Committee to introduce this way to talk about candidates, to get some consensus. By reading their biographies, there were very good candidates. Some of them have been chosen, but unfortunately many of them have not been chosen. It's a shame, I won't say for this party or that party, it doesn't matter, it's, of course, a pity for the country of Serbia. The only hope left for me and the DSS is that there will be a better and more reasonable time, that Serbia and this one, as well as other areas, will come to our senses and that one day we will get the true heirs of Dosseti Obradovic. These are not the heirs of Dosite Obradovic. By the way, the proposed candidate certainly didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15677	The word has a national message from Hope Kolundji, an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15678	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to remove in some way some suspicion that has fallen on people who, throughout this story, become victims of inter-party controversies. I would like to remind you that the National Educational Council chooses the Serbian Assembly on the basis of a proposal from 18 national institutions. So 18 national institutions sent their proposals, based on the law, and sent them because the law provides that they should be selected for different time periods, so as to achieve continuity and at the same time change the composition, so that at the same time they would not be replaced by the whole composition of the new one, so some of them ended the mandate, which they were elected for three years, so we now choose them, etc. We did not replace anyone because of political will or political inadequacy, we replaced them because, under the law, they expired their mandate and we were obliged to, as the competent authority that made the choice on the basis of the proposal submitted by the national institutions, do the job within the legal time limit. That's what I wanted to say this time. If you think that the votes 126 or 127 automatically glued party labels to these people, then I think that we are all hurting one important national institution, such as the National Educational Council, because neither was their desire to be candidates on this basis, nor was it their desire to be based on party membership, sympathy or anything else related to parties, to accept that they are doing this job which, we all agree, is a very important job in a country where there is a serious reform of the education system, a country in which there are many problems related to education. I understand and understand that there is a common good intention to make one such important national institution worthy of Obradovic's Dosite. What may now be a question for Serbia: how many Dosite Obradovica have in this time and did she have more than one at that time? I want to believe that the national institutions have proposed the best candidates and that we have agreed against their proposals on those candidates that we have shown by voting to have a majority. That opposition MPs didn't want to be in the O.R. and show their voices that maybe there are candidates they think are better than the ones we chose, that's a question for the opposition, not for us. We have chosen those we, on the basis of a proposal from 18 national institutions, in the deep belief that they will be able to do this job in the best interests of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15679	People's MP Zoran Shami is looking for a replica. You have no right to a replica. The word has been given by MP Zoran Shami, as the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15680	Madam President, Mrs Kolundzija, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that in this House we are not the ones who can assess whether there is a Dosite Obradovic. The problem is, the way the current ruling majority does, and if they did, we wouldn't have noticed them. Secondly, that's not the point, and it's not that we here have to vote on this. The thing is, and your colleagues on the Committee could tell you that, and they probably told you, that I insisted that the Committee go out with some objective advice to the Assembly, simply reading biographies. It is not disputed that political parties did not propose candidates, they proposed appropriate institutions, although through those institutions, the question of who was in the position. I'm not quite sure anyone who deserves it could be offered. This depends little on the structure of the promoter, etc., that I am not getting into this right now. In any case, the way that it was done yesterday, with a dozen re-votes, and the only basis was that the candidate who "needs" to be elected didn't get enough, so we're going to vote until he gets enough, but in the debate on that kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure now I don't want to go in. In any case, it is not good this way to choose the National Educational Council, and it is actually not good this way to choose the President of the National Educational Council. It was necessary to look at the biographies and these yesterday's chosen ones and those chosen three and a half years ago, and to assess who it is that has a large enough gauge to run the National Educational Council so that the country of Serbia, including all of us, can benefit from that National Educational Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15681	You have no right to a replica. National MP Zoran Shami did not take advantage of the time available to him as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15682	I point out Article 27's injury in relation to Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is, in fact, how the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are interpreted in this National Assembly, and how they are practically applied, and practice itself is the course of the session and the way it is chaired. So, since you are the chairman of the obligation within the meaning of Article 27 to respect this Rules of Procedure and all its provisions, I believe that your way of interpreting Article 101 is, by misreading it and violating it, because otherwise it cannot be broken except, of course, by misreading it, it can also be violated on purpose, by doing the exact opposite of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If you're misreading it, then you're breaking it. In Article 101, I hope that I will be able to explain it, it says this in paragraph 1 - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself on the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, this is the second basis, i.e. wrongly interpreting his presentation, you have one and another basis, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. In one position later, in the third position followed by this text - the decision in the cases referred to in Article 1 is made by the President of the National Assembly, the replica cannot last longer than three minutes, now it remains. The point is that the president of the National Assembly in the case of any of the chairmans, it is said that it is making a decision on this, it does not mean self-will or total arbitration. Article 1 has established the right, Madam Chairman. So when you interpret this in that sense, interpret it wrongly, if the previous speaker in his presentation unequivocally pointed to the presentation of his predecessor, and what he wants the replica, you have to give it to him. Doesn't mean this article 101. Your right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15683	Two minutes. I thank you, MP. You have misused the right under Article 100, which allows you to get word and talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I repeat point 3 - decision on the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic throws himself out of the bench and violates Article 104, I warn you that this is the basis for speaking criminal measures from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I warned you not to ask you to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure by mentioning Rule 101, because it cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, since it is a decision made by the chairman, taking care of order in the session of the National Assembly and listening carefully to what the MPs say. There is no basis for the replica in which the Messenger Zoran Shami asked for it, nor in the case for which the Messenger of the people, Pai Momchilov, sought it. When the basis for the replica is gone, the word cannot be obtained. The word has been issued by MP Zlata Djeric, the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm sorry I don't have a chance to welcome someone here from the Ministry of Education. It would really be the right place for someone from the Ministry to enlighten, and above all, the minister himself, to be present when it comes to the subject of the National Educational Council. First of all, the National Educational Council is one of the most important institutions Serbia has at this time. The National Educational Council creates an educational policy, prescribes what children at school teach, prescribes content, classes, subjects. The National Educational Council primarily deals with the resources of what Momchilov said earlier, 1,100,000 pupils in pre-school, primary and secondary education. Count that there is a direct and indirect interest in the resources of about two million people. This is three million citizens directly interested and directly dependent on the National Educational Council and its strategy. What is important in this shift and this appointment, namely the replacement of a president and the appointment of a new president of the National Educational Council, is that it is not good for this House, this House, this High House to this National Educational Council, not to be referred to by firmness, with a request or request for certain answers to certain questions and for some responsibility. If the National Educational Council is already dealing with this most significant human resource and the most significant spiritual resource Serbia has at the moment, then the National Educational Council has had to regularly, as it does or does in all European countries, as a commitment at the end of the year, and we are looking at these European countries, to report on the state of sanctification of the nation, on what it plans to do to improve that same state of sanctification of the nation. The data we've heard, read by a colleague, is devastating. Education, as one of the most significant pillars of this country and every country, is certainly quite ruined. She couldn't stand the beatings she had all over Serbia on her own. It would certainly be responsible that we have received one proposal, and one plan and a programme of candidates for the president of the National Educational Council to be declared. I expect that this man has some vision of education, that he has something concrete to offer, that he will recommend, that he be accepted, something that will ensure that not only 126 MPs vote, but 150 or 200, 220, as it has been in this house since this assembly. It is not good to treat the National Educational Council as if, before that, before that, there was a flood and that after this set, there would be a flood. Someone needs to say publicly, first of all, to this high house that declares itself about individual candidates and will make known about the president, what is done here, what is left in the heritage to a new educational council or a new council or a new president of the National Educational Council. Education is one of the most important resources. Education forms the consciousness of future generations. Education is the one where it's actually the biggest responsibility. We never may have wanted to think about education that way, we never at least made public statements about it, but education is. A member of the Educational Council was paid more than one teacher or teacher in the first, second, third grade of primary school. The hardest job, one of the hardest intellectual jobs is the teaching work in the first grade of elementary school, no matter how amazing that sounds to you. Maintaining one hour in the first grade of primary school is one of the most difficult and responsible jobs. That's why, on this National Educational Council, responsibility is also for our behavior here, for the formation of personalities that will come after us to this Parliament, for those who will propose new laws. Don't you think that this controversy we had in public about the law on discrimination is actually the result and that the National Educational Council has hidden somewhere? What we have as a commitment as this high home, or high home that he has chosen, has been voted by members of the National Educational Council, what is our obligation, is that we ask them for a regular report, to replace them for work or for lack of work, for quality jobs, for quality work tasks to be carried out publicly, to promote them as people who have done their tasks in quality, and not just as political names that will be appointed to some place where they will receive a little more tolerance than they have so far. It has to stop being a practice, at least when it comes to education. Enlightenment is what one of my professors of Philosopher's college says in his day, education is like a church, looking for a clean and whole man. There must be no such attempts in education, no such failures. In education, there must not be, above all, a lot of politics, as little politics and as much national interest as possible. If something has already been called the National Educational Council, I assume that this adjective -- national -- should talk about how this educational council will lead a national policy, a policy that will improve our nation, improve our people, improve the lives of Serbian citizens in that qualitative sense that it will make life a better and better education for those young people who come. Don't forget that's the resource we leave our future on. But speaking of which, I ask you to remember that number mentioned by Mr. Paja Momchilov, that it is 1,100,000 children, and I only supplement it with one more digit, that is another two million directly or indirectly interested parents, guardians, older brothers and sisters. We are those who have a great responsibility and a great responsibility, and despite the fact that for the appointment of the President of the National Education Council, a sufficient number of tasters, or to raise a sufficient number of hands for him to be elected, I really expect him to appear in this high home to file a report on the work, to present to us a plan of what he thinks he is doing, that this plan be subject to public criticism. Because this resource of about two million people, two million interested people, guarantees that it will get good and real suggestions. I must tell you that in our direct work education, we have never been asked or listened much before. We knew that there were some institutions, but the advice that came from education, the cries that came from education, and I don't mean the material side of education, because all of us who defined ourselves as education knew that she had been paid badly and badly forever, but she had one dignity, one dignity that we all wanted. We haven't had many good and strong relationships before. I expect the National Educational Council to have a national strategy for education and education, to make it public, to enthrone it in some way, to present it to education, to accept all the good suggestions of education that come, all the good suggestions that come from parents. First of all, I have a grudge that there are no representatives of parents in the Educational Council. It is the most important group that is directly interested in the work of the Educational Council and that this high home has the opportunity to declare itself on the plan, programme and work of the Educational Council in the future. So he promises us that he will do something and that we can follow the effectiveness of his promise. It must not be with the National Educational Council that what happens in the political options in the elections, that promises are shared by hand and hat, and that they no longer commit to anyone but when polling stations are closed. No, the Educational National Council has a long-term strategy, education reforms are very painful, very difficult, they last long, slow and their results are seen much later. Remember a few failed and bad experiments in Serbian school, remember the famous Shuvarica, and the ninth and tenth grade, and all those who came that way. Remember, this is an institution that depends much more than we allow to see at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15685	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15686	Mrs. Comic, chairman, respected citizens, respected colleagues, I will talk in the context of a united debate about the proposal for a decision on the election of the National Bank Council president. It is my job to talk about the election of Dejan Soskovic, an extraordinary professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, as President of the Council. If one of me expected to define this proposal in one sentence, this item of the agenda, I could say this -- a mouse can be genius, but if it's found in a mouse hunter, it's over with him. A mousehunter for this genius is the current monetary-credit policy and the NBS Act. The impressive biography of Mr. Šoškovic, an expert on economic statistics and financial markets above all, is quite promising. A young man, 67 years old, from the family of prominent Professor Šoškovic, whose books, I believe, almost all economic students laid the subject, we called him a Colloquial - doctrine, it's a matter of development of economic thought, and indeed a book very valuable and that I keep and day-to-day, and I took that exam at my Pristina Faculty of Economics, at a time when Pristina could live. It promises that man has views that need to respond to the moment we're in. What the expert on economic statistics is saying is that it is expected to come very seriously to use, i.e. abuse of statistics in the moments when it comes to our gross social product and I personally expect it to be a concrete example, that at a time when the IMF provided us with data in April 2008 that, based on the studies of their very professional people, the growth of the social product in our country in 2008 will be the maximum power of 4%, and we are in our own, not only the planning documents, as a memorandum, but also in the budget, we have built on the projection that this social product will grow 7%. It speaks of the importance of statistics that makes it impossible for those who want to realistically look at input data to make it impossible for citizens to have justice for a failed policy with excuses such as - the global financial crisis. If the crisis has shown its true face already in October 2007, and I am one of those who warned about it, there are stenograms in this house that we are talking about today, and if in April we get from the IMF in an annual review of future economic developments such as our iron frame, someone said, for further development and work, and we don't care, I expect one such authority and in a place like this to say that these and such figures must be respected. I expect that, as someone who deals with financial markets, he sees all the reasons for virtual electronic money and warns us on time, to restore the reputation of audits and regulatory bodies as professions and as bodies that are responsible for regulating greed, which has dominated both the financial markets and the reports of audit houses, which have been signed and who expect us today to believe in their word when they claim to be. NIS is worth as much or as much, not realizing that the reputation of the profession is ruined because people in key places allowed and approved such abuse and statistics, but also theories that the development of financial markets could raise one economy. I expect this expert to convince the citizens that the development of a single society must be based on savings, not on credit, that the development of a single society can be permanently possible in the rise only if it is based on the development of industrial production and on precisely defined branches that this country will subsidise, to help, as well as agriculture, one of the key factors in the development of society. My expectations aren't too high. In the image of Mr. Šoškovic we have, it may be a conflict of interest but at this point I want to see it as an advantage, a man who is also on Mr. Cvetkovic's economic team, and therefore has insight into economic policy, and into the measures of economic policy to be taken, and their relationship with the measures he is carrying out, he proposes, takes over the NBS, whose advice he is now proposing. I repeat, I expect Mr. Soskovic's presence on both the economic team and the National Bank to enable the final economic policy ties between the government and the NBS to finally be linked, and in the interest of all citizens. One can complain, as the governor complains, that today everyone is dealing with monetary policy, or the value of the exchange rate, as they used to deal with the composition of the football team, normally pesoriously saying that everyone is supposed to understand macroeconomic policy and financial flows today. For Mr. Jelasic, the message, Mr. Soskić's advice -- citizens do not have to understand about NBS' macroeconomic policy, but is the best indicator of the success of that policy in their wallet. The amount of credit war, the amount of inflation, is the best proof that anyone who leads that policy into it and understands it, or is shown that this policy is either not sufficiently designed or, worse still, that there is a lot of evidence, that this policy is being led in the interest of someone else, and not the citizens for which we exist here, both the NBS and the Council. Changes in course and performance of these policies are seen by citizens in their pockets. What I want to point out in this place is that the reportedly unsuccessful NBS policies are actually based on the high liquidity withdrawal costs that the National Bank had as a cost because it had a large foreign exchange inflow. All the senselessness of withdrawing excess liquidity, or dinars that the governor did when foreign exchanges entered the country, which is contrary to any economic theory, was justifying us by its cost-effectiveness in the long run. The long-term payoff, I quote Canz, is a little worth it because we're all dead on a long-term basis, and that's no excuse for the citizens. What is the long term in which its policy will be paid, if for the third year before, we have shown losses of the National Bank that have been measured since 2006 - 386m euros for 2006 at the 2007 final account, so 180m euros, etc., which shows that the policy is completely unsuccessful. All we have ahead of us are the costs of this policy and the losses that the National Bank has achieved. Politicians, as well as a good part of the public, do not have the skills to do this monetary governance. However, dinar weakness has also put income and budget expenditure at risk, and that should worry each and every one of us. The revenues are at risk because the weaker dinar the governor was concerned about leads to a reduction in imports, and we all know that two-thirds of VAT came from the taxation of imports. On the other hand, the reduced purchasing power of the dinar also means reduced consumption. How much less purchasing power will now be reflected in the daily consumption of each of the budget's beneficiaries, which is derived from the budget of some revenue, is also clear to all. It is clear to all of us that the budget is largely dependent on the exchange rate, but the governor is protected by what is called the National Bank's independence. This independence of the National Bank is, according to the governors' understanding, even independence from the citizens' interests, whose protector they are representing. His very important job was to deal with credit advertising and creation, both from the state and from citizens, ideal debtors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15687	Excuse me, Mrs. Tabakovic, just one second. I apologize, you do not have the obligation to sit in the O.R. as you analyze the future sitting in the House of the National Assembly, so please pay attention to Mrs Tabakovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15688	If you'll excuse me, they have some folk music, a wheel playing, they can go out and play, that's more useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15689	I ask you, out of courtesy of a woman who speaks, to the MPs, to pay attention to her colleagues. It can be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15690	During 2004 and 2005, the NBS allegedly led a stable exchange rate policy. However, this period is characterized by...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15691	Excuse me, Mr. Ognjen Mihajlovic, I'm giving a second warning, because of the folk music you play in a place where she's not fit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15692	During 2004 and 2005, we had a significant flow of foreign currency since sales, as it was until then, from privatisation and sales of state capital. There were some clues both from abroad and these, I say, the alleged surpluses of liquidity created by creating a dinar for this capital inflow, the governor pulled tail operations, where he allowed business banks to trade with the National Bank as the safest lender, giving them interest and above inflation, and thus made these huge losses. The story is that such leadership is expensive, but useful monetary policies have made some benefit to the citizens that the lost trust in the National Bank's policy, and in the exchange rate, which from 76 dinars came to some 94, 95, 96 dinars, is also lost and citizens' confidence in the stability of course, but lastly, I will use the word that reflects the situation, the governor's accomplice to policy-making, which is business banks, has left this game. Business banks have kept total money circulating in this country, three billion euros constantly in these tail operations, trading with the National Bank. Instead of placing money in loans to companies, he was directed by business banks into the trading of the National Bank -- a business bank, but today the three billion euros fell to only 900 million dinars. The dance's over. Game over. Losers are all. The business banks will no longer participate in such a game, as 80 per cent of foreign ownership in Serbia's banking system has led to the fact that the banks' banks, which are abroad, are demanding that the small capital held in the country from which the banks come. I'm saying the governor didn't expect this game to end, but he's aware that he no longer wants the state or the business bank to participate in this game, and now he complains to the public that everyone represents the blackest scenarios, aware that it's time for him to pack his bags. Packing up the governors' suitcases and selecting a new president of advisors means absolutely nothing unless the National Bank Act is changed, in which the first part of its name will really be respected, that the National Bank's policy is in the interest of the people, because all evidence in the economic area shows that monetary policy is the most choking this economy. That makes the National Bank of Serbia directly responsible. As we all depend most on this monetary policy, I expect the reforms to start with it. The role in the launch of these reforms can have a personality like Mr. Dejan Šoškovic, an impressive biography. It would be good not to prove that even the most brilliant mouse, when found in a mousehunter, has nothing to look for. I really wish him a lot of happiness, but I also wish him a lot of determination, for example in negotiations with the IMF, not to start with a question of whether or not we need two or three billion, but to draw a line on why we came to swap debt, to replace passively and seriously reform this country, which must start with the National Bank. Thank you. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15693	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search, submitted a statement in writing, with a number of MPs, by the SRS parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, since I couldn't finish my presentation, and I very little left with the things I wanted to point out to you and to distract you, you see, I would still talk about the principles of true Europeanism, of inclusion and availability, where I should speak for sure about Roma and schooling children and in rural areas, and, of course, disabled. You have this situation today, it's true from 56 to 75% the coverage of Roma children in the last five years has been achieved. And the second is the sad truth that 66% of those children leave that elementary school and never finish it. What have you done in accordance with European intensities? What did you do to make it possible for people with disabilities to be able to go home and follow classes thanks to computers? What have you done to make it possible for the diapasone of the vocational education to spread with the fainting and deafness of the eyes, thanks to the modern development of information? I'll just give the missing conclusion. We could talk a lot more here, but you don't care. You have nothing to balance your eight-year-old authority with and nothing to be proud of, and that's why you treat us restrictively. The SRS and the MPs of our party want to point out that the authoritarian regime of Boris Tadic and the puppet government of Mirko Cvetkovic, assisted by the unscrupulous parliamentary majority, leads Serbia into an increasingly difficult and social and economic crisis. The assembly majority, which has decided to choke the freedom of speech in parliament by adopting a restrictive rules of procedure, which European countries do not know, and its abuse, are harshly violating the elements and principles of true democracy. Find me a European Parliament with such rules of procedure. Where do we limit speaking in America, England, Germany, to see? It's Europe, not what you're demonstrating here. Law proposals and other acts are in the role of pretending to accept European values and are not in the interest of Serbian citizens. That's why SRS MPs can't vote for those laws of yours, which, when you bring them in, you don't. In the end, these proposals will experience the same fate. The MPs of the SRS will not vote for these false proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15695	Thank you. I give my word to the People's MP, Mr. Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15696	Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the third item of the agenda, the election of the president of the National Bank of Serbia Council, and I will refer to the current monetary-credit policy of the National Bank, the National Bank's objectives, in terms of keeping the price stability, the stability of the dinars and the overall stability of the monetary system, the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. Under the conditions of the major economic crisis, particularly the global crisis that has turned into the Republic of Serbia, has caused a particular storm, above all, in circles that care about economic and monetary stability, and also financial stability, the appointment of the National Bank Council president will create preconditions for the consolidation of this highest body of the National Bank, but the second one will retain certain relations that have so far been, which have been imputed and which are necessarily determined by the governors of the National Bank of Serbia. In fact, the National Bank Council is making the most important moves in monetary-credit policy. We in monetary-credit policy have huge problems, because the National Bank's task is to, leading monetary policy, take care of price stability, care about the course of the dinar, care about the overall stability of the financial system. If we find that last year, in order to preserve price stability, we went with certain interventions on the financial market through the interest rate policy in repo operations, through investment foreign reserves in the stability of the domestic currency and that we cut off foreign reserves and brought them somewhere to 8.2 billion euros at the end of the year, and that only in the last quarter of 2008, we spent a billion and 450m euros, and that we spent two months this year 550m euros, it speaks about the seriousness of the situation in which our coin and the entire financial and monetary system were found. How to combat, how to prevent the negative effects of the global crisis under the conditions of the domestic crisis, problems in the functioning of the domestic financial system? How to prevent foreign banks, conditionally said foreign banks, they are registered here, but with foreign shareholders' capital and we have to treat them to foreign banks, because through their interest policy, through their credit policy they have caused certain disturbances on the domestic market. The government was wiped out of the 70-acre banking system after October 5th. At the end of 2000, we had 105 banks, today we have 35, and 70 banks disappeared in liquidation and bankruptcy procedures. The problem now arises in the National Bank and the Deposit Insurance Agency, how to resolve the issue of the Belgrade Bank, which came out of bankruptcy as a positive bank, with a positive financial situation, and how to justify bank shutdown moves in 2002 when four banks were shut down. In financial terms, in monetary terms it is the biggest mistake of monetary authorities in these eight years of government, to say conditionally, DOS. This shows that we did not design a policy, or current government in 2002, when it made such a decision, that it did not respect the financial situation of these banks, that it put them out for one reason only. What reason is that? It's a warrant for the West to wipe out the domestic banking system, to insert foreign banks, to invest fresh capital and to extract capital as it suits foreign shareholders. It is only in the 12th month, which is the data that you can find on the websites of individual financial institutions, has been withdrawn from the bank's accounts, whose shareholders are abroad, and over 600m euros have been transferred. These indicators we get from the NBS, that the banking system made a profit of 16m euros and 200m euros in 2006, that the financial result was achieved in 2007, i.e. that a profit of 21 billion euros, which represents 250m euros, they are only fictitious, they are cut. Getting these banks is way bigger. It is being transferred through certain channels and the financial results do not show real conditions, so the profit is far less, and the state's revenues are reduced, which is in any case a pity for this country. We have to say that the catastrophic policy, primarily the National Bank's interest policy, which in mid-2007 began to dramatically increase the reference interest rate as relevant, as the basic rate of the NB, and thus the entire banking system went to a certain level, which simply cannot be measured by normal economic, common sense moves, which threatens normal functioning and normal settlement of interest rates by all banks, not only by foreign banks, but also by banks where the state is the owner. We entered this year with a reference interest rate of 16.50%, which is the largest reference interest rate here in the region, and probably in the world. With interest, fees and margins, the total interest rate goes between 25 and 30, while the rates in our region are between eight and 12, they are interest rates in Croatia, and somewhere in BiH to 18%. These are interest rates that we have to say are interest rates, they're harmful and they're very harmful to our citizens, by our economy and they lead to a blockade of the entire system and the functioning of a healthy and normal banking system in our country. It is through such monetary policy, through such a credit policy that the governor and the NBS have a harmful impact on the state interests and in any case, with such an interest policy and with such a set banking and financial system, that we will have adverse consequences in the emerging period. We must consider that the crisis in Serbia is present not only because of the global economic crisis. It's long-term, it's systemic, it's functional, it's in deep pores and the foundations of our system and it can't be cured by certain NB moves, without a long-term national strategy in the area of finance. Unfortunately, the government doesn't think about it. She lets the governor do what he wants. I expect nothing with this staff change, and Mr. Soskovic, who will be elected governor, will drown in the mud in which the NB is located, in which the people of Serbia and the states of Serbia are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15697	The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the proposalor or the proposalor's representative is not here. I tried to find - what is common to these two points, that is, for these two decisions and which is why someone called on the Rules of Procedure when he suggested that these two points of unity be discussed. For irony to be greater, they called for Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure, which says it is true that the points can be united in the debate, but it is said that they must be conditioned or that solutions are interrelated in them. What does the National Educational Council have to do with the NB, or the NBS Council, I haven't been able to find it, but obviously to those who suggested it, it doesn't matter. Today, from this pay phone, in the afternoon debate, there has been a lot heard, there has been a lot that answers all the questions that have been raised in this and in some of the other meetings of this Parliament and that will certainly be driven in the time ahead. The conclusion is raised and the question arises - is it meaningful and justifiable to discuss anything that should be an expression of the state policy run by the current government? Today, we are talking about the National Educational Council or about human resources within the National Educational Council, today when, as a model or a platform for a system of values in this country, they are calling on benign sects, like Quakers. We are talking today about the election of the president of the National Educational Council, and representatives of the executive government in Serbia do not think of calling on St. Sava, Justin Popovic, the bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic, all of the most and most sacred things Serbia could give and surprise. I repeat, it's pointless to talk about human resources. That's what I said when the elected members were. They questioned their own personal and human credibility by the fact that they are ready to be in a policy that is in force today in Serbia. On the other hand, what about the one elected president of the NBS Council? What kind of policy do we have in this country? What is it that monetary policy or NB can be commended for. The stability of the dinar? The stability of dinars provided by interventionism and what can be accepted as a short-term solution - for medium-term and long-term solutions this is certainly a failure and a mistake, it is certainly a problem that will, in economic terms, be brought down and just burdened. What to say about a country that today, in the time of the economic crisis, is less and less talking about public spending, and is increasingly talking about some austerity measures that may well be precedents, and are not as common a phenomenon as economic interventionism measures. We're talking about some new types and tax models today, so-called. With solidarity taxes, which we will burden the rich, spare the poor - no one is talking about production, no one is talking about fundamental changes in the fiscal, monetary, or economic policy of this country. You'll certainly have these people today-to-morrow, in voting day when it's voting day, to choose. That number or the number of 126 is inexorable, and you know -- maybe it makes sense at this point to call on it. The SRS believes that such a political attitude and a relationship with everything that weighs and burdens Serbia today will leave long-term consequences, but we are also convinced that this good majority of the people in Serbia will be able to appreciate it and that on the first exam, when it comes, you will be assessed exactly as it is today, and this is very bad and destructive for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15699	Mr. Dejan Mirovic has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15700	Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate on the state of the National Education Council, we have presented the importance of this institution. According to the laws adopted in 2003 and 2004, the National Educational Council essentially provides basic guidance in the field of education. In principle, however, we also concluded that the Council does not work in practice. That's why the president and member of the Council are relieved. In this context, the SRS reiterates that prominent academician Mihajlo Đuric, the largest living Serbian philosopher, professor of Law School and the only real dissident from the time of the Titoist regime, is the man who first publicly criticised the 1974 Constitution and who was sentenced to two years in prison for his speech, has just resigned from membership at the National Educational Council, which also speaks of the work of this council. However, the following facts are important for today's debate. Whoever is elected President of the Council will face restrictions stemming from the disastrous and pointless economic policy that is being conducted in our country and implemented by the NBJ. For example, the 2009 budget envisions around 330m euros for secondary education, and on the other hand, if, by any chance, a harmful decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU that is causing us to lose, by the recognition of the government itself, about 260m euros, could increase the funds foreseen for secondary education by as much as 80%. If these funds were to move towards basic education, the increase would be about 37%. These figures were calculated according to the official course of the National Bank from the time the budget was adopted in December 2008. Also, if a pointless decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU could be lifted, the state could finance the following ministries and institutions together: the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as the Serbian Academy of Science and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, if neoliberate and promislative dogmatics from the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of Serbia would lift a pointless decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, the state could build and provide about 60 kindergartens or 50 daily stays for children with secured transportation, new furniture for 150 schools, construction of 50 physical halls, the construction of 22 schools or the rehabilitation of 90 schools, the construction of 15 new schools and three bridges in Belgrade. So, any new president of the National Council, even if he has the best will, won't be able to do much, because the funds needed for our education are given to Brussels and the domestic tycoons. However, the new president of the National Council can at least partially facilitate such a dreary situation. He can contribute to a neutral and objective approach in the development of education guidelines, which is his task, because as you know when ideology is involved in education, then there is a phenomenon described by a leading Russian historian, Mrs Natalija Narushnickia. For example, she says in her book that Trotsky and Lenin declared Alexander Nevsky a class enemy, although he lived in the 13th century. That definition was used in textbooks during Trotsky. Today, 80 years later, in a universal study, Nevski was declared the greatest Russian of all time. This is an example of how ideology shouldn't interfere with education. Trotchistic ideology or Brussels either way. Besides, there are a lot of similarities between these two ideologies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15701	Before I give my word to Miss Marina Ragush, just to remind you that in the morning you were informed that in 1755, Serbian television was interrupted and a delayed broadcast would continue to monitor our work today. The word is Miss Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will also try to be very brief in the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group because of colleagues on the list. That this topic is very important and as far as the National Educational Council is concerned, the number of millions and 100,000 children in preschool, primary and secondary school education are, you will admit, a resource that is not to be played with. But what the SRS must present to you right now is an exclusive report that we haven't had the opportunity to hear, and it is indeed a positive example of building on very irresponsible behavior. So I will try to submit Mr Miodrag Stokic's report, otherwise a member of the National Educational Council, on 9 February 2009, in as short a time as possible and read to all of you that you are familiar with what the most sensitive part of what is called a modern democratic Serb society is. So, Mr Stokic wrote: "From May 2008 until today, six sessions of the National Educational Council were held, and they were mostly told whether or not the National Educational Council was blocked. Since the mandate ended for 21 members, and it did not stop until we were resolved by the Assembly (described by Mr Stokic). In addition, several marginal decisions have been made concerning several textbooks of the 7th and 8th grade primary school and national minority programmes. I kept my mouth shut in this period because I said everything before. I felt it was rude to take the word and the time of the esteemed colleagues at the National Educational Council to explain to them what I had already explained to them. These are attitudes that primarily relate to the state of education and the education strategy. I cannot be dissatisfied with the support of members of the Council that I have received whenever I insist that the Council address the most important issues. Yet, the Council is not a place where you have opportunities and you can spend the same words more than once if you respect others and yourself. I think it is important that I explain now these latest developments in the Council, which will have significant consequences on Serbian education and millions and 100,000 children. First, Minister Obradovic showed a certain interest in the Council, made certain statements in public, held several talks with the Council president, attended a session of the Council. Indicatively, former ministers did not show interest. Secondly, at the November Council session, Council President Jovanovic announced for the first time and unexpectedly, which I asked for two years, that it is necessary for the Council to submit to the Assembly a report on its work, a plan for next year and an opinion on the state and education. He set up a task force for all of this, although the Council has a board on the education strategy, which met one time at my request. Now it's a working group. This means Jovanovic has received a specific directive, so he is trying quickly to fulfill the task. Thirdly, at the December session of the Council, we adopt a report on the work of the Council and a plan for 2009, we give the commission the mandate to complete an opinion on the state of education and to hand it over to the Assembly. "So it happened, ladies and gentlemen, that the report, without the adoption of the National Educational Council, went to the Assembly. This is a scandal of a few excellencies. "Fourthly, at the February session of February 3, 2009, we were familiar with the decision of the Assembly Committee on Education on the refusal of our report, the reaction of members of the Council is on the move, I took the floor, I reminded the Council that a year and a half ago in Kosovo Mitrovica I warned the Council that one day it could realistically happen to be named as the culprit for the state of education, because it did not adopt a strategy. I said there'd be a lot bigger charges soon. It is precisely in the course of correspondence within the Council itself on whether to react, to publish a comment in public, to defend, to attack, to hold an extraordinary session, to a press conference, etc. Simply, members of the Council would like to defend themselves and the president because they don't feel personally guilty. I contributed that transcript to my final point of view. "Ladies and gentlemen, the final position of a member of the National Educational Council is this: "Dear colleagues, I am free to address you once again, I guess for the last time as a member of the Council, and, with apologies for taking too much of my valuable time in the past year, to present my opinion on the opinion in the shortest possible form. First, the opinion was signed by the President of the Council without the Council deciding on the opinion, nor was the text of opinion previously known to the Council. Such manipulation is inadmissible at far more insignificant levels than the level of the National Educational Council. Secondly, the text of opinion would be appropriate if it were addressed to the Assembly in late 2006, not at the end of 2008. This is how the Council was presented as some caring critic of the situation who suddenly noticed what was wrong with Serbian education. Third, it must have been some great pain that forced the president to submit his opinion to the Assembly in December 2008, when his time was not. I don't know about politics, so I don't know what this is about, so I'm building. "After such a report, which we first announced to the Serbian public in front of the SRS, when it comes to millions and 100,000 children in a modern post-taxtobar democratic Serb society, there is nothing more to be said. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, it's your relationship to something you didn't play with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15703	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, there are many more competent Members of the SRS who can speak of this matter than I do, but I have a moral obligation to speak on behalf of the municipality from which I come about this subject and in my presentation I will certainly speak about it. I just have to remind fellow MPs who are here now in the O.R. that the previous agenda, so the law on the ban on discrimination, has been reported by 37 MPs. That's good. There was one living activity, one MPs had one opinion, defended and affirmed the law, others disputed certain provisions, some disputed it perhaps in general, but that only indicates that we are part of it, that there are some important and absolutely irrelevant things for us. I have to oppose everyone's opinion that this topic is not so important, that nothing is less important than the previous one. We have one interesting thing to do about the proposal for a decision to elect a president of the National Educational Council and a proposal for a decision to elect a president of the National Bank of Serbia. As MPs took an active part in the debate on this agenda point, we could have combined 15 points of the agenda, but when Mrs. Kolundji suggested something, it had to be so. But I won't argue with this merger either, I just have to remind myself that the National Educational Council in its composition, including the president now under discussion, which will be elected in a few days, numbers a total of 42 members. You'll agree it's a mini parliament. Indeed, this advice has many important issues to decide on, as in Article 11. The 2005 Law on the Foundations of the Education System, which lists 42 members and Article 12, speaks of the responsibilities of the National Educational Council. Someone said that representatives of 12 national institutions are entering the National Education Council, in fact 18 national institutions, not only 12 groups, and even 17 representatives of different national institutions are entering the National Education Council and all areas that could make a good contribution to the development of education and education. When we say this, we have to say education. And how the previous agenda point is connected to this one that I'm talking about right now. If we push more and more seriously and put more effort into the education of our young generations, then we will have much less problems that should be sanctioned by the law that we talked about before this part of the agenda. In addition to 42 members of the council, the National Council can educate permanent and occasional bodies to assist him in his work. The president should be someone from the ranks of education, education, education experts and a candidate who has been proposed for the president of the National Education Council is Mrs Desanka Radunovic. It was proposed by the Belgrade University teacher, and I would not comment on a concrete personal solution, but I must say that this election has come from the reason why the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held at its session on 11 February this year, made a proposal for a decision on a resolution from the post of National Educational Council President Dr Aleksandr Jovanovic. Will Mrs Desanka Radunovic, together with her associates, succeed in doing what is the responsibility of the National Educational Council in a good way, including nine points, with the eighth point being discussed in several paragraphs and one of the very important jobs of the National Education Council is what she proposes textbooks and teaching tools. The law on textbooks to be printed on, and then on the basis of which teaching is performed in the education system of the Serbian state, is from 1993, and the law recognises only one publisher, which is "The Institute for the Publishing of textbooks", and the other 22 publishers, we have 23, are regulated under the rules of view for the publishing of textbooks. Then there's a lot of talk about licensing publishers. This will not improve the textbooks on the basis of which the teaching will be performed, it simply treats space, some other conditions that the publisher should meet, and in no case is talking about the quality of the textbooks on which our children would study and educate and train, because you remember some of the depraved headlines on both the bouquet and some of the other textbooks used. I believe that this National Council will pay great and serious attention to the design of textbooks and that even low-level editions, which primarily refer to children distracted by the development and members of national minorities, will be resolved in a more quality way than we have ever had. One of the very important jobs of the National Educational Council is to consider the space and equipment in which classes are conducted in Serbia. I have repeatedly pointed out from this assembly booth one problem that is happening in the municipality from which I come, that the primary school attended by 598 pupils, the primary school was, by one inspector, put out of use, the second one ordered teaching in that facility, and the pre-calculated funds needed to complete a beautiful and modern building were 33 million. You will agree, for the state of Serbia, very small funds, for a small and undeveloped municipality, such as Ljubovija, a large resource, and about 14 million more for the external arrangement around the school facility. These are the necessary means for 598 students, their teachers, and parents to send their children to school carefreely. I know of the problems that the Ministry of Education has and of the total funds allocated from the Serbian budget, 97% is intended only for the salaries of the Ministry of Education staff, and only 3% remains for all other expenses in the ministry. A very unserious relationship in the last eight or nine years has had all governments so far in the education sector. We know that more than 1% of the total social gross product at Serbia level is allocated for science in Serbia, and it is envisaged for building and resolving housing issues for our people dealing with science and research, if you do not find it difficult, take a budget and look at the 2009 budget and you will see that a total of 1,000 dinars have been allocated to solve housing problems for people who deal with science and technological improvement and education. On the other hand, we have one problem also in that community that I come from. I am not going into whether the selection of directors of the Preschool Institute "Poletarac" was made in accordance with the law or not, but it happened that in two or three months the director was being changed and all the employees and children who go to that kindergarten are now suffering because for the past two months local self-government has not paid the salaries of its work, i.e. their commitments from the budget. The ministry forwarded its share of funds to employees of the Preschool Institute "Poletar" from Ljubljana, but local self-government did not do so. As a man living in that town, I know that there are certain problems between certain political parties who exercise power in Ljubljana, but in no case should this affect employees in that preschool institution, and even less on children who attend that institution and who tomorrow need a much better way and much better to refer to the education system in Serbia and also to Serbia, that they really love it most, because we do not have another country besides Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15705	Mr. Nikola Savic has the word. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Educational National Council and the election of President of the NBS Council. Since I come from education, of course I will look back on the election of the president of the Educational National Council. For this function, as you know, Mrs. Desanka Radunovic was proposed. I must honestly admit that I don't know anything about the lady mentioned, except what was given in this biography here and for that reason I won't engage in her professional or any other quality. As a man who has worked in education for 25 years, I must remind both the public of Serbia and the future, as we will see in the voting day, the president of the Educational National Council, that there have indeed been a lot of problems and a lot of non-discipline and tendence in yesterday's election of members of the Educational National Council. Namely, the educational national council, first of all, should be one professional body, but unfortunately, like everything else, this expert body has become a political body which, in some ways, represents an extended hand of DS. So, one political advice from DS. As I said, a large number of people called me yesterday and today and expressed their dissatisfaction with the way these people were chosen and with the personal solutions found during the election of this educational council. When looking at the people selected, it could be said that this educational national council is also called the Belgrade Educational National Council. Yesterday you elected 22 members of this 42-man council, as many as there are. You couldn't even choose one member. It's about a representative of the Society of Pedagogical Physical Culture. You saw that ruse you allowed yourself during yesterday's vote. Of the 22 members you elected yesterday, 13 are from Belgrade and nine are from the rest of Serbia. Of those nine from the rest of Serbia, five are from Vojvodina, and four are from all other parts of Serbia. Of those from Vojvodina, it seems to me that the three from Novi Sad, one from Titell and one from Subotica, and of the four from the rest of Serbia, is one from the University of Nis, the second from the University of Kragujevac. You couldn't even influence it, because these are the places that formically belong to those universities, and it literally came down to only two members of the Educational National Council from the rest of Serbia being elected yesterday. So 60% of people were elected from Belgrade and 40% from the rest of Serbia. It's not like there weren't any candidates. There was a candidate. Look at this list, although I must say that this material, a proposal from members of the Educational National Council, no one has received from the SRS parliamentary group. Of course, I had to go to the archives, because it's a matter of interest to me, it's a profession, it's a job I'm doing, and that's how I got to this material. Since I come from Nis, I have to say that there were several people from Nis on the list of educational national council members and that all of these are people of integrity, respected in their environments. One such is Mr Stanisa Kostadinovic, a prominent member of the Union of Teachers of Serbia. That was their proposal, one of the most respected teachers in Serbia's south at all, and perhaps in all of Serbia, the teacher of the "Holy Sava" OS. Of course, he didn't pass, but that's why in front of that society a candidate named Mirjana Ilic, who doesn't work in education at all. So, it has nothing to do with education at all, she hasn't taken her diary into her hands in her life. She is the technical secretary of the Union of Teachers of Serbia, but she has an DS booklet and that is the best recommendation for all of this. Furthermore, the next candidate from Nis, I speak for Nis because I know the situation there, and it is probably similar in other environments, it is Mr Ljiljana Denić-Milenkovic, successful director of the Food and Chemical School of Nis and president of the Association of Professional Schools in the area. Of course, she didn't pass either, she didn't get any votes. From Nis he was also Mr Aleksandar Milojevic, a professor at the Faculty of Physical Culture in Nis, as a proposal from the Serbian Psychological Society. Of course, he didn't get any votes either. I really can't understand people who can vote against candidates in their midst. Unfortunately, Nis is not only bypassed when it comes to this educational national council, Nis is surrounded by many other things. You know that no member, not only from Nis, but from all over southern Serbia, for proposals for members of the High Council of the judiciary, and we know that the Court of Appeal in Nis covers territory, along with Kosovo Mitrovica and this northern part of Kosovo, more than half of Serbia's geographical territory. It's a policy of even regional development run by this government and this majority. Of course, in order not to be misunderstood, it is only natural that the most important institutions of one country are located in its capital. Accordingly, it is perfectly natural for the largest number of people to be from the capital, members of these institutions. But we all learned schools and we know that schools are located in all parts of Serbia, and in the most remote mountains, and beneath the Old Mountain, and beneath the dry mountain, beneath the Kopalnik, beneath Zlatibor and everywhere. Schools are neither embassies nor ministries, nor government agencies are required from Belgrade to have people in this educational national council. This was one chance where the government had the opportunity and should have shown that it really cared about Serbia's regional development. Of course, there's something else. Schools in these cities that I counted on in the territory of all Serbia also employ educators who are less often and more successful than workers in some major cities. Also, these schools are taught and implemented according to the curricula and programme that is unique for all Serbia. Of course, you didn't want to or I don't know why you didn't take care of it. That is why I would like to appeal to the future president of this National Educational Council, if the authority that has chosen this Educational Council has not taken care of territorial representation, that this president of the Educational National Council does everything to create conditions and assumptions for teaching as people, that they have the basic means of teaching and learning, even if they are not interrupted in this regard. From what I've stated in my presentation, the SRS will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15707	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. The time foreseen for SRS MPs is 18 minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in the context of this afternoon's assembly debate, my discussion will be focused on the third item of the agenda, i.e. the election of a new president of the National Bank of Serbia Council or more specifically on what awaits us in the area of economic policy and the obvious unpreparedness of the RS government to respond to the challenges posed by the global financial crisis. Namely, it is also clear that Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet, more specifically that economic part of it, sees only Serbia's chance of saving itself in co-operation with the IMF. In addition to this, the current situation concerning the latest negotiations on an arrangement with the institution mentioned. On this occasion, I'd like to present a few facts to the public. Since its founding in 1944, the IMF has played a certain role in stabilising the exchange rate and the balance of payments of member states. This role has been significant since the establishment of the IMF until the end of the 1960s. The IMF remains within its earlier and deep-rooted neoclassical economic balance model and after the breakdown of the fixed exchange rate system in 1971. However, the world and economic science have since changed significantly, and the IMF has largely held its activities firmly within its initial and now overcome model of seeing the world and economy. Not only has it become unnecessary, but it has turned at the same time, I can say, into a harmful international institution. This may best be seen in the fact that the IMF has not only been almost completely bypassed in all major ongoing international discussions on the planetary and deepest financial crisis since World War II, but at the same time the IMF has been bypassed and neglected in all the major economic policy actions that have taken place and which have been during this crisis. Otherwise, during the global financial crisis and the collapse of financial markets in autumn 2008, the IMF was a shortcut that was rarely heard during serious crisis resolution discussions and was completely absent in action to facilitate and resolve the crisis, despite the freely available 255 billion dollars in the IMF, which could be used immediately to support countries in the crisis. Now the IMF loans are down to only four billion dollars, and the net interest income is down and the profit has turned into a loss. Even the richer and more developed countries deliberately bypassed the IMF, creating a financial stability forum after the financial crisis in Asia in 1997-1998. The forum is an association of legislators and officials in charge of economic policy from developed countries. The IMF's departure is the most obvious example of the collapse and incomprehension in the conduct of an economic policy, which unfortunately also faces the state of Serbia. For example, Iceland first went to Moscow and took a large loan from Russia $5.43 billion for a small country. Hungary, which is in similar financial difficulties, has sought help from the European Central Bank with five billion euros, although the Hungarian country is outside the euro area, only that it does not have to fall into IMF claws and its prevailing model of the economy, whose consequences are both people and governments in countries where it has its fingers. It would be interesting in this light to look at the statement by the Serbian Finance Minister regarding the possible conclusion of an agreement with this institution -- the conclusion of the programme will speed up Serbia's EU accession process. There's obviously something wrong here. Serbia will welcome an agreement with the IMF on its way to the EU, while the EU is saving Hungary, as much as it can, from liking the IMF. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what should we do at this time? It is obvious that going to the door of the IMF is a reflection and a complete defeat in the exam of economic expertise and success in managing the economy. There have been various proposals, even signing an agreement with the IMF without taking credit, nothing more than a subjective relationship, and nothing more significant will be obtained in return. The current Serbia, with its about nine million inhabitants, has a debt to the abroad of nearly $30 billion, and this deficit is the outcome of the long-term economic work of those in charge of this area of our society. I will remind you that the RS budget was designed precisely in consultation with the IMF in mid-November last year, and in accordance with the condition of the then coalition agreement on raising pensions by 10% and then the world economy situation. Meanwhile, the conditions of the international economy have deteriorated significantly, but also economic movements in Serbia. From day to day, deepening the crisis, especially in the coming months, can make the proposed measures and budgets, i.e. budget audits, above all course, price, revenue and budget spending, only worse scenarios. I would remind you that the basic remarks of the SRS parliamentary group concerning the then-deposited budget were, above all, the overestimation of planned revenues in the 2008 budget rebalancing, which also affected the overestimation of revenues in 2009, then structural changes in which all the increase in expenditure was based on the growth of pension fund transfers, while, after deduction of this position, all the other expenditure remained nominally the same, and were relatively reduced by the inflation rate in 2009. What may be most important, what is most read at this time, is that there are no elements that would serve as shockers in transferring the global economic crisis to Serbia. Given that time is slowly running out, I would say, in the end, it seems to me, when it comes to what can be expected after the election and the new President of the NBS Council, as well as the overall economic monetary policy under way, that the state of Serbia, although it is being presented to the public and in some way compared to the former reforms carried out by former Prime Minister Ante Markovic, seems to me that the consequences will be the same, because they were then interrupted by some higher force which was mirrored in the collapse of the then-SFRJ. What's happening to us now, obviously, is that the alibi is found in the global economic crisis. If the financial plan of the NBS for 2009 targets the total inflation rate that would be around 9%, which is projected, the average level of the reference interest rate of 18% on the annual level and the econcentrate rate of 8.5% on the annual level, as well as the assumptions of the average exchange rate of the dinar towards the euro of 85 dinar for one euro and the US dollar of 64 dinar for one dollar, it is obvious that we will be witnessing that those on-call cynics, who, for history, are the life teacher, say that they teach us nothing from it, and this time, unfortunately, we will be right again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15709	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic. For the final word of today's day, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15710	I'm calm when you're running a session of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the situation in the education system of the Republic of Serbia is far more important than concrete personal solutions when it comes to the election of the president of the National Education Council. The situation in Serbian education is extremely difficult. If we analyze both the educational and educational components of our education system, which means pre-school, primary and secondary education, then we can conclude that the crisis has affected all the pores of our education and education system. With political opportunities and difficulties, we are discussing the election of the president of the National Educational Council at the time when the draft law on the ban on discrimination arrived in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is impossible to discuss the situation in our education system without touching those solutions or individual solutions contained in the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. The SRS is really afraid for the future of our children, given all those solutions that contain the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. We are afraid of how moral it will be with our children and youth, what values our children will believe in, and how in their practical everyday lives they will express a certain view of the world and practice certain moral principles. I also tried to show the peoples and citizens of Serbia today that the situation in Serbian society is not as simple as it is presented by, above all, certain politicians from the ruling coalition, but also certain NGOs. What is happening today in Serbia is an extraordinary attack on the moral beliefs of every man in Serbia, especially young people, especially children and youth. Today, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic claimed that there is no haranga against the Serbian Orthodox Church and that the MPs of the SRS make that up. I tried, without any personal hatred for Mr. Micunovic, to prove that it was not, but I was prevented from it. I hope that Mr. Novakovic will not practice inquisitor methods in conducting the session of the National Assembly and whenever he heads the session of the National Assembly, I am calm that the rights of all MPs will be maximumly guaranteed. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the question -- what kind of world will young people live in Serbia tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when you pass a law on the ban on discrimination, if you say on a gay organisation site called "Querria" the patriarch Serbian Mr. Paule shows, I apologize to the ladies, but these are the painful facts that we MPs must bring out for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, Mr. Paule is shown with lace underpants on his head, Serbian bishops are called fascists. On the site "Quiria" is published a text whose title from a civil culture I will not quote here, but in this text it is described that one of the leaders of this homosexual organization, a certain Predrag Azdajković video, apologize to the ladies once more, but it says so, check if you don't believe me, he saw the full body of St. George and it is sacred to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15711	Despite the compliments you have given me, I warn you to return to the topic, and this is a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the National Educational Council and a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the NBS Council and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15712	Mr. Novakovic, I know that you and I have the same task, and that is to defend the dignity of the National Assembly and the citizens who elected us to this House, and that is why I understand your suggestion very well-meaningly, and I will continue to explain why this is important for our education system. You see, Mr. Novakovic, words in Serbian should be interpreted not only superficially, but in their deep meaning. Look at these Democrats who lead Serbia into the EU, as soon as a man says something, they rebel. Should we be quiet? If we have to keep our mouths shut, I'm gonna keep quiet for 10 minutes, keep these people quiet. I really don't insult anyone, I don't yell, I don't know what the problem is. So, Mr. Novakovic, words in Serbian should be interpreted in their deep meaning. We're talking about the education system. A great Orthodox thinker, Saint Kirilo of Jerusalem, said that he who is enlightened by the holy spirit was enlightened. In that context, what I'm saying right now is really serious about the future of our children and youth. This is why I'm saying this. Because this site "Kvirija" is funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. They're protesting again. I don't really know what the problem is, am I telling the truth, am I insulting someone? Gentlemen, you voted for that budget. The Republic of Serbia's budget is funded by a homosexual organisation called "Quiria", with some 256 thousand dinars. Now I'm telling you the facts, no hate, I'm not chasing anyone, I'm not insulting anyone. I'm sorry about people who do things like this. I think they really need one help, understand, I'm not looking for any lynch, but I'm telling you what things kids and youth face today when they open an Internet presentation of this organisation that is unfortunately funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's extremely serious stuff. Maybe it doesn't matter to you, it matters to me. It matters to me because I'm the father of little children. If nothing else, let's ignore and which foreigners we belong to, I fear for the future of my own children. Let me say something on the subject. On this site financed from the Serbian budget, check, if you don't believe me... (President: Mr. Martinovic, that is not the point, that is the point. It's not about the Internet, it's not about the budget, it's not about the rebalancing that's coming to us... Mr. Novakovic, and that's how it's done. Allow me. (President: I will allow, but be... Mr. Novakovic, I confess that I am not a man of some divine mind like those of the ruling coalition. I'm trying to explain what I think needs to be explained the way I know it and know it. I know these DS guys know a lot better than I do. What I'm going to do, I'm trying as hard as I can in my limited intellectual capabilities. So, on this site, please, Mr. Novakovic, I hope you won't interrupt me, and this is important to you, I know that you are a humanist, you have these texts: pedophilia in an Orthodox way, Adventure Tom Thumbs, I deny it. On the Serbian Orthodox blog, which is located on the site B92 members of the "Quiria" and the mentioned Predrag Azdajković publishes photos of condoms placed in the form of crosses, sexual aids in the form of a Saint-Save cross. They're asking for a department of homosexuals to perform their orgy at the temple of St. Sava on Vracar. Why am I saying this? Because the state of Serbia, just you laugh, everything is funny to you, financing something like this. This is a disgrace to you who voted for the budget. At the same time, the daily "Politika" published a text last December explaining the case of a young mathematician from Belgrade, a student of mathematical high school, I think his name is Teodor von Burg, who did not receive adequate funds from the Youth Fund. Mathematical genius, there's no money for him. We'll see, we'll make a committee to determine the facts, etc. From the 2009 Serbian state budget, in a year that is extremely difficult, in which thousands of people will lose their jobs, in a year in which people raise their hands because they cannot feed themselves and their family, the state of Serbia is funding such abominations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15713	Thank you. The time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group has expired. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, or the promoter? Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15714	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, most of the debate here still referred to the National Educational Council and I believe it shows that we all share the feeling that it is an extremely important institution. Of course, some problems are mentioned here, which are essential to the future not only of the young generation, but also of the future of the whole society, because what the future of young people will depend on and what kind of society we will have. Many of these things that are mentioned here, although it may have seemed to be of no direct concern to the National Educational Council, I can understand that they are part of the issues that are related to what education system our children will be educated in and, after all, in what society they will grow up in. It just shows that it's important and that we all share great expectations in relation to the National Educational Council and the president we're about to choose, that with full awareness of what their mission is and what they're expected to do in the best interests of the particular area that we all think is of paramount importance here, because it concerns the largest number of people. So everyone is in some way interested in the question and the problems of education, because they are not just a question of education programmes. They are a question of the formation of a society where we all feel that we belong equally to it, regardless of differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-19-0.u15715	Thank you, too. I am concluding a single joint search on the proposal for a decision to elect a president of the National Educational Council and a proposal for a decision to elect a chairman of the National Bank of Serbia's council. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. This is the end of today. I'm scheduled to resume the session on Monday, March 23rd, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
